SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Bonviva. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) is a common disorder affecting a large number of women above 
the  age  of  50  years.  It  is  currently  defined  as  a  systemic  skeletal  disease  characterised  by  low  bone 
mass  and  micro-architectural  deterioration  of  bone  tissue,  leading  to  enhanced  bone  fragility  and  a 
consequent increase in fracture risk. 
World Health Organisation have proposed diagnostic criteria of the disease based on measurements of 
Bone  Mineral  Density  (BMD)  expressed  as  T-scores,  i.e.  the  number  of  standard  deviations  (SD) 
difference  from  the  mean  value  of  healthy  premenopausal  women.  A  BMD  T-score  below  –2.5  is 
diagnostic for osteoporosis. T-scores between –1 and –2.5 define osteopenia, while a T-score above –1 
is considered normal. 
Vertebral  fractures  are  the  most  common  osteoporotic  fractures  and  are  associated  with  increased 
morbidity and deterioration of the quality of life of the patients. In addition, a number of studies have 
demonstrated an increased mortality in patients with vertebral fractures. About two thirds of vertebral 
fractures  do  not  come  to  clinical  attention.  However,  these  morphometric  vertebral  deformities  (as 
opposed to clinical vertebral fractures) adversely affect aspects of the quality of life of the patients and 
they  are  strong,  independent  risk  factor  for  new  vertebral,  hip  and  other  osteoporotic  fractures.  Hip 
fractures, which usually occur in older women, are associated with the highest mortality and long-term 
disability.  
In osteoporosis there is an imbalance between bone formation and bone resorption resulting in bone 
loss with every bone remodelling cycle. When this is accompanied by an increase in the activation of 
new  bone  remodelling  units  (high  bone  turnover)  more  bone  will  be  lost  within  the  same  period.  In 
addition,  this  will  adversely  affect  the  structure  of  the  trabeculae  and  will  consequently  increase 
further the risk of fracture. This pathophysiological background provides the rationale for the use of 
agents that reduce bone resorption and bone turnover in the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. 
Such  agents  include  estrogens,  calcitonin,  raloxifene  and  the  bisphosphonates.  Bisphosphonates 
decrease osteoclastic bone resorption and reduce the rate of bone turnover without a direct effect on 
bone formation. They are classified into nitrogen-containing (such as alendronate and risedronate) and 
non-nitrogen containing (such as etidronate) bisphosphonates. The presence of the nitrogen atom in N-
bisphosphonates  considerably  increases  their  anti-resorptive  potency  and  determines  their  molecular 
mechanism of action. 
Ibandronate, a nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate, is intended to be used orally in a daily dose of 2.5 
mg for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. 
It  inhibits  osteoclast  activity  by  suppression  of  farnesyl  pyrophosphate  synthase,  an  enzyme  of  the 
mevalonate  pathway.  This  leads  to  a  reduced  synthesis  of 
isoprenoid  geranylgeranyl 
pyrophosphate  and  subsequently  of  the  prenylation  of  small  GTP-binding  proteins  that  are  essential 
for  the  integrity  of  the  cytoskeleton  of  the  osteoclasts  and  for  intracellular  signalling.  In  long-term 
studies  in  relevant  animal  models,  ibandronate  was  shown  to  reduce  the  rate  of  bone  turnover,  to 
increase bone mass and to maintain or increase bone strength with no adverse effects on bone quality 
or biomechanical competence at doses much higher than those intended for human use.  
An  intravenous  formulation  of  ibandronate  is  currently  registered  in  Europe  for  the  treatment  of 
malignancy-associated  hypercalcaemia  in  patients  with  or  without  bone  metastases  and  for  the 
prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. 
the 
The treatment and prevention trials were conducted in accordance with the CPMP Note for Guidance 
on  Postmenopausal  Osteoporosis  in  Women  (CPMP/EWP/552/95  rev1),  both  in  terms  of  the 
characteristics of patients studied and the endpoints used to assess efficacy, with the exception of the 
BMD inclusion criterion which specified a lumbar spine BMD T-score below – 2.0 in one of the Phase 
3  studies.  Since  this  programme  was  aimed  at  an  approval  in  the  US  and  Europe,  the  more 
conservative inclusion criterion of T-score below –2.0 was chosen for the phase 3 study. The applicant 
1/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
has performed a separate analysis of the primary endpoint (incidence of new morphometric vertebral 
fractures) in those patients with a baseline BMD T-score below -2.5, in line  with the  current CPMP 
guideline.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Film-coated tablet containing the active substance in a core formulation which also contains lactose as 
the  chief  matrix  ingredient  together  with  microcrystalline  cellulose,  crospovidone,  povidone,  stearic 
acid and colloidal silica. The film-coat consists of a conventional Opadry/macrogol 6000 mixture. 
Tablets are packed in standard blister packs (PVC covered with a heat-seal coated Aluminium lidding 
foil). 
Active substance 
Ibandronic  acid  INN  is  present  in  the  tablets  as  the  sodium  salt  monohydrate.  The  active  substance 
quality and the batch control test  procedures  are identical to  what have already been  approved for the 
concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  (1  mg/1  ml,  2  mg/2  ml  and  4  mg/4  ml),  which  are  currently 
approved in the EU.  Similarly, the stability of the active substance has been well demonstrated. 
Other ingredients 
The  other  ingredients  of  the  formulation,  as  listed  above,  comply  with  PhEur  monographs  where 
relevant. There are no ingredients which give rise to concerns related to TSE. 
Product development and finished product 
Several  oral formulations  have  been  used  during  the  clinical  development.  A capsule  formulation was 
used in early Phase I and II studies.  Film-coated tablets were subsequently used in the remainder of the 
Phase  I/II studies. The tablet  formulation  used in the  pivotal  Phase III trials is  the  same as  the tablets 
intended for marketing. The objective has been to develop a rapidly dissolving tablet, and this has been 
facilitated by the properties of the active substance. It is used as a fine crystalline powder and is freely 
soluble  in  water,  so  the  tablets  dissolve  very  rapidly  in  aqueous  media:  Dissolution  >90%  after  15 
minutes. The film-coating has no effect on the dissolution rate.  
Two  polymorphs  of  the  drug  substance  have  been  identified.  Both  polymorphic  forms  have  similar 
solubility and intrinsic dissolution properties, therefore no effect of the crystal modification on the in vivo 
drug release is expected. 
The  manufacturing  processes  involve  conventional  operations:  Spray  granulation,  drying,  sieving, 
blending, tablet compressing and film-coating. The manufacturing processes have been demonstrated to 
be robust and produce tablets of consistent quality. 
Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specification  at  release  includes  tests  for  assay,  uniformity  of  content, 
disintegration,  and  microbiological  aspects.  Degradation  products  are  part  of  the  stability-testing 
program. The control tests comply with Ph. Eur. where relevant, and the specification is in line with ICH 
Q6A.The limits for degradation products are in accordance with ICH Q3B. 
Full  details  have  been  provided  for  6  batches  of  the  finished  product.  They  all  comply  with  the 
specifications, and show good uniformity. 
Stability of the Product 
A  total  of  6  batches  have  been  studied  under  ICH  conditions  (long  term  and  accelerated)  originating 
from the Mannheim production site; (3) and the Basel production site (3); one batch was photostability 
tested. Parameters investigated included appearance, disintegration, dissolution, assay, related substances 
and  microbiological  contamination.  Results  indicated  that  the  tablets  are  stable;  also  they  are  not 
sensitive  to  light.  The  small  variations  observed  can  be  attributed  to  analytical  method  variations. 
2/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
However,  arising  from  a  change  in  production  from  Mannheim  to  Basel,  only  short-term  data  were 
available  from  the  Basel  site  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion.  Furthermore,  since  there  were  doubts 
about the comparability of the two datasets, it was decided to restrict the shelf life until further stability 
data were available. In general, no significant changes were observed in product quality during storage 
in the short-term, and the shelf-life as defined in the SPC is justified by the data available at the time 
of the CPMP opinion. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
This is a simple standard formulation of a soluble substance resulting in a rapidly dissolving tablet. 
The purity of the active substance and the control of the manufacturing process and finished product 
indicate reliable reproducibility of the product and should indicate in turn a reliable performance in the 
clinic. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Bisphosphonates are stable analogues of naturally occurring pyrophosphates. They are adsorbed onto 
mineral  surfaces  in  bone  and  are  actively  taken  up  by  endocytic  osteoclasts.  Bisphosphonates  with 
nitrogen-substituted side chains such as pamidronate, alendronate, risedronate and ibandronate, inhibit 
the  biosynthesis  of  isoprenoid  compounds.  The  latter  are  essential  for  the  biosynthesis  of  important 
signalling  proteins,  the  disruption  of  which  leads  to  loss  of  osteoclast  activity  and  induction  of 
apoptosis.  Bisphosphonates  also  reduce  osteoclastic  activity  through  an  indirect  action  mediated  by 
osteoblasts. The relative importance of these two mechanisms is unknown. In either case the end result 
is a reduction in bone resorption and turnover. 
• 
In vitro studies  
In  in  vitro  studies,  ibandronate  was  found  to  be  a  potent  inhibitor  of  osteoclast  activity,  with  IC50 
values in the low nanomolar range. In vitro and single-dose in vivo comparisons indicate that it is 3-10 
times as potent as alendronate.  
• 
In vivo studies  
Primary  pharmacodynamics  has  been  investigated  in  vivo  in  ovariectomised  (OVX)  or  ovario-
hysterectomised  (OHX)  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys,  which  are  well-established  models  of  human  post-
menopausal  osteoporosis.  There  were  a  total  of  four  prevention  studies,  two  in  rats  and  one  each  in 
dogs and monkeys, as well as a treatment study in rats and dogs. In all three species, ibandronate dose-
dependently  inhibited  or  reversed  OVX-induced  decreases  in  bone  mass  and  strength  in  cancellous 
bone, with less pronounced effects on cortical bone, over an interval ranging from 0.2 to 25 µg/kg/day 
s.c. The optimum dose was 1 µg/kg/day s.c. in rats, 1.2-4.1 µg/kg/day s.c. in dogs and 30 µg/kg/month 
i.v. in monkeys, with a trend towards impairment of bone formation in dogs receiving ≥ 4.1 µg/kg/day.  
In both rats and dogs, s.c. and p.o. bioavailability was ≈ 100% and 1%, respectively. In growing rats, a 
single s.c. dose of 48 µg/kg inhibited bone resorption by 50% and increased calcium uptake by 10 mg 
and urinary excretion by 2 mg, with the balance being accounted for by increased bone deposition.  
Up to 30 µg/kg/day s.c. had little or no effect on bone mass in very old, intact female rats, whereas in 
growing  rats  bone  mass  and  strength  were  increased  by  3-15  mg/kg/day  p.o.  with  no  clear  dose-
relationship. Likewise, 1 µg/kg/day s.c. to 10 mg/kg/day p.o. for 3-12 months had no effect on bone 
mass  or  strength  in  full-grown  intact  dogs.  Thus,  ibandronate  increases  bone  mass  and  calcium 
balance in growing animals, but not in  full-grown, intact adults.  There was no adverse effect on the 
repair of cortical or cancellous bone lesions in dogs exposed to twice the proposed human dose. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
Secondary  pharmacodynamics  has  addressed  the  effect  of  ibandronate  in  models  of  tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia, for which the drug substance was approved in 1996. Studies on bone resorption and 
hypercalcaemia induced by retinoids in thyro-parathyroid-ectomised (TPX) rats demonstrated a linear 
dose-response  relationship  over  an  interval  from  0.0015-0.15  mg/kg,  which  includes  the  approved 
maximum  human  therapeutic  dosage  of  0.07-0.1  mg/kg  by  i.v.  infusion.  In  hypercalcaemia  and 
3/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
hypercalciuria  induced  by  parathyroid  hormone-related  protein  (PTHrP)  in  TPX  rats,  ibandronate 
inhibited  osteolysis  but  had  no  effect  on  the  PTHrP-induced  increase  of  renal  tubular  absorption  of 
calcium. As expected, it also prevented the parathyroid-hormone-mediated increase in bone resorption 
in  partially  nephrectomised  rats.  In  rodents  inoculated  with  osteolytic  neoplastic  cells  of  human  or 
murine origin, ibandronate consistently reduced the number and size of osteolytic bone lesions. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  revealed  no  adverse  effects  on  the  central  nervous,  cardiovascular, 
respiratory or gastrointestinal system at exposures well above those anticipated in humans. In rats and 
dogs administered 5-20 mg/kg p.o., there was a decrease in urinary volume and/or the Na+ /K+ ratio. 
Further  investigation  to  elucidate  adverse  effects  on  the  kidney  was  conducted  during  the  toxicity 
studies.  
Non-clinical pharmacodynamic interaction studies were not conducted. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
Although the exact mechanism of action of bisphosphonates is unknown, the final  result is a reduction 
in bone resorption and turnover. 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  demonstrate  that  ibandronate  is  a  potent 
inhibitor  of  osteoclast  activity,  and  inhibits  or  reverses  OVX-induced  decreases  in  bone  mass  and 
strength in cancellous bone, with less pronounced effects on cortical bone. 
Safety pharmacology studies revealed no adverse effects on the relevant systems. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Because ibandronate, like other bisphosphonates, is almost exclusively (>98%) taken up by calcified 
tissue,  the  pharmacological  effects  of  ibandronate  cannot  be  considered  directly  related  to  blood 
levels.  For  this  reason,  it  is  argued  that  single  and  repeat  dose  pharmacological  effects  are  better 
assessed  by  measuring  the  drug  concentrations  in  bone  than  in  plasma,  and  that  tissue  distribution 
studies are more relevant to the mechanism of action than the plasma profiles.  
The methods of analysis used to study tissue distribution are appropriate. Liquid scintillation counting 
(LSC)  of  14C-ibandronate  in  various  tissues  was  used  both  at  single  and  repeated  administration 
Autoradiography  was  used  for  animals  dosed  with  14C-ibandronate  for  1  and  7  days.  An  enzyme  –
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to measure ibandronate in serum and urine. 
Bioavailability 
In rats and dogs, ibandronate was shown to have an oral bioavailability of about 1%. Intake of food 
and calcium concomitant with oral dosing in rats reduced the bioavailability further, as compared to 
rats fasted at the time of dosing.  
Various in vivo studies in rats and dogs and in vitro studies in rat and human liver microsomes and 
duodenum  preparations  all  indicate  that  the  drug  is  not  metabolised  anywhere  in  the  body  except 
possibly  for  a  very  small  fraction  in  the  duodenum.  Once  entered  into  the  circulation,  it  is  rapidly 
removed by liver and kidney uptake, followed by a relatively slow release and long-term binding to 
the bone.  The binding of  ibandronate to plasma  proteins and blood cells is rather low,  indicating an 
easy diffusion into the extravascular space. 
Tissue distribution and clearance after repeated administration of ibandronate are comparable to those 
found after single administration.  
The lack of calculation of clearance parameters in rats is justified since clearance parameters could not 
be  reliably  measured  in  rats.  In  dogs  given  0.01  mg/kg  ibandronate  s.c.,  41.9  %  of  the  dose  was 
excreted in urine after 24 hours. Volume of distribution was 7.3 l/kg, indicating penetration into a deep 
compartment (bone, liver and kidney). Excretion is almost exclusively through urine.  
Serum kinetics was determined in OVX Cynomolgus monkeys given 10, 30 and 150 µg/kg/month i.v. 
for 16 months. Exposure was linear in relation to dose, thus clearance mechanisms were not saturated. 
Distribution 
Tissue  distribution  following  a  single  i.v.  administration  was  studied  in  rats.  They  were  given  0.1 
mg/kg  14C-ibandronate  i.v.,  50%  of  the  dose  was  found  in  calcified  tissue  after  2  and  24  hours. 
4/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radioactivity  was  17  to  38  times  higher  in  calcified  tissue  than  in  non-calcified  tissue.  Relative 
distribution of radioactivity was bone>liver>kidneys>spleen. 
Excretion via faeces was low and biliary excretion of ibandronate was very low.  
Because of the intended long-term administration of ibandronate, accumulation of the compound was 
studied in rats treated for 7 days with 0.1 mg/kg 14C-ibandronate and autoradiographed 2 and 24 hours 
after  the  last  administration.  The  scans  clearly  showed  that  bone  tissue  is  the  main  target  for 
accumulation.  The  tissues  ranked  in  order  of  amount  of  radioactivity  were:  bone  tissue>>>kidney 
(renal  cortex)  >liver,  faeces  and  spleen.  There  appeared  to  be  a  higher  radioactivity  in  the  kidney 
(renal cortex) after repeated dosing than after single dosing.  
LSC  distribution  studies  in  rats  given  14C-ibandronate  i.v.  for  7  days  showed  that  concentrations 
increased  4-7  fold  in  calcified  tissues  and  kidneys  during  repeated  administration.  Other  organs 
showed only little (2-fold) or no accumulation.  
Ibandronate concentration in bone  
Ibandronate concentration in bone was determined in rats after 2 years daily oral dosing of 3,7 or 15-
mg/kg  ibandronate.  The  uptake  of  ibandronate  was  dose-dependent  and  linear,  and  there  was  no 
evidence of skeletal saturation. This indicates a normal bone physiology after lifelong administration 
in doses far in excess of the therapeutic dose.  
In  aged  OVX  rats  treated  for  12  months  the  concentration  of  ibandronate  in  bones  was  dose-
dependent, and uptake of drug by the bone was linear with the dose.   
In  OVX  cynomolgus  monkeys  treated  for  16  months,  the  ibandronate  concentration  appeared  to  be 
dose-dependent in a non-linear fashion. The non-linearity was explained by the suppression of OVX-
induced bone turnover. 
Protein binding and drug interactions 
Different studies point out that the binding of ibandronate to plasma proteins and blood cells is rather 
low. This implies an easy diffusion of the product into the extravascular space. Furthermore, this level 
of binding is unlikely to result in drug interactions. 
No enzyme induction took place in the liver of ibandronate treated rats, and ibandronate did not inhibit 
any  of the  major cytochrome P450 iso-enzymes in  human liver  microsomes, suggesting  that hepatic 
drug-drug interaction is unlikely in man. 
Other pharmacokinetic studies 
Bisphosphonates  have  a  high  affinity  to  the  hydroxyapatite  crystals  in  the  bones,  and  therefore 
investigations on placenta transfer at the time of foetal bone mineralisation are of interest. The results 
of  the  placental  transfer  study  indicate  a  low,  however  existent  foeto-placental  transfer  of  14C-
ibandronate.  
The transfer of radioactivity into the milk was studied after a single i.v. administration of 0.08 mg/kg 
14C-ibandronate  to  lactating  rats.  This  study  demonstrated  the  presence  of  low  levels  of  ibandronic 
acid in the milk following administration. 
Adequate  information  with  regard  to  these  issues  has  been  included  in  section  4.6  of  the  SPC. 
However,  given  the  intended  treatment  population  of  post-menopausal  women,  the  information 
obtained  on  placental  transfer,  transfer  into  milk  and  also  reproduction  toxicity  (see  later)  does  not 
create great concern in this application. 
Toxicology 
The high affinity of bisphosphonates to bone mineral along with their low potential to penetrate soft 
tissue, due its high molecular polarity, explains their relatively good safety profile. Systemic toxicity is 
generally considered related to the uptake of bisphosphonate complexes by tissue macrophages. Other 
toxic  specific  effects  are  those  related  to  the  pharmacological  effect  of  the  bisphosphonates.  These 
include increased trabecular bone mass, decreased serum calcium and phosphorus levels, and reduced 
bone marrow space leading to haematological changes.   
The applicant has performed a comprehensive toxicology programme in mice, rats and dogs.   
Single dose toxicity 
5/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These studies have been carried out in mice, rats, and dogs. 
Acute toxicity was seen only at high oral doses (LD50 in mice=1494 mg/kg, LD50 in rats = 811 mg/kg). 
This is about 600-fold and 300-fold greater than the intended daily maximum oral human dose. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated-dose toxicity studies were carried out in rats and dogs. 
The  primary  target  organs  were  kidney,  and  to  a  lesser  extent,  liver,  lung  and  gastrointestinal  tract. 
Findings  in  these  organs  were  dose  and  time  dependent.  Slightly  decreased  serum  calcium  and 
phosphorus values, and decreased red blood cell count due to extension of trabecular bone mass at the 
expense  of  bone  marrow  space  were  seen  at  all  dose  levels,  and  therefore  NOELs  could  not  be 
established.  
This information comes from previously submitted studies. In addition, a toxicokinetic study and long-
term  studies  as  would  be  required  to  support  the  osteoporosis  indication  have  been  submitted.  The 
duration of these studies rangedbetween 2 weeks and 12 months, as expected for a product intended 
for  chronic  use.  These  studies  did  not  reveal  any  unexpected  findings  compared  to  previously 
conducted studies. 
The  main kidney findings were tubular changes, i.e. tubulonephrosis. Kidney lesions appeared to be 
irreversible at high long-term dosing, whereas some reversibility was seen at lower dose levels in rats 
and dogs. Liver toxicity was only seen at very high dose levels during long-term administration. 
In  rats  and  dogs,  gastrointestinal  disorders  were  seen  only  at  the  high,  lethal  dose  levels,  i.e.  well 
above the nephrotoxic dose level.  
Bone  alterations  and  the  related  secondary  alterations  in  bone  marrow  and  spleen  also  continued  at 
recovery in both rats and dogs.  
In  the  rat,  abnormal  respiration  was  seen  at  the  highest  toxic  dose  levels.  In  the  dog,  respiratory 
disorders  were  only  seen  at  lethal  doses.  At  lethal  chronic  doses,  other  organ  toxicity  like  testicular 
atrophy and thymus involution were seen in the dog. All these effects were seen at very high and thus 
irrelevant chronic dose levels. 
ECGs  were  recorded  in  all  repeat  dose  dog  studies.  No  changes  in  heart  rate,  wave  form,  wave 
amplitude or wave intervals could be attributed to ibandronate treatment. The risk of QT/QTc interval 
prolongation is considered unlikely for the recommended dosages of ibandronate for osteoporosis 
Toxicokinetics  were  measured  for  most  chronic  toxicity  studies,  but  calculations  were  hampered  by 
very  high  variability  of  blood  exposure  in  animals  and  humans  and  analytical  limitations.  Oral 
bioavailability, when assessed from the excretion in urine, was 0.9% in dogs and 0.6% in humans. In 
fasted rats, oral bioavailability was about 1% as assessed from the pharmacodynamics studies on bone. 
The similarity of oral bioavailability in animals and humans suggest that comparison of oral doses can 
be a relevant estimate for safety margins in addition to the exposure data based on AUC values.   
The  calculated  safety  margins  for  chronic  treatment  were  based  on  the  no-observed-adverse  effect 
level, NOAEL, defined as the highest dose without liver or kidney findings. These safety margins give 
no special reason for concern for the human clinical use. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies 
None of the in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies indicated any genotoxic potential of ibandronate. 
None of the three oral carcinogenicity studies (one in rats and two in mice) indicated any carcinogenic 
potential of ibandronate. 
Reproduction toxicity 
In  the  reproduction  toxicity  programme,  ibandronate  was  found  to  reduce  sperm  concentration  in 
males  and,  in  females,  to  decrease  the  number  of  corpora  lutea  and  increase  pre-implantation  loss. 
When  given  orally,  it  was  foetotoxic,  but  not  teratogenic  in  rats.  However,  as  foetal  effects  were 
limited to variations with a high spontaneous occurrence and there was no foetotoxicity in an i.v. rat 
study or in the rabbit, ibandronate is considered unlikely to be a direct toxicant. In offspring exposed 
in  utero  and  through  the  milk,  there  were  no  direct  effects  on  growth,  behaviour  or  reproductive 
performance.  Dystocia  in  rat  dams  and  teeth  abnormalities  in  their  pups  could  be  attributed  to 
disturbances in maternal calcium metabolism. None of these effects are a cause for concern, as they 
6/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurred at exposures at least 20 times higher than the proposed human dose and as the drug product 
is intended for use in postmenopausal women. 
Local tolerance 
Ibandronate was a severe irritant when injected paravenously or s.c. in rats and rabbits and corrosive 
in  an  acute  skin  irritation  test  in  rabbits.  Although  these  routes  are  irrelevant  to  oral  administration, 
they indicate a potential to cause irritation or burns to the oesophagus and gastric mucosa. Appropriate 
warnings to this effect are included in Section 4.4. of the SPC. 
Environmental risk assessment 
The drug substance was tested for acute toxicity to aquatic organisms, inhibition of activated sludge 
and biodegradability according to OECD guidelines. It was concluded that exposure levels of concern 
to the environment are not to be expected. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  are  limited  to  the  measurment  of  drug  concentration  in  bone  and  other 
tissue  distribution  studies.  This  approach  is  considered  acceptable  since  ibandronate  is  almost 
exclusively  taken  up  by  calcified  tissue,  and  therefore  the  pharmacological  effects  are  not  directly 
related to blood levels. 
The  oral  bioavailability  of  ibandronate  in  rats  and  dogs  is  about  1%,  and  is  further  reduced  by 
concomitant  intake  of  food  and  calcium  in  rats.  There  is  no  indication  that  ibandronate  is 
metabolisedin any species after in vivo administration 
The binding of ibandronate to plasma proteins and blood cells is low, and therefore unlikely to result 
in drug interactions. 
In short the pharmacokinetic studies submitted are generally adequate and give an adequate overview. 
The toxicology programme identified the kidney, and to a lesser extent liver, lung and gastrointestinal 
tract as primary target organs. Findings in these organs were dose and time dependent. The calculated 
safety  margins,  based  on  the  no-observed-adverse  effect  level  (NOAEL),  give  no  special  reason  for 
concern for the human clinical use. 
In  conclusion  for  the  toxicology  package,  no  unexpected  toxic  effects  have  been  revealed  with  the 
newly performed studies. There is no increased preclinical concern for the given indication.   
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The  applicant,  Roche  Pharmaceuticals,  applied  for  a  marketing  authorisation  (via  the  centralised 
procedure)  for  ibandronic  acid,  for  the  indication  “treatment  and  prevention  of  osteoporosis  in  post-
menopausal  women”.  Ibandronic  acid,  under  the  trade  name  Bondronat  is  currently  marketed  in  the 
EU for the treatment of hypercalcaemia related to malignant disease and for the prevention of skeletal 
events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. 
In total, 1585 patients were exposed to the recommended dose of 2.5 mg daily. The dose and dosing 
interval selected for the pivotal studies are based on the two phase 2 studies MF4348, and MF4433. In 
support of the application of daily treatment with 2.5 mg ibandronate, two main trials were performed, 
MF  4411  supporting  the  application  for  daily  orally  administered  ibandronate  for  the  treatment  of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis and MF4499 supporting the daily administration of 2.5 mg Ibandronate 
ibandronate for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis. MF4411 was a multi-center, double-
blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised,  phase  3  fracture  study  carried  out  in  North  America  and 
Europe and MF4499 was a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, dose finding, 
phase  2-3  study.  Additionally,  a  supportive  phase  3  study,  MF4491  for  the  treatment  of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis with BMD as the primary endpoint was also performed. This study was 
a multi-center, open-label, randomised study using  2.5 mg ibandronate administered orally with either 
30 min or 60 min post-dose fast during 12 months  
Clinical pharmacology 
7/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  pharmacology  of  ibandronate  has  been  studied  in  healthy  male  volunteers,  in  healthy 
postmenopausal  women,  in  postmenopausal  women  with  osteoporosis,  in  patients  with  varying 
degrees of renal impairment and in patients with metastatic bone disease. A total of about 700 subjects 
in 24 clinical pharmacology studies, one phase 2 study and from clinical pharmacology assessments 
within two therapeutic trials, contributed to the clinical pharmacology data. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic  parameters  related  to  the  efficacy  of  bisphosphonates  are  reflected  in  markers  of 
bone  metabolism.  A  reduction  in  markers  of  bone  resorption  is  the  earliest  effect  that  can  be 
demonstrated, while effects on markers of bone formation are, by virtue of nature, delayed. 
(cid:131)  Mechanism of action 
Ibandronic  acid  is  a  nitrogen-containing  bisphosphonate,  which  exerts  its  action  by  inhibiting  the 
osteoclast activity though inhibition of the enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase. Subsequently, the 
prenylation  of  GTP-binding  proteins  that  are  essential  to  the  integrity  of  the  cytoskeleton  of  the 
osteoclasts and for intracellular signalling, is inhibited. The net result is a decrease in osteoclastic bone 
resorption and a reduction in the rate of bone turnover. In vitro and in animal models, ibandronate has 
been shown to be more potent than other bisphosphonates, such as alendronate and risedronate. 
Dynamic studies:  
Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis 
The general pattern observed is to a reasonable degree consistent: a dose dependent inhibition of the 
parameters of bone resorption a slight and clinically not significant decrease in serum calcium values 
with  a  compensatory  transient  increase  in  PTH  levels.  In  study  MF  4348  urinary  CTX,  the  best 
predictor  of  bone  resorption,  was  suppressed  dose  dependently  reaching  a  minimum  about  three 
months  after  initiation  of  therapy.  This  suppression  remained  consistent  throughout  therapy  and 
returned  to  baseline  values  within  12  months  of  discontinuation.  Serum  osteocalcin,  the  primary 
marker of bone formation, levels declined dose dependently reaching a level of about 40 per cent of 
baseline  after  6  months  of  treatment.  In  study  MF  4411  CTX  suppression  was  observed  after  three 
months,  remaining  suppressed  throughout  treatment  and  after  36  months  of  therapy  the  median 
reduction  was  65  per  cent  compared  to  baseline  values.  Maximal  suppression  of  serum  osteocalcin 
levels  was  reached  after  6  months  with  a  median  reduction  of  36  per  cent  that  remained  constant 
throughout the study. 
Prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis 
In  study  MF  4499,  urinary  CTX,  was  suppressed  dose  dependently  reaching  minimum  about  three 
months  after  initiation  of  therapy.  This  suppression  remained  consistent  throughout  therapy  with  a 
median  reduction  of  41  per  cent  following  24  months  of  treatment  with  2.5  mg  daily  compared  to 
baseline.  Serum  osteocalcin  levels  declined  dose  dependently  reaching  a  minimum  level  about  9 
months  after  therapy  was  initiated.  In  patients  receiving  2.5  mg  daily,  a  median  reduction  of  34  per 
cent  of  baseline  values  after  24  months  of  treatment  was  found.  No  studies  have  specifically  been 
conducted for the investigation of the secondary pharmacology of ibandronate. 
In neither the primary dose-finding study MF 4348, the confirming dose-finding study MF 4433 or in 
the  pivotal  phase  III  study  MF  4411,  no  attempt  has  apparently  been  made  at  linking  steady  state 
plasma  concentrations  of  ibandronate  to  the  biochemical  markers  of  clinical  efficacy  or  primary 
endpoints. Given the variability of plasma concentrations present and the size of the effect studied, a 
statistically significant or clinically meaningful correlation is not likely to materialise. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
A complete pharmacokinetic documentation has been submitted. 
8/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ibandronic  acid  was  determined  in  human  plasma  and  urine  by  gas  chromatography  –  mass 
spectrometry  (GC-MS) and/or an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). These methods are 
considered suitable for their purposes and are well validated. 
The pharmacokinetics of ibandronate is generally well described. Following oral administration of 2.5 
mg ibandronate, the pharmacokinetic profile is consistent and predictable across the target population 
as  well  as  in  other  populations  studied.  No  evidence  of  dose-dependent  pharmacokinetics  has  been 
found. Time dependency has been demonstrated as accumulation occurs in the target population upon 
prolonged exposure. A 1.5 to 2-fold increase in AUC following 12 months of oral administration was 
shown,  as  were  similar  changes  in  maximum  plasma  concentrations.  Considering  the  very  low 
bioavailability  and  the  huge  inter-  and  intraindividual  variability,  an  accumulation  in  this  order  of 
magnitude is not judged to be of clinical significance. 
Absorption 
Maximum plasma concentrations of ibandronate are  reached within one hour when not administered 
concomitantly with food. Absolute bioavailability is 0.6 per cent and is further reduced by 90 per cent 
if ibandronate is administered concomitantly with food. 
Distribution 
The  apparent  terminal  volume  of  distribution  in  man  is  at  least  90  L,  but  the  estimation  of  this 
parameter  is  hampered  by  the  problems  associated  with  the  estimations  of  the  terminal  slope  of  the 
time-concentration  curves  due  to  a  paucity  of  data  points.  Ibandronate  is  distributed  into  soft  tissue 
and a substantial proportion of the drug is bound to the bone. Plasma protein binding is about 85 per 
cent. 
Elimination 
Ibandronate  is  not  metabolised  and  is  eliminated  unchanged  in  the  urine  with  a  renal  clearance  of 
about 60 mL/min. Total clearance is about 84-160 mL/min and the residual clearance probably reflects 
uptake of the drug in the bone. 
Pharmacokinetics has not been investigated in subjects below 18 years of age. The pharmacokinetics 
of ibandronate has not been studied in patients suffering from hepatic impairment but, as ibandronate 
is not metabolised, no dose reduction in these patients seems necessary. 
Studies  in  patients  suffering  from  varying  degrees  of  renal  impairment  have  demonstrated  a  linear 
relationship  between  renal  function  and  renal  clearance  of  ibandronate.  Exposure  to  ibandronate  as 
assessed  by  AUC  increases  about  two-fold  in  subjects  with  creatinine  clearance  below  30  mL/min. 
The  mean  Cmax  increases  by  50  per  cent  with  a  huge  interindividual  variation.  As  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  ibandronate  was  not  assessed  in  patients  with  end-stage  renal  disease  managed 
other than by haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetics of ibandronate in these patients is unknown. Due to 
limited clinical experience in this patient group,  ibandronate is not recommended for patients with a 
creatinine clearance below 30 mL /min.  
Appropriate warning of the use under these circumstances is made in the SPC. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
In  vitro  studies  do  not  suggest  that  ibandronate  possess  a  potential  for  clinically  relevant 
pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions related to cytochrome P450.  In vivo interaction  studies have 
been  performed  for  concomitant  administration  of  hormone  replacement  therapy,  tamoxifen, 
melphalan/prednisone  and  ranitidine.  Concomitant  administration  with  ranitidine  increased  absolute 
bioavailability  by  20  per  cent,  while  no  pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  observed  for  the  other 
drugs. The effect of ranitidine is most likely secondary to gastric pH change, and can be considered of 
no clinical relevance. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies: 
The  applicant  has  used  the  capsule  for  some  early  phase  I  and  II  studies,  while  phase  III  were 
conducted with the film-coated tablet. In order to show a reasonable degree of bioequivalence between 
these  formulations,  the  applicant  has  provided  relative  bioavailability  calculations  of  capsule  versus 
film-coated  tablet  formulations.  The  resulting  point  estimate  of  AUC  ratio  is  108%  with  90%  CI 
confidence limits of 75-157%. For Cmax ratio, the point estimate is 95% with 90% confidence limits 
9/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
of  63-145%.  While  the  confidence  limits  exceed  the  usual  recommended  limits,  this  is  deemed 
justifiable in the present case. Ibandronate has a very low bioavailability and thus comes with inherent 
large variability that is reflected in the confidence intervals 
Clinical efficacy  
The  applicant  is  seeking  registration  of  the  use  of  ibandronate  in  the  daily  dose  of  2.5  mg  for  the 
treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  and  for  the  prevention  of  postmenopausal 
osteoporosis. The clinical studies providing support for these indications are listed here: 
Study No. 
(Location) 
Phase 
Design 
Duration 
Total 
No. of 
Patients 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Purpose of the Study  
Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis 
MF4348 
(Denmark) 
180 
Phase 2 
SC, DB, PC, 
DF, // 
1 year 
Lumbar 
spine 
BMD 
MF4433 
(Denmark) 
MF4411 
(US/Canada/
Europe) 
Phase 2 
SC, DB, PC, 
// with XO 
2 years1 
Phase 3 
MC, DB, 
PC, // 
3 years 
240 
2929 
MF4491 
(US/Europe) 
Phase 3b 
MC, O, // 
1 year 
213 
Lumbar 
spine 
BMD 
New 
incident 
vertebral 
fractures 
Lumbar 
spine 
BMD 
Prevention of Postmenopausal Osteoporosis 
MF4499 
(US/Canada) 
653 
Lumbar 
spine 
BMD 
Phase 2/3 
MC, DB, 
PC, DF, // 
2 years 
Efficacy and safety of daily dosing 
(placebo, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg. 2.5 mg, 
5.0 mg) in women with low forearm BMD 
(T-score ≤ -1.5). [60 minute post-dose 
fast]. 
Efficacy and safety of 2.5 mg daily and 20 
mg intermittent2 dosing vs. placebo in 
women with low lumbar spine BMD (T-
score ≤ -2.5). [60 minute post-dose fast]. 
Efficacy and safety of 2.5 mg daily and 20 
mg intermittent2 dosing vs. placebo in 
women with low lumbar spine BMD (T-
score -2.0 - -5.0) and 1 – 4 prevalent 
vertebral fractures. [60 minute post-dose 
fast]. 
Comparison of a 30-minute vs. 60-minutes 
post-dose fast with daily administration of 
2.5 mg in women with low lumbar spine 
BMD (T-score ≤ -2.5). 
Efficacy and safety of daily dosing (0.5 
mg, 1.0 mg, 2.5 mg, placebo) in women at 
least 1 year postmenopausal and with 
normal or low lumbar spine BMD (T-score 
≥ -2.5). [30 minute post-dose fast]. 
DB = double-blind, BMD = bone mineral density, DF = dose finding, MC = multicenter, O = open-label, PC = placebo-
controlled., SC = single center, // = parallel group, XO = cross over 
1 Placebo-controlled for the first 12 months 
2 20 mg ibandronate every other day for 12 doses at the start of every 3 month cycle 
A GCP inspection of the multicenter, phase III, clinical trial MF4411 was performed. Compliance 
with the protocol and GCP appeared to be satisfactory and the quality of the data reported was 
acceptable. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
The dose and dosing interval selected for the pivotal studies are based on the two phase 2 studies 
MF4348, and MF4433. The phase 3 studies MF4411 and MF4499 are the two pivotal studies 
supporting the indication. The MF4491 was conducted in order to investigate whether reducing the 
post-dose fasting might increase long-term compliance. 
Dose response studies 
MF4348,  and  MF4433  are  two  phase  2  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised  studies.  The 
primary endpoint in these trials was the change in lumbar spine BMD in the ITT population. 
10/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study MF4348 was a 1-year dose-finding study in 180 women with low forearm BMD (T-score ≤ -
1.5).  The  effect  of  daily  oral  ibandronate  at  doses  0.25,  0.5,  1.0,  2.5  and  5.0  mg  on  BMD  was 
investigated. There were dose-dependent increases in lumbar spine BMD in the ITT population with 
an apparent plateau at the 2.5 mg after 12 months. 
Study  MF4433,  of  two  years  duration  in  240    women  with  osteoporosis,  included  the  2.5  mg  daily 
dose selected from study MF4348, and, in addition, investigated an intermittent treatment regimen of 
20  mg  ibandronate  given  every  other  day for  24  days  at  the  start  of  every  3-month  cycle.  Based  on 
predefined equivalence margin of 2% for the 95% CI the two regimes were to be equally efficacious 
as regards effect on BMD. Furthermore,  ibandronate 2.5 mg daily increased lumbar spine BMD after 
one year to levels similar to those  seen in study MF4348 indicating consistency of the effect of this 
dose. Based on the results of MF4348 and MF4433, the 2.5 mg daily dose seems an appropriate choice 
for the pivotal phase III trials.  
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials)  
As mentioned before, in support of the application of daily treatment with 2.5 mg  ibandronate, two 
main trials were performed, MF4411 supporting the daily oral administration of   ibandronate for the 
treatment of post menopausal osteoporosis and MF4499 supporting the daily oral administration of 2.5 
mg ibandronate for the prevention of bone loss.  
Additionally, a supportive phase 3 study, MF4491 for the treatment of PMO with BMD as the primary 
endpoint was also performed. 
Study MF4411 
1. 
Description of the study 
MF4411 was a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, phase 3 fracture study 
carried out in North America and Europe. 
A total of 2929 women, in the age of 55 –80 years, at least 5 years post-menopausal with at least one 
vertebral fracture and a BMD score below –2.0 in at least one of the vertebrae L1-L4 were randomised 
into 3 parallel groups and treated as outpatients for three years with either: placebo, 2.5 mg 
ibandronate, one tablet q.d. or 20 mg ibandronate, intermittent treatment with one dose every other day 
for 12 doses at the start of each 3 month cycle and were evaluated for efficacy. 
The  medication  was  administered  orally  and  the  patients  were  instructed  to  take  the  tablets  after  at 
least a 6 hours fast immediately after waking in the morning with sufficient water and remain fasting 
for a minimum of 1 hour after dosing. All patients received daily oral supplements of 400 IU vitamin 
D and 500 mg calcium. 
Patients  were  randomised  in  a  clinically  relevant  order.  At  visit  1  the  patients  was  randomised  in 
blocks  of  6  patients  into  one  of  the  3  treatment  groups.  The  randomisation  was  carried  out  in 
accordance  with  a  predetermined  randomisation  list  based  on  block  randomisation.  Each  center  was 
provided with at least one block with 6 numbers 
The blinding procedures were performed in a classical and appropriate manner 
The exclusion criteria applied to women with more than two lumbar  spinal fractures, with a BMD 
below –5.0, women suffering from diseases (chronic liver and gastrointestinal diseases, cancer, 
alcoholism, primary hyperparathyroidism, Paget’s disease,  and active diseases, except thyroid 
hormone treated hypothyroidism) or treated with drugs (steroids, hormones etc.) known to influence 
bone metabolism, women previously treated with bisphosphonates, women suffering from renal 
impairment or women with hypo-or hypercalcaemia, women treated with any investigational drugs 
within 30 days preceding the first dose of the study drug were given, women treated with 
aminoglycosides within  4 weeks prior to randomisation and women with aspirin-sensitive asthma in 
their medical history. 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
The  objective  of  the  study  was  to  investigate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  continuous  and  intermittent 
oral administration of ibandronate in the long-term treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. 
11/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy parameter was the number of patients with new incident vertebral fractures at 3 
years of treatment with the study medication in the ITT (intention to treat) population. 
Incident  vertebral  fractures  were  classified  as  either  new  incident  fractures  (of  previously  normal 
vertebrae)  or  worsening  incident  fractures  (of  previously  deformed  vertebrae).  Only  new  fractures 
were included as a primary endpoint  
An  incident  vertebral  fracture  was  defined  by  a  reduction  of  at  least  20%  in  the  anterior,  medial  or 
posterior height of a vertebral body and an absolute decrease in height by ≥ 4 mm.  
Radiographs  were  taken  at  the  screen  visit  and  annually  thereafter.  Fractures  were  based  on  the 
radiologists  qualitative  diagnosis  and  on  morphometrically  criteria  using  digitised  images  produced 
from the original lateral X-rays.  
Prevalent vertebral fractures were defined as vertebral deformities identified at baseline having a 20% 
reduction in any height of vertebral bodies between T4 and L4 and required an additional qualitative 
confirmation by an experienced radiologist.  
Clinical fractures were those coming to medical attention, were reported as adverse events and were 
confirmed by X-rays. 
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  include  the  rate  of  patients  with  new  vertebral  fractures  (including 
clinical  fractures),  total  number  of  fractures,  height,  changes  in  bone  mineral  density  at  the  lumbar 
spine  and  hip,  urinary  excretion  of  the  C-  or  N-telopeptides  of  collagen  type  I  (CTX  and  NTX), 
corrected for  creatinine as biochemical  markers of bone resorption and serum  bone specific alkaline 
phosphatase and osteocalcin as biochemical markers of bone formation.  
3. 
Statistical analysis 
The primary efficacy parameter was analysed by a life-table survival method. A confirmatory analysis 
was  done  by  testing  the  homogeneity  of  the  time  to  event.  The  reduction  in  the  relative  risk  was 
performed by using a Cox proportional hazards  model that included an interaction between  baseline 
BMD and treatment as a covariate. The analysis of time to event for clinical fractures was done using 
Kaplan  Meier  analysis.  ANOVA  was  used  to  investigate  the  treatment  effect  on  the  relative3-year 
BMD  changes,  adjusting  for  baseline  BMD  as  a  covariate.  Kruskal  Wallis  test  was  used  for  the 
comparison of treatment groups based on 3-year data for the relative changes in markers of bone turn 
over. Differences in the reduction of height were assessed by Wilcoxon test. 
RESULTS 
4. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
The  intention  to  treat  (ITT)  population  consists  of  all  patients  receiving  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medication and where at least one follow-up data point was available. This population was used in all 
fracture analyses 
The per-protocol (PP) population includes all patients in the ITT population except those with major 
deviation  from  the  study  protocol.  These  subjects  were  excluded  due  to  the  intake  of  forbidden 
concomitant medication affecting bone metabolism, the lack of BMD or vertebral fracture assessment 
at  baseline  or  follow  up,  insufficient  compliance,  or  the  development  of  a  confounding  condition 
affecting  bone  metabolism.  This  PP  population  was  defined  in  order  to  assess  the  effect  of  
ibandronate in a cohort fulfilling the ideal study criteria. All analyses of non-fracture endpoints were 
performed in the PP study group. 
A total of 2929 patients were evaluable for ITT analyses and was identical with the safety population. 
A total of 2125 patients were evaluable for PP analyses: 706 in the placebo group, 711 in the 2.5 mg 
group and 708 patients in the group receiving intermittent treatment.  
12/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessed for Eligibility (n=18447)  
Excluded (n=12903) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
Other reasons (n=2598) 
Randomised (n=2946) 
Allocated to intervention  (n=982) (Placebo) 
Received allocated intervention = evaluable 
for ITT analysis (n=975) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention, did 
Allocated to intervention  (n=982)(2.5 mg 
Received allocated intervention = 
evaluable for ITT analysis (n=977.) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; did 
Discontinued intervention;  
- AE (n=180.) 
-other reasons, not recorded  
(n=167) 
Discontinued intervention;  
- AE (n=175..) 
-other reasons , not recorded  
(n=154) 
Completed (n= 628)  
Completed (n= 648) 
Allocated to intervention 
(n=982)(inter) 
Received allocated intervention 
= evaluable for ITT analysis 
(n=977) 
Did not receive Allocated 
intervention; did not take 
medication  (n=5) 
Discontinued intervention;  
- AE (n=178.) 
-other reasons , not recorded  
(n=137) 
Completed (n= 662.) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
n
o
i
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
5. 
Efficacy results  
Treatment  with  2.5 mg  daily  oral  ibandronate  led  to  a  clinically  meaningful  and  highly  significant 
reduction  in  the  incidence  of  new  morphometric  vertebral  fractures  in  patients  with  postmenopausal 
osteoporosis leading to relative risk reduction of 62% (p < 0.0001). This reduction was evident after 
two years and was maintained over the 3-year period of treatment. Furthermore, this effect was also 
shown for new and worsening vertebral fractures separately, as well as for clinical vertebral fractures. 
The  magnitude  and  significance  of  the  anti-fracture  efficacy  was  consistently  observed  in  various 
subgroups  of  patients.  In  particular  no  geographical  differences  were  observed.  Daily    ibandronate 
treatment had no effect on the incidence of non-vertebral fractures, but appeared to be effective in a 
high-risk subpopulation. The lack of an observable treatment effect on the incidence of nonvertebral 
fractures in the total patient population was probably due to the low-risk patient population included in 
the  study.  Also,  a  significant  reduction  in  the  loss  of  stature  was  consistently  shown  with  daily 
ibandronate  therapy.  Consistent  with  the  anti-fracture  effect,  study  MF4411  also  revealed  that  daily 
therapy  with  2.5 mg  oral  ibandronate  induces  a  significant  and  clinically  relevant  increase  in  BMD 
(lumbar,  femoral  neck  or  hip)  that  was  not  confined  to  the  first  year  of  treatment  but  continued 
throughout the observation period.  
Study MF4499 
1. 
Description of the study 
13/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
MF4499  was  a  multi-center,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised,  dose-finding,  phase  2-3 
study. 
Six hundred patients were to be enrolled, 150 patients in each of the four groups with the purpose of 
having 112 patients completing two years of treatment. Patients were assigned randomly to one of four 
parallel groups. Placebo, or ibandronate 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg or 2.5 mg. Inclusion criteria were: women at 
least one year post menopausal and written informed consent. Exclusion criteria were: mean BMD at 
lumbar  spine  <  -2.5  SD  (T-score),  osteoporotic  fracture  in  history,  bilateral  oophorectorny,  diseases 
known  to  influence  bone  metabolism  (chronic  liver  and  GI  diseases,  cancer,  alcoholism,  primary 
hyperparathyroidism,  Paget  disease,  histologically  documented  osteomalacia  and  active  thyroid 
diseases without treatment) or treatment with drugs (steroids, hormones etc.) within the previous six 
months  known  to  influence  bone  metabolism,  treatment  with  bisphosphonates,  renal  impairment, 
hypo-or  hypercalcaemia,  treatment  with  any  investigational  drugs  within  30  days  preceding  the  first 
dose of the study drug were given, and  vitamin D deficiency. 
The medication was administered in a similar way as  for study MF4411. Only the post-dose fasting 
period differed: 30 minutes in study MF4499 compared to 60 minutes in study MF4411.  
Patients were randomised into four parallel groups on the basis of baseline BMD and time since 
menopause: placebo, or ibandronate 0.5 mg, 1.0 mg or 2.5 mg. The doses were chosen on the basis of 
a dose finding phase 2 study showing a significant dose-dependent increase in BMD at doses 1.0, 2.5 
and 5.0 mg ibandronate compared with placebo. 
The blinding procedures were performed in a classical and appropriate manner 
2. 
Primary endpoints 
The objective of the study was to investigate the dose-response, efficacy and safety of continuous  oral  
ibandronate administration for the prevention of bone loss in postmenopausal women and to define the 
optimum dose to prevent bone loss. 
The primary efficacy parameter was the change in BMD of the lumbar spine after 2 years of treatment 
in the ITT population.  
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  relative  change  from  baseline  in  BMD  of  the  total  body,  distal 
forearm  and  proximal  femur  and  the  relative  change  from  baseline  and  placebo  in  rate  of  bone 
turnover, as assessed by serum C-telopeptide (CTX), PTH and osteocalcin concentrations and urinary 
CTX excretion (ratio of CTX/creatinine). 
3. 
Statistical analysis 
A close test procedure was adopted for the primary efficacy variable, lumbar spine BMD. The primary 
model  was  an  ANOVA,  which  took  treatment  and  allocated  stratum  into  account  as  independent 
factors. The  primary analysis population was the ITT population. Subgroup  analysis for the  primary 
efficacy variable was conducted for stratum, weight, calcium compliance, baseline vitamin D status, 
and time since menopause. A one-way ANOVA model containing only the treatment factor was used. 
The methods for the secondary variables for the comparison between treatment groups of the relative 
change in BMD were the same as the one used for the analyses of the primary variable. The Wilcoxon 
Rank  sum  test  was  used  for  the  comparison  between  treatment  groups  for  the  relative  change  from 
baseline in markers of bone turnover and PTH. 
RESULTS 
4. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
As shown in the figure, 653 patients (of 1484 screened) at 11 study centres in the US and Canada were 
assigned to one of the 4 strata and randomised into four treatment groups. Five patients did not receive 
any  medication (three in the placebo and one in each of the 0.5 mg and 1.0  mg groups 547 patients 
completed 2 years of treatment. A total of 101 were prematurely withdrawn with a frequency for each 
reason equally distributed across treatment groups (27 (17%) in the placebo, 23 (14%) in 0.5 mg, 21 
(13%) in the 1.0 mg and 30 (18%) in the 2.5 mg groups). The most frequent reasons were AEs (41%). 
14/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two  analyses  sets  were  performed:  ITT  (620  patients)  and  PP.  The  ITT  population  included  all 
patients who received study medication and had a evaluable lumbar BMD measurement and at least 
one follow up visit. The PP group was defined to provide the most controlled efficacy calculation and 
analyses were considered supplementary. From the randomised population 5 were excluded from the 
safety  analysis,  33  from  ITT  and  138  from  PP  analysis.  The  frequency  of  patients  excluded  and 
thereasons from each analysis population was balanced across the treatment groups  
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
n
o
i
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
Randomised (n=653)
Did not receive study medication  (n=5)
Allocated to safety analysis  (n=648) 
Patients completing 2 years 
of treatment  (n=547) 
Prematurely withdrawn 
from treatment (n=101) 
Strata A 
placebo (n= 29) 
0.5 mg 
(n=27)1.0mg 
(n=28) 
2.5mg (n=28) 
Strata B  
 placebo (n= 48) 
0.5 mg (n=50) 
1.0mg (n=53) 
2.5 mg (n=48) 
Strata C  
placebo (n= 29) 
0.5 mg (n=29) 
1.0mg (n=29) 
2.5 mg (n=29) 
Strata D 
 placebo (n= 56) 
0.5 mg (n=56) 
1.0mg (n=56) 
2.5 mg (n=58) 
5. 
Efficacy results   
Whereas  the  MF4411  study  in  osteoporotic  patients  demonstrated  that,  treatment  with  daily 
ibandronate resulted in BMD increment of 6.5% at the lumbar spine and 3.4% at the total hip after 3 
years.In study MF4499  treatment with daily ibandronate resulted in BMD increment of 3.1% at the 
lumbar spine and 2-3% at the total hip at 2 . These effects on BMD was detected in both early and late 
postmenopausal women as well as women with normal or low BMD. 
Supportive study(ies) 
The  phase  3  study,  MF4491  with  BMD  as  the  primary  endpoint  was  performed  in  support  of  the 
indication  treatment  of  post  menopausal  osteoporosis  and  with  the  purpose  of  investigating  whether 
shortening the post-dose fasting interval from 60 to 30 minutes maintained efficacy, as the applicant 
considered that reducing this fasting interval may help to improve long-term compliance. 
The  study  was  a  multi-center,  open  label,  and  randomised  one  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  oral  
ibandronate  2.5  mg  daily  with  either  30  min  or  60  min  post-dose  fast  during  12  months  in  patients 
with postmenopausal osteoporosis. The objective was to demonstrate comparable efficacy of 2.5 mg 
oral  ibandronate to increase bone mass when the post-dose fast is reduced from 60 min to 30 min. In 
addition  to  the  treatment  with    ibandronate,  patients  received  vitamin  D  and  calcium  supplements. 
Two  hundred  and  thirteen  subjects  were  included.  Women  >=  5  years  postmenopausal,  age  55-80 
years with spine BMD<=-2.5 were included. The primary efficacy parameter was the relative change 
from  baseline  to  last  available  value  of  lumbar  BMD  within  the  treatment  period.    Secondary 
parameters  include  relative  changes  in  proximal  femur  BMD  and  the  rate  of  bone  turnover.  Safety 
parameters were also assessed. 
The  mean  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  from  baseline  to  the  end  was  3.07%  in  the  30  min  group 
compared  to  4.95%  in  the  60  min  group.  As  it  appears,  non-inferiority  was  not  demonstrated  as  the 
lower  boundary  of  the  95%  CI  was  <  -2%.  A  non  parametric  analysis  also  failed  to  show  non-
15/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inferiority. This indicates a better clinical benefit with the longer fasting time. This recommendation 
of administration is included in the SPC. 
The mean change for the proximal femur BMD from baseline to the end are similar to those for the 
lumbar spine BMD. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Two  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomised  studies  were  performed  to  determine  the  most 
optimal dose to be used in Phase III trials. Based on these studies, 2.5 mg daily seems an appropriate 
choice for the pivotal studies. 
In general, accelerated postmenopausal bone turnover was reduced by ibandronate, with 2.5 mg daily 
ibandronate significantly suppressing markers of bone resorption and formation compared to placebo 
in  patients  with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  or  at  risk  of  developing  osteoporosis.  The  response  to 
treatment of markers of bone turnover was rapid and the effect was sustained throughout the period of 
treatment. 
In conclusion the applicant has submitted data that demonstrates substantial evidence of efficacy for 
daily administration of 2.5 mg oral ibandronate in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures in patients 
with  postmenopausal  osteoporosis.  In  addition,  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  in  patients  with 
osteopenia, daily oral administration of 2.5  mg ibandronate significantly increases BMD, supporting 
the prevention claim.  
Clinical safety 
Safety parameters are based on data from four studies MF 4411, MF4348, MF 4433, and MF 4499, 
including 1251 patients treated with the requested regimen of 2.5 mg daily ibandronate, 1245 patients 
treated with placebo, 1055 treated with the 20 mg intermittent ibandronate regimen and 446 patients 
treated  with  other  daily  regimens  of  ibandronate.  The  majority  of  patients  in  these  four  trials 
(2929/3997  or  73%)  were  enrolled  in  the  3-year  placebo  controlled  treatment  study  MF  4411.  This 
study thus represents the main demonstration of safety in support of the requested 2.5 mg once daily 
ibandronate  regimen  in  this  indication.  The  main  safety  parameters  assessed  in  the  oral  post 
menopausal osteoporosis studies consisted of adverse events and clinical laboratory tests. In study MF 
4411,  histomorphometric  assessments  were  performed  on  fully  evaluable  bone  biopsy  cores  from 
selected study centres in Europe and North America in order to investigate the effects of ibandronate 
on the quality of newly formed bone and bone remodelling. 
Patient exposure 
In MF 4411 patients in both the daily and intermittent arms were exposed to 78% of the planned total 
dose. With regard to  study MF  4499, patients in each of the ibandronate treatment arms received a 
mean exposure of approximately 90% of the planned dose. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths and discontinuation due to adverse events 
The frequency of adverse events in MF 4411, MF4348, MF 4433, and MF 4499 are listed in the table 
below. In general the adverse event profile of ibandronate in study MF 4411was representative of that 
in the other placebo-controlled studies. The most frequent types of adverse event in these studies were 
those of the respiratory system, body as a whole, digestive system,  musculoskeletal system, nervous 
system,  and  cardiovascular  system.  Overall  rates  for  these  body  systems  were  generally  comparable 
for placebo and ibandronate groups.  
16/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MF 4411
PMO Treatment
3 years
MF 4348
PMO Treatment
1 year
MF 4433a
PMO Treatment
1 year
MF 4499
PMO Prevention
2 years
Plac
N=975
(%)
Iban
2.5 mg
N=977
(%)
Plac
N=30
(%)
Iban
2.5
mg
N=30
(%)
Plac
N=81
(%)
Iban
2.5
mg
N=81
(%)
Plac
N=159
(%)
Iban
2.5
mg
N=163
(%)
88.9
46.3
30.9
6.9
6.4
4.7
42.6
16.4
12.5
6.2
5.5
3.6
2.5
1.6
1.3
42.3
9.1
5.3
6.3
5.5
2.9
2.4
1.6
6.3
0.6
39.2
13.5
11.2
6.7
5.1
2.7
2.4
3.3
21.0
5.0
20.4
7.8
0.1
15.9
6.4
4.0
90.9
45.5
31.7
10.8
5.8
6.1
43.9
14.9
14.2
7.6
4.6
4.2
3.0
1.9
1.3
39.9
11.4
7.0
4.9
5.5
2.6
2.9
1.5
4.2
0.8
39.8
13.5
9.8
5.3
5.0
3.0
3.3
2.7
23.5
5.9
22.6
7.7
0.8
19.1
6.6
5.6
76.7
23.3
13.3
-
-
3.3
20.0
6.7
6.7
-
3.3
-
3.3
-
-
40.0
3.3
6.7
3.3
3.3
6.7
3.3
-
3.3
3.3
16.7
6.7
-
-
-
-
-
-
16.7
3.3
6.7
3.3
-
13.3
6.7
-
80.0
16.7
6.7
10.0
-
3.3
30.0
6.7
10.0
-
-
3.3
3.3
-
-
20.0
-
6.7
10.0
-
3.3
-
-
-
-
10.0
10.0
-
-
-
-
-
-
16.7
-
20.0
10.0
6.7
23.3
20.0
-
91.4
42.0
28.4
4.9
3.7
3.7
30.9
7.4
7.4
4.9
1.2
9.9
-
1.2
-
35.8
-
1.2
-
2.5
1.2
2.5
-
11.1
6.2
23.5
7.4
4.9
1.2
3.7
1.2
-
-
19.8
7.4
9.9
4.9
-
12.3
9.9
-
88.9
33.3
21.0
3.7
1.2
4.9
34.6
4.9
4.9
3.7
-
17.3
1.2
1.2
-
40.7
1.2
11.1
6.2
3.7
1.2
-
2.5
3.7
_-
23.5
11.1
4.9
1.2
6.2
1.2
-
1.2
23.5
13.6
9.9
4.9
-
7.4
7.4
-
93.1
59.1
47.8
6.3
11.3
1.9
44.0
15.1
10.1
8.2
1.9
2.5
1.3
3.1
7.5
51.6
13.8
3.1
6.9
6.3
3.8
1.9
5.0
3.1
2.5
37.7
13.8
5.0
2.5
5.0
6.9
5.0
1.9
32.1
10.7
13.8
6.9
-
19.5
4.4
5.7
97.5
57.7
45.4
4.9
11.0
4.3
42.3
6.1
9.2
9.2
4.9
4.9
6.7
6.1
4.3
52.1
15.3
6.1
8.0
4.9
4.3
7.4
3.1
3.7
-
41.7
12.9
4.9
1.2
9.8
7.4
3.1
5.5
30.1
9.8
14.7
4.9
1.2
17.2
2.5
4.9
11.3
13.2
6.7
6.7
1.2
1.2
14.5
14.7
3.9
4.4
15.0
5.7
13.5
4.9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4.9
1.2
-
7.4
1.2
6.3
7.4
13.8
3.8
11.0
3.1
Total patients with
at least one AE
RESPIRATORY SYSTEM
Upper respiratory
inf.
Bronchitis
Sinusitis
Pneumonia
BODY AS A WHOLE
Accidental injury
Back pain
Pain in extremity
Abdominal pain
Infection
Asthenia
Allergic Reaction
Flu syndrome
DIGESTIVE SYSTEM
Dyspepsia
Diarrhea
Constipation
Gastroenteritis
Flatulence
Tooth disorder
Sore Throat
Nausea
Gastrointestinal
Disorder
MUSCULOSKELETAL
SYSTEM
Arthralgia
Osteoporosis
fracture
Arthrosis
Myalgia
Joint disorder
Arthritis
Tenosynovitis
NERVOUS SYSTEM
Headache
CARDIOVASCULAR
SYSTEM
Hypertension
Periph. vascular
dis.
UROGENITAL SYSTEM
Cystitis
Urinary tract
infection
METABOLIC AND
NUTRITIONAL
DISORDERS
Hypercholesterolemia
SPECIAL SENSES
Cataract
a   Data from first year of study, (second year was not placebo-controlled 
In  study  MF  4411,  the  proportion  of  patients  that  experienced  an  AE  with  a  possible  or  probable 
relationship to trial treatment was slightly higher in the 2.5 mg daily ibandronate group (19.8%) than 
17/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the placebo group (17.9%). Treatment-related adverse events reported at a frequency of greater than 
1%,  more  frequently  associated  with  administration  of  ibandronate  2.5 mg  once  daily  than  with 
placebo, were dyspepsia, diarrhoea and myalgia. These were, in most cases, not serious in nature and 
did not lead to premature withdrawal from treatment. In the prevention study MF 4499, the nature and 
frequency  of  related  adverse  events  were  comparable  for  placebo  (11.9%)  and  ibandronate  2.5  mg 
daily (9.2%). 
The  most  frequent  types  of  SAEs  in  the  four  studies  were  those  of  the  cardiovascular  system, 
musculoskeletal system, and the digestive system. The overall proportion of patients reporting SAEs 
was higher in all groups in study MF 4411 compared with the other three studies, which might reflect 
the longer duration of this study and differences in the patient population compared with prevention 
study MF 4499. 
Most  SAEs  (>  99%)  were  assessed  as  unrelated  to  trial  treatment  for  study  MF 4411.  In  study  MF 
4499, all SAEs were assessed as unrelated to trial treatment. 
A total of 14 deaths occurred in the 2.5 mg daily ibandronate treatment groups, and 13 in the placebo 
groups. All deaths were assessed as unrelated to trial treatment. 
In  conclusion,  there  were  no  differences  between  the  placebo  and  active  treatment  groups  in  the 
frequency  or  nature  of  SAEs  assessed  as  possibly  related  to  treatment.  Furthermore,  the  nature  and 
frequency of adverse events leading to death was similar for the ibandronate and placebo groups in the 
four placebo-controlled oral studies using ibandronate 2.5 mg daily. 
Laboratory findings 
There were no differences in laboratory safety test results between placebo treated patients and those 
receiving ibandronate 2.5 mg daily, with the exception of alkaline phosphatase, which was reduced in 
ibandronate  treated  patients,  consistent  with  the  known  pharmacological  action  of  the  drug.  In 
particular, there was no increase in the ibandronate 2.5 mg daily groups of abnormalities indicative of 
hepatic or renal dysfunction, hypocalcaemia or hypophosphataemia.  
Histomorphometric  analyses  of  transiliac  bone  biopsy  cores  support  the  bone  safety  after 3 years  of 
oral administration of ibandronate 
Safety in special populations 
A subgroup analysis of adverse events by baseline creatinine clearance was performed for study MF 
4411. In the majority of patients (approximately 94%), baseline creatinine clearance was in the range 
30-90  mL/min,  with  equal  distribution  between  the  subgroups  30-60  mL/min  and  >60-90  mL/min. 
There  was  no  consistent  effect  of  renal  function,  i.e.  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  of  30-60 
mL/min did not have a higher rate of AEs than those in the range >60-90 mL/min. 
A subgroup analysis of adverse events in patients with a history of gastrointestinal tract disorders was 
also  performed  for  study  MF  4411.Approximately  30%  of  patients  had  a  history  of  the  selected  GI 
disorders. Oral ibandronate did not increase the overall risk of digestive system AEs in patients with a 
relevant  medical  history  of  gastrointestinal  disorders.  Patients  with  a  relevant  history  of 
gastrointestinal  disorders  showed  higher  incidence  rates  of  digestive  system  AEs  in  all  3  treatment 
groups compared to patients without such a history. The magnitude of difference between subgroups 
was similar across groups. 
A subgroup analysis of adverse events by NSAID use was performed for study MF 4411. In patients 
receiving concomitant NSAIDs, in all groups there was a higher rate of episodic or acute AEs 
involving pain or discomfort requiring symptomatic relief, and for which it is likely that the NSAID 
was the treatment, not the cause. Considering the known side effects of NSAID this analysis seems 
relevant. Although there were no difference in the frequency of AEs at the whole body level between 
patients receiving both NSAID and  ibandronate and patients receiving placebo and  ibandronate it 
seems that the former group exhibit a higher frequency of dyspepsia and diarrhoea indicating that the 
GI toxic effects of NSAID and ibandronate could be additive.The SPC includes an appropriate 
warning about this. 
18/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall the data indicate that treatment with oral  ibandronate  at the dose of 2.5 mg is safe with an 
acceptable tolerability in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis. There were no 
notable differences in the safety profile between the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg group in terms of 
adverse  events,  deaths,  serious  adverse  events,  and  adverse  events  leading  to  premature  withdrawal 
from treatment. Neither were there any differences between active treatments and placebo with respect 
to  any  kind  of  AE  in  subgroups  of  patients  stratified  on  renal  function  or  among  patients  with  or 
without a  history of GI disorders. The overall rate  of treatment related adverse events was higher in 
the  ibandronate  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  in  study  MF  4411  as  a  result  of  the  higher 
rates for  dyspepsia, diarrhoea, rash and myalgia in the treatment group. However, these events were 
not serious in nature and did not lead to premature withdrawal from treatment. Furthermore patients 
receiving both NSAID and ibandronate have a higher frequency of dyspepsia and diarrhoea indicating 
that  the  GI  toxicity  of  these  compounds  could  be  additive,  which  is  a  point  to  be  emphasised. 
Administration of ibandronate was not associated with serious or treatment-limiting digestive system 
AEs, adverse renal or hepatic effects, defects of bone mineralisation, or hypocalcaemia. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The important quality characteristics of ibandronic acid are well defined and controlled, and the 
tabletted product is formulated, manufactured and controlled in a way that is satisfactory. The 
specifications and batch analytical results indicate a consistent product with uniform clinical 
performance from batch to batch. There are no outstanding quality issues, which have a negative 
impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  ibandronate  inhibits 
or  reverses  the  decrease  in  both  bone  mass  and  strength.  Safety  pharmacology  studies  revealed  no 
adverse  effects  on  the  central  nervous,  cardiovascular,  respiratory  or  gastrointestinal  system  at 
exposures well above those anticipated in humans 
From  the  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view,  mice,  rats  and  dogs  were  the  most  relevant  species  for 
preclinical  efficacy  and  safety  studies.  The  studies  submitted  are  generally  fulfilling  and  give  an 
adequate overview. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  showed  the  kidney,  and  to  a  lesser  extent  liver,  lung  and 
gastrointestinal tract as primary target organs. According to the studies performed it can be concluded 
that there is no special concern for the human clinical use. 
All this information has been included in the SPC.  
Efficacy 
Two dose response studies determined that 2.5 mg daily is the optimal choice for the pivotal studies. 
Two main trials were performed to support the daily oral administration of 2.5 mg of  ibandronate for 
the  treatment  and  prevention  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women.  In  addition  a  supportive 
phase  III  study  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  with  BMD  as  primary 
endpoint was performed 
The data obtained demonstrates that the daily administration of 2.5 mg of  ibandronate reduces the risk 
of vertebral fractures in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis, and , significantly increases BMD 
in patients with osteopenia, supporting the prevention claim  
Safety 
Data  submitted  with  regard  to  the  safety  profile  of    ibandronate  reveals  that  the  treatment  with  oral  
ibandronate    at  the  dose  of  2.5  mg  is  safe  with  an  acceptable  tolerability  in  the  treatment  and 
prevention  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis.  There  were  no  notable  differences  in  the  safety  profile 
between the placebo and ibandronate 2.5 mg group in terms of adverse events, deaths, serious adverse 
events, and adverse events leading to premature withdrawal from treatment. 
19/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The studies submitted demonstrate the efficacy for daily administration of 2.5 mg of  ibandronate for 
treatment  and  prevention  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women.  In  addition,  the  data  submitted 
indicates that oral treatment at the indicated dose is safe and has an acceptable margin of tolerability. 
Taking this into account, it can be concluded that the benefit/risk for this product is positive. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Bonviva was favourable in the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis 
in postmenopausal women was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
20/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
