19 September 2019 
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi  
International non-proprietary name: bortezomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005074/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 
Applicant: 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kroner Strasse 1 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Hohe 
GERMANY 
Active substance: 
BORTEZOMIB 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
bortezomib 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic 
(ATC Code): 
agents 
(L01XX32) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Bortezomib as monotherapy or in combination 
with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with progressive multiple 
myeloma who have received at least 1 prior 
therapy and who have already undergone or 
are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with melphalan and 
prednisone is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated 
multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high 
dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with 
dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and 
thalidomide, is indicated for the induction 
treatment of adult patients with previously 
untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible 
for high dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 2/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bortezomib in combination with rituximab, 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and 
prednisone is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated 
mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Powder for solution for injection 
Strength(s): 
3.5 mg 
Route(s) of administration: 
Intravenous use, Subcutaneous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size(s): 
1 vial 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 3/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 14 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 15 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 15 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 15 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 16 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 16 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 22 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 22 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 22 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 23 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 23 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 4/25 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ASMF 
CPP  
CQA  
DSC 
EC 
EU  
GC   
HDPE 
HPLC     
ICH 
IR 
LDPE 
LoQ 
NMR 
PDE 
Ph. Eur. 
QbD  
QTPP    
RH 
SmPC   
USP 
UV 
XRPD 
Active Substance Master File 
Critical process parameter 
Critical Quality Attribute 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Commission 
European Union 
Gas Chromatography 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Infrared 
Low density polyethylene 
Limit of Quantitation 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Quality by design 
Quality target product profile 
Relative Humidity 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray powder diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 5/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH submitted on 17 September 2018 an application for 
marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi, through 
the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally 
authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 31 
May 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
•  Bortezomib as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple 
myeloma who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are 
unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
•  Bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
•  Bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is 
indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple 
myeloma who are eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
•  Bortezomib in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who 
are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and literature 
references instead of non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Velcade, 3.5 mg powder for solution for 
injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen Cilag International NV 
•  Date of authorisation:  26-04-2004 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/274/001 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 6/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Velcade, 3.5 mg powder for solution for 
injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Janssen Cilag International NV 
•  Date of authorisation:  26-04-2004 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/274/001 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Kolbeinn Gudmundsson 
The application was received by the EMA on 
17 September 2018 
The procedure started on 
4 October 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
19 December 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
7 January 2019 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
31 January 2019 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
26 April 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
3 June 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
6 June 2019 
during the meeting on 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 7/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
27 June 2019 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
8 August 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
30 August 2019 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated  Joint Assessment Report on the 
10 September 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
19 September 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
marketing authorisation to Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application is for marketing authorization of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 3.5 mg Powder for Solution 
for Injectionis based on Directive 2001/83/EC Article 10 (1): a generic application, referring to the 
reference product Velcade 3.5 mg Powder for Solution for Injection of the Marketing Authorisation Holder, 
Janssen-Cilaq International NV, Belgium which has been authorized in accordance with Union provisions 
in force for not less than 10 years in the EEA.  Velcade 3.5 mg Powder for Solution for Injection was first 
authorised within the EU on the 26-04-2004 under registration number EU/1/04/274/001. 
Bortezomib is a selective, reversible inhibitor of 26S proteasome in mammalian cells, a large protein 
complex that degrades ubiquinated proteins. Inhibition of the 26S proteasome prevents targeted 
proteolysis and affects multiple signalling cascades within the cell, ultimately resulting in cancer cell 
death. At 10 µM concentrations, bortezomib does not inhibit any of a wide variety of receptors and 
proteases screened and is more than 1,500 fold more selective for the proteasome than for its next 
preferable enzyme. The kinetics of proteasome inhibition were evaluated in vitro, and bortezomib was 
shown to dissociate from the proteasome with a t½ of 20 minutes, thus demonstrating that proteasome 
inhibition by bortezomib is reversible. 
Bortezomib mediated proteasome inhibition affects cancer cells in a number of ways, including, but not 
limited to, altering regulatory proteins, which control cell cycle progression and nuclear factor kappa B 
(NF kB) activation. Inhibition of the proteasome results in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. NF kB is a 
transcription factor whose activation is required for many aspects of tumourigenesis, including cell growth 
and survival, angiogenesis, cell-cell interactions, and metastasis. In myeloma, bortezomib affects the 
ability of myeloma cells to interact with the bone marrow microenvironment. 
The reference product Velcade is indicated as a monotherapy or in combination with other anticancer 
products in treatment of multiple myeloma for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated 
mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The currently 
approved indication for Bortezomib is as follows: 
Velcade as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have received at 
least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 8/25 
 
 
 
 
Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated for the 
induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible for high 
dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection can be used for either intravenous or 
subcutaneous administration, but reconstitution is different. This corresponds to the mode of 
administration of the reference medicinal product (Velcade 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection, 
Janssen-Cilag International NV, Belgium). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for solution for injection containing 3.5 mg per vial of 
bortezomib (as mannitol boronic ester). 
The only other ingredient is mannitol (E421). 
The product is available in clear type I glass vial with grey chlorobutyl rubber stoppers and blue aluminium 
flip-off overseals as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The information on bortezomib was provided in the form of an active substance master file (ASMF). 
The chemical name of bortezomib is 
[(1R)-3-methyl-1-[[(2S)-1-oxo-3-phenyl-2-[(pyrazinylcarbonyl)-amino]propyl]amino]butyl]boronic 
acid corresponding to the molecular formula C19H25BN4O4. It has a relative molecular mass of 384.24 
g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 9/25 
 
 
 
 
The chemical structure of bortezomib was elucidated by a combination of 1H, 13C and 11B NMR 
spectroscopy, elemental analysis, high resolution mass spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy, and specific 
optical rotation. The solid state properties of the active substance were measured by differential scanning 
calorimetry (DSC) and x-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). Based on the data in the original submission, 
there was uncertainty as to the nature of the active substance, which could be present as the free boronic 
acid, or as the trimeric boroxine, and which have different molecular weights. This resulted in two major 
objections. The first related to the characterization data itself. The second related to doubts about the 
actual bortezomib content of the finished product, given the difference in molecular weights of the 
monomeric and trimeric forms, and the potential impact on product strength (5% difference in assay 
between the two). In response, the applicant provided further NMR and XRPD data confirming that the 
active substance is isolated as a monomeric boronic acid rather than as a dimer or trimeric boroxine. This 
also resolved the uncertainty about the actual bortezomib content of the active substance. 
Although bortezomib is known to exhibit polymorphism based on literature data, the polymeric form 
produced by the proposed manufacturer is consistent. Nonetheless, this is not considered important as 
the active substance is dissolved and reacts with mannitol to form a boronic ester during finished product 
manufacture. 
The active substance is a slightly hygroscopic, white to off-white crystalline powder. Bortezomib is 
practically insoluble in aqueous media, irrespective of pH, but freely soluble in methanol. Addition 
of tBuOH increases solubility in water. 
Bortezomib contains two chiral centres and enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by specific optical 
rotation.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing process of the active substance has been provided in the 
restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Bortezomib is synthesized in 7 chemical transformation steps and 2 recrystallisations using well-defined 
starting materials with acceptable specifications. The first 4 steps are carried out by 1 manufacturer and 
the final 3 steps are carried out by a second manufacturer. All 3 potential stereoisomers are controlled in 
the active substance specification by a chiral HPLC method. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis and these are documented in the restricted 
part of the ASMF. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials 
and reagents have been presented. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to 
their origin and characterised. One possible genotoxic impurity, both a precursor to one of the starting 
materials and a reagent used in the process, has been demonstrated to be completely purged below 
detectable levels. Therefore, no control of this impurity is deemed necessary in any intermediate or the 
active substance. 
The  active  substance  is  packaged  in  triple  LDPE  bags  stored  inside  two  heat-sealed  triple-laminated 
aluminium  pouches,  all  flushed  with  nitrogen  prior  to  sealing.  These  are  further  stored  within  HDPE 
drums. The LDPE bags comply with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description, solubility (in-house), identity (IR, HPLC), 
appearance of solution (Ph. Eur.), water content (coulometry), specific optical rotation (in-house), 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 10/25 
 
 
 
residual solvents (GC), related substances (HPLC), stereoisomers (chiral HPLC), assay (HPLC), bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and microbial enumeration (Ph. Eur.) and absence of E. coli (in-house). 
Impurities limits are set in line with ICH Q3A. The limit for total impurities is considered acceptable based 
on batch analysis data. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from 3 pilot scale of the active substance were provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 3 pilot scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturers stored in 
the intended commercial package for up to 18 months under long term conditions (5±3 ºC) and for up to 
6 months under accelerated conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. 
Parameters investigated include description, identification, appearance of solution, water content, related 
substances, stereoisomers, assay, specific optical rotation, bacterial endotoxins and microbial 
enumeration. No significant changes were observed for any of the measured parameters, other than a 
small fluctuation (without trend) in the water content. All parameters remained within specification. 
Photostability testing was conducted on the finished product and is discussed the section on 
pharmaceutical development and stability of the finished product. In addition, stability under stressed 
conditions was evaluated in support of analytical method validation. Significant degradation occurs under 
photolytic, basic and oxidative conditions. Degradation also occurs to a lesser extent under acidic 
conditions. No degradation was observed under thermal stress. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 24 months refrigerated (5±3 
ºC) in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is a white to off-white powder or cake containing bortezomib as active substance and 
comes in clear type I glass vials with grey chlorobutyl rubber stoppers. It is reconstituted with 0.9% w/v 
sodium chloride solution for injection, although the diluent is not provided. The reconstituted finished 
product is clear, colourless solution.  
The purpose of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a generic formulation of Bortezomib 3.5 
mg/vial Powder for Solution for Injection which is equivalent to the reference product, Velcade. The 
proposed formulation has the same pharmaceutical form, qualitative and quantitative composition as the 
reference product.  
Bortezomib is practically insoluble in aqueous media but can be dissolved in water with the addition of an 
alcoholic  co-solvent.  Different  polymorphic  forms  are  known,  although  these  are  not  relevant  as  the 
active  substance  is  dissolved  during  finished  product  manufacture.  The  active  substance  is 
photosensitive. 
As for the reference product, mannitol is the only excipient used, as a bulking agent, and forms a boronic 
ester with bortezomib during formulation. NMR data was submitted to demonstrate that the test and 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 11/25 
 
 
 
reference product formulations contain equivalent amounts of boronic aster and free boronic acid. 
Mannitol is a well-known pharmaceutical ingredient and its quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. 
There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in 
section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report.  
No bioequivalence study was required since the finished product is a parenteral dosage form and is 
administered as an aqueous solution containing the same active substance in the same concentration as 
the reference product. 
Some  aspects  of  quality  by  design  (QbD)  were  applied  to  develop  a  generic  finished  product  that  is 
pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent to the reference medicinal product. The quality target 
product profile (QTPP) was defined on the basis of reference product label, characterization of reference 
product and pharmacopoeial and parenteral requirements. 
The critical quality attributes (CQAs) were identified based on the QTPP. A risk assessment was conducted 
to  evaluate  the  impact  of  active  substance  and  excipient  attributes,  process  parameters,  process 
equipment  and  packaging  components  on  these  CQAs  and  the  outcome  was  used  to  guide  further 
investigations. Development studies were performed on those factors considered most likely to impact 
the finished product CQAs. The manufacturing process development studies were performed together 
with the formulation development. The proposed materials of the formulation vessels, filters, and tubing 
are  compatible  with  the  finished  product  and  do  not  result  in  untoward  extractables  and  leachables. 
Terminal sterilization is not possible, given the lyophilized formulation, so sterile filtration and subsequent 
aseptic  processing  is  required.  Drawing  on  these  conclusions,  the  processes  for  preparation  of  bulk 
solution and sterile filtration were optimised to minimise degradation and ensure a sterile product and 
that a readily soluble cake is formed. 
The  primary  packaging  is  clear  type  I  glass  vials  with  grey  chlorobutyl  rubber  stoppers  and  blue 
aluminium flip-off overseals. The materials comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the 
container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the 
product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of four main steps: compounding, sterile filtration, lyophilization, and 
packaging. The process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  on  3  consecutive  production  scale  batches  of  finished 
product. Holding time, filter validation, container closure integrity and media fill studies were conducted 
as  part  of  the  validation.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of 
producing  the  finished  product  of  intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  in-process  controls 
applied during compounding, filtration, filling and following lyophilization are adequate for this type of 
manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form including 
description,  identity  (UV,  HPLC),  water  content  (Ph.  Eur.),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph.  Eur.), 
reconstituted solution properties (time, appearance, colour, pH, clarity and particulate matter (Ph. Eur.)), 
bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), sterility (Ph. Eur.),  related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual 
solvents (GC) and seal integrity (in-house). 
Limits for impurities and residual solvents have been adequately justified. Assessment of elemental 
impurities was performed during the pharmaceutical development according the ICH Q3D, considering 
the active substance manufacturing process, raw materials, equipment and container closure system and 
the risk of their presence was considered to be low. Furthermore, 3 batches of finished product were 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 12/25 
 
 
 
tested for relevant elemental impurities demonstrating that none are detected above the limit of 
quantitation (LoQ) which was below 30% of the PDE for each element. The information on the control of 
elemental impurities is satisfactory. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results were provided for 3 production scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification. The finished 
product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional final 
product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 3 production scale batches of finished product stored for up to 12 months under long 
term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) 
according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches are identical to those proposed for marketing 
and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing. Samples were tested for description, 
water content, reconstituted solution properties, related substances and assay. Seal integrity was tested 
instead of sterility and bacterial endotoxins. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. There 
were no significant trends to most parameters under either long term or accelerated conditions. There 
was a slight increase in two impurities (and total impurities), more so at higher temperature/humidity, 
but  the  increase  was  well  within  the  specification  limits.  The  product  is  considered  to  be  physically, 
chemically, and microbiologically stable. 
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of 
New Drug Substances and Products. The finished product is photosensitive and degradation is observed 
in the primary packaging. However, the secondary carton was shown to provide sufficient protection from 
light. 
A thermal cycling study was performed on 1 batch at 2-8 °C for two days, followed by 40°C/75% RH for 
two days, and at -20 °C for two days, followed by 40 °C/75% RH for two days. A thermal excursion study 
was performed on 1 batch for two weeks at -20 °C, 2-8 °C and at 60 °C. The stability of the finished 
product was found to be well within the defined limits during both studies. 
A reconstitution stability study was conducted on 3 batches of finished product. These were reconstituted 
with either 3.5 ml (for intravenous use) or 1.4 ml (for subcutaneous use) of sterile 0.9% sodium chloride 
solution  for  injection  to  give  a  solution  containing  either  1  mg/ml  or  2.5  mg/ml  of  bortezomib, 
respectively. The study was conducted in vials as well as in syringes at 25 °C/60% RH for 96 hours and 
at 2-8 oC for 8 days. The reconstituted solutions were found to be stable both in the vials and syringes. 
Since the finished product contains no preservative, aseptic technique is mandated during preparation of 
the reconstituted solutions. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months without special storage conditions 
as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is acceptable. 
The chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution has been demonstrated at 
concentrations of 1 mg/ml and 2.5 mg/ml for 96 hours at 25 °C and 8 days at 2-8°C, when stored in the 
original vial and/or a syringe. 
From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately after 
preparation. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 13/25 
 
 
 
responsibility of the user. The total storage time for the reconstituted medicinal product should not 
exceed 96 hours (if stored at 25 °C) and 8 days (if stored at 2-8 °C) prior to administration. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. The major objections on the 
lack of active substance clarification data, uncertainty about the nature of the isolated active substance, 
and the consequent potential impact on bortezomib content of the finished product were convincingly 
resolved during the procedure. Clear instructions for preparation and handling of the reconstituted 
solutions have been included in the SmPC. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi manufactured by Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH is 
considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all bortezomib 
containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is 
expected to be similar. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 14/25 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and 
toxicology data. Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
The impurity profile of applicant’s bortezomib is comparable to that of Velcade. Thus, additional 
toxicology studies to qualify the impurity profile of the drug product are not required. 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the applicant has justified the absence of non-clinical studies based on the 
literature review and the claim that Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is a generic of the reference product 
Velcade. The literature data presented in the dossier is considered acceptable and sufficient for the 
assessment of non-clinical aspects of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi in the applied indications. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided. The Clinical 
sections of the SmPC of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi are in accordance with the reference product Velcade 
3.5 mg powder for solution for injection, Janssen-Cilag International NV, a Centralized product 
EMEA/H/C/000539, the date of authorisation is 2004-04-26.  
Relevant for the assessment are the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **).  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product. The 
CHMP considers that the clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety is adequate. 
Exemption  
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application. According to Appendix II to the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **), 
bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous 
intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product. This is the 
case here. Both products, generic product Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi and the reference product Velcade, 
contain 3.5 mg of the same active substance, bortezomib (as mannitol boronic ester), and the same 
excipients (mannitol E421 and nitrogen). Therefore, it is concluded that there is no difference between 
the Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi and Velcade. A bioequivalence study is not required. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 15/25 
 
 
 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The clinical overview on the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided and is adequate.  
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application, this is in accordance with the Appendix 
II to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **). 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is considered essentially similar to Velcade, Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi and justifications 
that the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of 
the reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the 
relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Summary of safety concerns 
The applicant identifies the following safety concerns in the RMP: 
Table 1: Summary of safety concerns: 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
− Heart failure 
− Hepatotoxicity 
− Acute hypersensitivity reactions 
− Tumour lysis syndrome 
− Peripheral motor neuropathy (including paralysis) 
− Autonomic neuropathy 
− Acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary disease 
− Pericardial disease 
− Pulmonary hypertension 
− Herpes zoster infection 
− Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
− Optic neuropathy and different degrees of visual impairment (up to 
blindness) 
−Thrombocytopenia  and  and  thrombocytopenia  with  associated 
bleeding 
− Neutropenia and neutropenia with associated infection 
− Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
− Ventricular rhythm abnormalities 
− Guillain-Barré syndrome 
− Other central nervous system disorders 
− Medication/dispensing errors 
− Safety in patients with cardiac impairment or with NYHA 
Class III or IV impairment 
− Safety in patients with ECOG>2 
− Second primary malignancies with VcTD induction therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 16/25 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
The applicant has submitted on 08 August 2019 an updated version of the RMP (ver.1.2 data) as part of 
the responses to the 180 LoOI.  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities are planned by the applicant.  
In line with originator, the applicant updated the relevant sections of RMP with further activities still 
considered to be routine in line of the reference medical product, in particular the applicant implemented 
the following Routine pharmacovigilance activities: 
- Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy: a questionnaire to gather more information on the 
individual Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) cases and close monitoring at regular 
intervals for any new or worsening neurological symptoms or signs suggestive of PML in patient treated 
with Bortezomib) for early detection and management of PML to evaluate case reports with relevant 
neurological findings, which could be indicative of PML. 
- Second primary malignancies with BzTD induction therapy: to characterize case reports of second 
primary malignancies when bortezomib is given in combination with thalidomide. 
- Medication/dispensing errors: Ongoing monitoring with routine pharmacovigilance activities including a 
targeted follow-up questionnaire 
- Optic neuropathy: Ongoing monitoring with routine pharmacovigilance activities including a targeted 
follow-up questionnaire For Patients Who Develop Visual Problems 
Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 17/25 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 18/25 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 19/25 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 20/25 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 21/25 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Carboplatin 10 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
for visual analysis and Velcade 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection for content analysis. The bridging 
report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 22/25 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of bortezomib, 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection. The 
reference product Velcade is indicated for : 
Velcade as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have received at 
least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated for the 
induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible for high 
dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is favourable in the following indication: 
- Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who 
have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
- Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
- Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and 
thalidomide, is indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple 
myeloma who are eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
- Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and 
prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell 
lymphoma who are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, 
and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 23/25 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
In each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree the content and format of 
the educational material with the national competent authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that all healthcare professionals involved in the prescribing, dispensing, handling or 
administration of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi are provided with educational material.  
The educational material shall consist of the following:  
•  SmPC  
•  Reconstitution, dosing and administration booklet  
•  Reconstitution poster  
•  Dosing Slide Rule  
• 
Induction Transplant Regimens Graph.  
The Reconstitution, dosing and administration booklet shall contain the following key elements:  
•  Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 3.5 mg can be administered both intravenously and subcutaneously, 
while Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 1 mg can be administered only intravenously  
•  different reconstitution requirements for intravenous or subcutaneous use  
•  dosing instructions and examples: how to calculate the body surface area of a patient and the 
volume of reconstituted Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi (both intravenous and subcutaneous use) 
required for different body surface areas (cross reference to Dosing Slide Rule)  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
•  advice on method of administration for both intravenous and subcutaneous use, including the 
need to rotate injection sites for subcutaneous use  
• 
storage precautions for reconstituted solution  
•  potential risks of administration errors including overdosing, underdosing and that inadvertent 
intrathecal administration has resulted in death  
• 
to report any adverse event, or medication error experienced with the administration of 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi.  
The Reconstitution poster shall contain the following key elements:  
•  different reconstitution requirements for Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 3.5 mg intravenous or 
subcutaneous use  
•  need to handling the medicinal product in sterile setting  
• 
storage precautions for reconstituted solution  
•  advice on how to reduce the risk of mix-up of intravenous and subcutaneous reconstituted 
syringes  
• 
• 
• 
that Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is to be given only by intravenous or subcutaneous injections; no 
other route of administration is allowed  
that Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 1 mg is only for intravenous use  
to report any adverse event, or medication error experienced with the administration of 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi.  
Dosing Slide Rule shall contain the following key elements:  
•  a dose-calculation tool that enables prescribers to input a patient’s height and weight in order to 
calculate the body surface area (BSA) and thereby to determine the appropriate Bortezomib 
Fresenius Kabi dose.  
•  different reconstitution requirements for intravenous or subcutaneous use  
•  dosing instructions and examples: how to calculate the body surface area of a patient and the 
volume of reconstituted Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi (both intravenous and subcutaneous use) 
required for different body surface areas.  
Induction Transplant Regimens Graph shall contain the following key elements:  
• 
instructions for prescribing and administration including the cycles’ length and number of cycles, 
to minimise the risk of medication and dispensing errors potentially induced by the existence of 
the two different bortezomib combination regimens in the Transplant Induction Setting 
(Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi plus dexamethasone, and Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi plus 
dexamethasone and thalidomide). 
• 
to remind that patients receiving Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi in combination with thalidomide 
should adhere to the pregnancy prevention programme of thalidomide, with reference to the 
SmPC of thalidomide for additional information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/552819/2019  
Page 25/25 
 
 
 
 
