13 December 2018 
EMA/169116/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): bortezomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000424/201804 
Period covered by the PSUR: 26 April 2017 – 25 April 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for bortezomib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Following a review of post-marketing cases and literature reports for the period covered by this PSUR, 158 
cases of “Lid, lash and lacrimal infections, irritations and inflammations” were retrieved in patients who 
received bortezomib. Of those, 121 cases reported chalazion, blepharitis, meibomianitis, and/or 
Meibomian gland dysfunction. A biological plausibility supports the association between bortezomib and 
chalazion/blepharitis; theoretically, bortezomib-related myelosuppression may facilitate viral infections 
such as herpes zoster thereby promoting chalazia. Based on this review, chalazion/blepharitis is 
considered associated with the use of bortezomib.  
In addition, following a search of the worldwide medical and scientific literature carried out for the period 
covered by this PSUSA and a number of papers reporting safety information, 35 cases of Thrombotic 
Microangiopathy (TMA) were retrieved. Overall, the literature results are suggestive of a possible causal 
association between bortezomib (and other proteasome inhibitors) and TMA. 
Based on the data presented, the PRAC was of the view that the product information should be varied to 
update Section 4.8 the SmPC and relevant section of the package leaflet to add the following: chalazion, 
blepharitis abd Thrombotic Microangiopathy. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for bortezomib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing bortezomib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/169116/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
