EMA/404258/2018 
EMEA/H/C/003984 
Bortezomib Accord (bortezomib) 
An overview of Bortezomib Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Bortezomib Accord and what is it used for? 
Bortezomib Accord is a cancer medicine used to treat multiple myeloma, a blood cancer, in the 
following groups of patients: 
• 
• 
• 
adults whose disease is getting worse after at least one other treatment and who have already 
had, or cannot have, blood stem-cell transplantation. In these patients, Bortezomib Accord is used 
either on its own or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone; 
previously untreated adults who cannot have high-dose chemotherapy with blood stem-cell 
transplantation. In these patients, Bortezomib Accord is used in combination with melphalan and 
prednisone; 
previously untreated adults who are going to receive high-dose chemotherapy followed by blood 
stem-cell transplantation. In this group of patients, Bortezomib Accord is used in combination with 
dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone plus thalidomide. 
Bortezomib Accord is also used to treat mantle cell lymphoma, another blood cancer, in untreated 
adults who cannot have blood stem-cell transplantation. For mantle cell lymphoma, Bortezomib Accord 
is used in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone. 
Bortezomib Accord contains the active substance bortezomib. 
Bortezomib Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Bortezomib Accord contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU 
called Velcade. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
How is Bortezomib Accord used? 
Bortezomib Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started and 
given under the supervision of a doctor who has experience in the use of cancer chemotherapy.  
Bortezomib Accord is available as a 1 mg injection to be given into a vein or a 3.5 mg injection to be 
injected into a vein or under the skin. Bortezomib Accord must not be given in any other way.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The dose of Bortezomib Accord is calculated using the patient’s height and weight. When given into a 
vein, it is injected through a catheter (a thin sterile tube) over 3 to 5 seconds. At least 72 hours must 
pass between two doses of Bortezomib Accord. When injected under the skin, it is given in the thigh or 
abdomen (belly).  
Doses of Bortezomib Accord are given with rest periods between doses, in treatment cycles of 3 to 6 
weeks depending on whether Bortezomib Accord is given alone or in combination with other medicines. 
If a patient develops severe side effects, the treatment must be stopped, delayed or the dose 
adjusted.  
For more information about using Bortezomib Accord, see the package leaflet or contact a doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Bortezomib Accord work? 
The active substance in Bortezomib Accord, bortezomib, is a proteasome inhibitor. It blocks the 
proteasome system, which breaks down proteins within cells that are no longer needed. Blocking the 
proteasome system causes the cell to die. Cancer cells are more sensitive to disruption by proteasome 
inhibitors than normal cells and, therefore, to the effects of bortezomib. 
How has Bortezomib Accord been studied? 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Bortezomib Accord. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Bortezomib Accord is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
when Bortezomib Accord is given by injection into a vein, the active substance is delivered straight into 
the bloodstream. Also, the composition of Bortezomib Accord is the same as the reference medicine 
and when given by injection under the skin, the active substance in both products is expected to be 
absorbed in the same way. 
What are the benefits and risks of Bortezomib Accord? 
Because Bortezomib Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Bortezomib Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Bortezomib 
Accord has been shown to be comparable to Velcade. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Velcade, the benefit of Bortezomib Accord outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bortezomib Accord? 
The company that markets Bortezomib Accord will supply educational material to healthcare 
professionals which explains how to calculate the dose and how to prepare and give the medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bortezomib Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Bortezomib Accord (bortezomib)  
EMA/404258/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bortezomib Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Bortezomib Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Bortezomib Accord 
Bortezomib Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 July 2015. 
Further information on Bortezomib Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2018. 
Bortezomib Accord (bortezomib)  
EMA/404258/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
