EMA/CHMP/379917/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004076 
EPAR summary for the public 
Bortezomib Sun 
bortezomib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Bortezomib Sun. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Bortezomib Sun. 
For practical information about using Bortezomib Sun, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Bortezomib Sun and what is it used for? 
Bortezomib Sun is a cancer medicine used to treat multiple myeloma, a blood cancer, in the following 
groups of patients: 
• 
• 
• 
adults whose disease is getting worse after at least one other treatment and who have already 
had, or cannot undergo, blood stem-cell transplantation. Bortezomib Sun is either used on its own 
in these patients or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone; 
previously untreated adults who cannot have high-dose chemotherapy with blood stem-cell 
transplantation. In these patients, Bortezomib Sun is used in combination with melphalan and 
prednisone; 
previously untreated adults who are going to receive high-dose chemotherapy followed by blood 
stem-cell transplantation. In this group of patients, Bortezomib Sun is used in combination with 
dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone plus thalidomide. 
Bortezomib Sun is also used to treat mantle cell lymphoma, another blood cancer, in untreated adults 
who cannot have blood stem-cell transplantation. For mantle cell lymphoma, Bortezomib Sun is used in 
combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Bortezomib Sun is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Bortezomib Sun is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Velcade. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Bortezomib Sun contains the active substance bortezomib. 
How is Bortezomib Sun used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started and given 
under the supervision of a doctor who has experience in the use of cancer chemotherapy. 
Bortezomib Sun is available in vials as a 3.5 mg powder to be made up into a solution for injection into 
a vein or under the skin. Bortezomib Sun must not be given by other routes. 
The recommended dose is calculated using the patient’s height and weight). When given into a vein, 
the solution is injected through a catheter (a thin sterile tube). At least 72 hours must pass between 
two doses of Bortezomib Sun. When injected under the skin, it is given in the thigh or abdomen 
(tummy). 
Doses of Bortezomib Sun are given with rest periods between doses, in treatment cycles of three to six 
weeks depending on whether Bortezomib Sun is given alone or in combination with other medicines. If 
a patient develops severe side effects, treatment must be discontinued, delayed or the dose adjusted. 
Patients with moderate or severe liver problems should be treated with lower doses. For more 
information on the use of Bortezomib Sun see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the 
EPAR). 
How does Bortezomib Sun work? 
The active substance in Bortezomib Sun, bortezomib, is a proteasome inhibitor. It blocks proteasome, 
which is a system in cells that breaks down proteins that are no longer needed. Blocking the 
proteasome system causes the cell to die. Cancer cells are more sensitive than normal cells to the 
effects of proteasome inhibitors like bortezomib. 
How has Bortezomib Sun been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on bortezomib. No additional studies were 
needed as Bortezomib Sun is a generic medicine that is given by injection and contains the same 
active substance as the reference medicine, Velcade. 
What are the benefits and risks of Bortezomib Sun? 
Because Bortezomib Sun is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Bortezomib Sun approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Bortezomib Sun has been shown to be comparable to Velcade. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for Velcade, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee 
recommended that Bortezomib Sun be approved for use in the EU. 
Bortezomib Sun  
EMA/CHMP/379917/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bortezomib Sun? 
The company that markets Bortezomib Sun will supply educational material to healthcare professionals 
on making up and giving the injection, calculating the dose, and prescribing and giving the correct 
treatment for patients receiving blood stem-cell transplantation. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bortezomib Sun have also been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet.   
Other information about Bortezomib Sun 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Bortezomib Sun on 22 July 2016. 
The full EPAR for Bortezomib Sun can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Bortezomib Sun, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2016. 
Bortezomib Sun  
EMA/CHMP/379917/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
