EMA/449387/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Bortezomib Accord (bortezomib) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Bortezomib Accord, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Bortezomib Accord is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Bortezomib Accord, which can be found on Bortezomib Accord’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Bortezomib Accord is a medicine used to treat adults with multiple myeloma and mantle cell 
lymphoma. 
Multiple myeloma 
Multiple myeloma (also known as plasma cell myeloma) is a cancer of a type of white blood cell called 
plasma cells. The risk of multiple myeloma is higher in older people, males and black people. The risk 
is 2–3 times higher in those people whose parents, siblings or children have myeloma. This risk may 
be tripled in patients who have undergone organ transplantation. 
It is estimated that about 86,000 cases of multiple myeloma occur annually worldwide, accounting for 
about 0.8% of all new cancer cases. About 63,000 patients are reported to die from the disease each 
year, accounting for 0.9% of all cancer deaths. 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Mantle cell lymphoma belongs to a group of cancers called non-Hodgkin lymphomas that affect a type 
of white blood cell called B lymphocytes, or B cells. It is a rare disease that affects less than 1 in 
100,000 people throughout the world. Mantle cell lymphoma occurs more frequently in older adults, 
the average age at diagnosis being in the mid-60s. It is more common in men than women, and white 
people are at a higher risk than black people. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Bortezomib Accord contains the active substance bortezomib and is available in vials as a 3.5 mg 
powder to be made up into a solution for injection into a vein or under the skin. Bortezomib Accord is a 
‘generic medicine’. This means that Bortezomib Accord is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Velcade. 
Because Bortezomib Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. No additional studies have been performed with Bortezomib Accord as this is 
a generic medicine that is given by injection and contains the same active substance as the reference 
medicine, Velcade. 
Page 1/8 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Bortezomib Accord has not been studied in patients with severe heart failure (NYHA class III or IV), in 
patients who can no longer fully care for themselves or are completely disabled (with ECOG status 
above 2) and patients with other primary cancers following treatment with Velcade, thalidomide and 
dexamethasone. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Preventability 
Heart failure 
Heart failure has been reported in patients 
Patients with risk factors for 
treated with bortezomib (affecting up to one 
or existing heart disease 
in 100 patients). Fluid retention is a risk 
should be closely monitored. 
factor for heart failure. 
Before starting therapy with 
Bortezomib Accord, patients 
should inform their doctor of 
previous or existing heart or 
blood pressure problems. 
Liver toxicity 
Bortezomib can cause swelling of the liver, 
Before starting treatment with 
(hepatotoxicity) 
bleeding from the liver or alteration of liver 
Bortezomib Accord, patients 
function. Rare cases of hepatic failure have 
should inform their doctor of 
been reported in patients receiving 
previous or existing liver 
bortezomib at the same time as other 
problems including hepatitis. 
medicines and with serious underlying 
Patient with moderate or 
medical conditions.  
Patients who have had hepatitis B might 
have a repeated attack of hepatitis, which 
can be fatal. 
severe liver impairment 
should receive a reduced dose 
of Bortezomib Accord. 
If patients develop hepatitis 
or have increased liver 
enzymes in their blood 
treatment with Bortezomib 
Accord should be interrupted. 
Doctors should carefully check 
patients with a history of 
hepatitis B for signs of active 
hepatitis B. Prevention with 
an antiviral medicine should 
be considered. 
Severe allergic 
Severe cases of allergic reactions have been 
Bortezomib Accord must not 
reaction (acute 
reported with bortezomib (affecting up to 1 
be used in patients allergic to 
hypersensitivity 
in 100 patients). 
reaction) 
bortezomib, boron or any of 
the other ingredients of this 
medicine. 
Patients should contact their 
doctor immediately if they 
Page 2/8 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Preventability 
develop any of the following 
signs and symptoms which 
could indicate an allergic 
reaction: difficulty breathing, 
chest pain or chest tightness, 
feeling dizzy/faint, severe 
itching of the skin or raised 
lumps on the skin, swelling of 
the face, lips, tongue or 
throat, which may cause 
difficulty in swallowing. 
A condition that is 
Bortezomib can result in the cancer cells 
Since the patients at risk of 
caused by the 
being destroyed very quickly, which can 
tumour lysis syndrome are 
breakdown of 
disturb the blood flow (tumour lysis 
those with high tumour 
cancer cells 
syndrome). Symptoms may include muscle 
burden prior to treatment, 
(tumour lysis 
pain, muscle cramps and weakness, pain in 
these patients should be 
syndrome) 
the limbs, shortness of breath, confusion, 
monitored closely and 
memory impairment or loss, partial or total 
appropriate precautions 
loss of vision. 
taken. 
Symptoms of tumour lysis syndrome have 
Patients should inform their 
been reported uncommonly (in up to 1 
doctor if they have symptoms 
patient in 100) in patients treated with 
of tumour lysis syndrome. 
bortezomib for multiple myeloma or mantle 
cell lymphoma. 
Nerve damage 
Patients receiving bortezomib may 
Patients should be carefully 
which may affect 
experience very common side effects due to 
monitored for symptoms of 
sensation, 
nerve damage (which may affect more than 
nerve damage. Patients 
movement, gland 
1 in 10 people) such as sensitivity, 
experiencing new or 
or organ function 
numbness, tingling or burning sensation of 
worsening nerve damage may 
(peripheral motor 
the skin, or pain in the hands and feet. In 
require a change in dose or 
neuropathy 
patients receiving bortezomib for multiple 
the way the medicine is given 
including 
paralysis) 
myeloma the following side effects have 
(patients may receive the 
been reported uncommonly (in up to 1 in 
medicine under the skin 
100 people): paralysis, seizure (fit), falls, 
instead of through a vein). 
movement disorders, abnormal or reduced 
sensation (feeling, hearing, tasting, 
smelling), attention disturbance, trembling 
and twitching. 
Damage to the 
Bortezomib can lead to postural 
Bortezomib Accord should be 
nerves that 
hypotension (sudden fall of blood pressure 
used with caution in patients 
manage 
when standing up) and abnormal bowel 
with a history of syncope 
involuntary body 
function (such as constipation or diarrhoea).  
(fainting) when receiving 
functions such as 
blood pressure, 
heart rate, bowel 
medicines known to be 
associated with hypotension 
(low blood pressure), or who 
Page 3/8 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Preventability 
and bladder 
emptying, and 
digestion 
(autonomic 
neuropathy) 
are dehydrated due to 
recurrent diarrhoea or 
vomiting. 
Patients should be instructed 
to seek medical advice if they 
experience symptoms of 
dizziness, light-headedness or 
fainting spells. 
Group of lung 
Cases of acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary 
Bortezomib Accord must not 
disorders in which 
disease (such as pneumonitis, interstitial 
be used in patients with acute 
the tissues of the 
pneumonia, lung infiltration, and acute 
diffuse infiltrative pulmonary 
lungs become 
respiratory distress syndrome) have been 
disease. 
inflamed (acute 
reported rarely in patients receiving 
diffuse infiltrative 
bortezomib (affecting up to one in 10,000 
pulmonary 
disease) 
patients). Some of these events have been 
fatal. 
Before receiving Bortezomib 
Accord patients should have a 
chest X-ray. 
In case patients develop 
symptoms of acute diffuse 
infiltrative pulmonary disease 
(such as difficulty breathing, 
shortness of breath, shortness 
of breath without exercise, 
breathing that becomes 
shallow, difficult or stops, 
wheezing) doctors should 
evaluate and treat patients 
promptly.  
Disorder affecting 
Bortezomib can lead to inflammation of the 
Bortezomib Accord must not 
the sac that 
sac that surrounds the heart or fluid around 
be used in patients with 
surrounds the 
the heart causing symptoms such as chest 
pericardial disease. 
heart (pericardial 
discomfort. 
disease) 
Patients should inform their 
doctor of existing or previous 
heart problems. 
Increase of blood 
Bortezomib can lead to an increase in the 
Patients should inform their 
pressure in the 
blood pressure in the blood vessels in the 
doctor if they have any heart 
blood vessels of 
lungs. 
or blood pressure problems. 
the lungs 
(pulmonary 
hypertension) 
An infection called 
Infection with varicella-zoster virus causes 
Patients should inform their 
shingles resulting 
chickenpox. Once the illness resolves, the 
doctor if symptoms of 
from reactivation 
virus remains dormant and can reactivate 
shingles develop (numbness, 
of the varicella-
later in a person’s life and cause shingles. 
itching, tingling or a burning 
zoster virus, the 
same virus that 
Shingles have been reported commonly (in 
pain in one part of the body 
Page 4/8 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Preventability 
causes chickenpox 
up to 1 in 10 people) in patients receiving 
or face). 
(herpes zoster 
bortezomib. 
infection) 
Prevention with an antiviral 
medicine is recommended in 
patients treated with 
Bortezomib Accord. 
A neurological 
Bortezomib can lead to PRES, a severe 
Bortezomib Accord should be 
syndrome called 
reversible brain condition which causes 
discontinued in patients 
posterior 
reversible 
seizures (fits), high blood pressure, 
developing PRES. 
headaches, tiredness, confusion, blindness 
encephalopathy 
or other vision problems. 
syndrome (PRES) 
Patients should inform their 
doctor in case of past history 
of seizures, memory loss, 
trouble thinking, difficulty 
with walking or loss of vision. 
Damage to the 
Bortezomib can cause abnormal vision, 
Patients should inform their 
optic nerve (optic 
visual loss or visual disturbances. 
doctor if they develop 
neuropathy) and 
different degrees 
of visual 
impairment (up to 
blindness) 
symptoms of visual 
impairment. 
Low blood platelet 
Bortezomib can cause a decrease in the 
Patients should inform their 
counts and 
associated 
bleeding 
numbers of platelets (cells involved in 
doctor if they have bleeding 
clotting) in the blood. This may make 
problems and/or a low 
patient more prone to bruising, or to 
number of platelets in blood. 
(thrombocytopenia 
bleeding without obvious injury (e.g. 
and 
bleeding from the bowels, stomach, mouth 
thrombocytopenia 
and gum or bleeding in the brain or from 
with associated 
the liver). 
bleeding) 
Patients have to undergo 
regular blood test before and 
during Bortezomib Accord 
therapy. 
Low white blood 
Bortezomib can cause a decrease in the 
Patients should inform their 
cell counts and 
numbers of white blood cells. This may 
doctor if they have a low 
associated 
infection 
(neutropenia and 
neutropenia with 
associated 
infection) 
make patients more prone to infections or 
number of white blood cells. 
flu-like symptoms. 
Patients have to undergo 
regular blood tests before and 
during Bortezomib Accord 
therapy. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
A rare brain infection caused 
Very rare cases of John Cunningham (JC) virus infection with 
by the John Cunningham virus 
unknown causality, resulting in PML and death, have been 
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
(JCV) (progressive multifocal 
reported in patients treated with bortezomib. Patients diagnosed 
leukoencephalopathy, PML) 
with PML had prior or simultaneous immunosuppressive therapy. 
Most cases of PML were diagnosed within 12 months of the first 
dose of bortezomib. 
Patients should be monitored at regular intervals for any new or 
worsening symptoms or signs that may be suggestive of PML. If a 
diagnosis of PML is suspected, patients should be referred to a 
specialist in PML and appropriate diagnostic measures for PML 
should be initiated. Bortezomib Accord should be stopped if PML 
is diagnosed. 
Abnormal heart rhythm 
Bortezomib can lead to irregular rhythm and dysfunction of the 
(ventricular rhythm 
ventricles of the heart. 
abnormalities) 
An immune system disorder 
Cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome have been reported in patients 
that causes multiple 
treated with bortezomib; however, a causal relationship has not 
inflammations of the nerves 
been established. 
(Guillain-Barré syndrome) 
Other disorders affecting the 
Bortezomib can lead to seizures, falling, movement disorders, 
brain and nerves 
abnormal or reduced sensation (feeling, hearing, tasting, 
smelling), attention disturbance, trembling, twitching, altered 
levels of consciousness, confusion, memory impairment or loss. 
Medication/dispensing errors 
Bortezomib Accord must be given under the supervision of a 
healthcare professional experienced in the use of cancer 
chemotherapy. 
Bortezomib Accord powder has to be dissolved before 
administration. This must be done by a healthcare professional. 
The resulting solution is then either injected into a vein or under 
the skin. Injection into a vein is rapid, taking 3 to 5 seconds. 
Injection under the skin is in either the thighs or the abdomen 
(tummy). There have been cases of administration errors that 
occurred with bortezomib, where the medicine was accidentally 
given intrathecally (into the space that surrounds the spinal 
cord). Bortezomib should not be given intrathecally. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Safety in patients with severe 
Bortezomib should not be used in patients with severe heart 
heart problems (cardiac 
problems. 
impairment or with NYHA 
Class III or IV impairment) 
Safety in patients with ECOG 
Patients with ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) status 
above 2 are patients that are capable of only limited self-care or 
Page 6/8 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
status above 2 
are completely disabled. 
Further information about safety in this population is needed to 
provide confirmation about the presence of a risk. 
Patients with other primary 
Although chemotherapy aims to destroy tumour cells, it may also 
cancers following treatment 
damage normal cells causing other primary cancers that are 
with Velcade, thalidomide, 
unrelated to the original tumour. 
dexamethasone 
Avoiding or limiting the treatment may prevent new cancers. 
Doctor should monitor treatment to control risks.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Bortezomib Accord can be found on Bortezomib Accord’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Bortezomib Accord’s 
EPAR page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between 
the marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Medication/dispensing errors 
Risk minimisation measure: Healthcare professional education material 
Objective and rationale: To inform healthcare professionals of how to correctly prescribe, dispense, 
reconstitute and administer bortezomib and how to minimise the occurrence of medication errors. 
Description: 
The healthcare professional education material will include: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Reconstitution, dosing and administration booklet 
•  Reconstitution poster 
•  Dosing slide rule 
• 
Induction transplant regimens graphs 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
No studies are planned. 
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
