21 May 2015 
EMA/449381/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Bortezomib Accord  
International non-proprietary name: bortezomib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003984/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product .................................................................................. 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 11 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 11 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 11 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 11 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 11 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 11 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 12 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 12 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 12 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 13 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 13 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 13 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 13 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 13 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 13 
2.6. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 14 
2.7. PSUR submission ................................................................................................ 17 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 17 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 17 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 18 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 18 
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CHMP        Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
ECOG        Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
ERA           Environmental Risk Assessment 
HCP           Healthcare Professional 
IV              Intravenous 
MAH           Marketing Authorization Holder 
MSL           Medical and Scientific Liaisons 
NYHA         New York Heart Association 
PRAC         Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
SC             Subcutaneous 
SmPC        Summary of Product Characteristics 
VcTD         Velcade (bortezomib), thalidomide, dexamethasone 
Page 3/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare Ltd submitted on 4 June 2014 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Bortezomib Accord, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 20 March 
2014. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
•  Bortezomib  Accord  as  monotherapy  or  in  combination  with  pegylated  liposomal  doxorubicin  or 
dexamethasone  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  progressive  multiple 
myeloma  who  have  received  at  least  1  prior  therapy  and  who  have  already  undergone  or  are 
unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
•  Bortezomib Accord in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
•  Bortezomib  Accord  in  combination  with  dexamethasone,  or  with  dexamethasone  and 
thalidomide, is indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated 
multiple  myeloma  who  are  eligible  for  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  haematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplantation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC) 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data instead of 
non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: VELCADE 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: JANSSEN-CILAG INTERNATIONAL NV, Belgium 
Date of authorisation:  28-04-2004 
Page 4/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/274/001 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: VELCADE 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: JANSSEN-CILAG INTERNATIONAL NV, Belgium 
Date of authorisation:  28-04-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/274/001 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers  
Manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Ltd. 
Sage House 
319 Pinner Road 
North Harrow, Middlesex 
HA1 4HF 
United Kingdom 
Wessling Hungary Kft. 
Fòti ùt 56 
Budapest 
1047 
Hungary 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Milena Stain 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 June 2014.  
The procedure started on 25 June 2014. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 
September 2014. 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 9 October 2014. 
During the meeting on 23 October 2014 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. 
Page 5/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 
January 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 2 March 2015.  
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 12 March. 
During the CHMP meeting on 26 March 2015 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
20 April 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 28 April 2015. 
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 7 May 2015. 
During the meeting on 21 May 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Bortezomib Accord. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This centralised marketing authorisation application concerns the generic product Bortezomib Accord 
3.5 mg powder for solution for injection. The application is submitted under Article 10(1) (‘generic’ of a 
reference medicinal product) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. The reference medicinal product is 
Velcade 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection, Janssen-Cilag International NV Belgium, originally 
authorised in the EU on 28th April 2004.  
Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor. It is specifically designed to inhibit the chymotrypsin like activity 
of the 26S proteasome in mammalian cells. The 26S proteasome is a large protein complex that 
degrades ubiquitinated proteins. The ubiquitin proteasome pathway plays an essential role in 
regulating the turnover of specific proteins, thereby maintaining homeostasis within cells. Inhibition of 
the 26S proteasome prevents this targeted proteolysis and affects multiple signalling cascades within 
the cell, ultimately resulting in cancer cell death. 
Bortezomib is highly selective for the proteasome. At 10 µM concentrations, bortezomib does not 
inhibit any of a wide variety of receptors and proteases screened and is more than 1,500 fold more 
selective for the proteasome than for its next preferable enzyme. The kinetics of proteasome inhibition 
were evaluated in vitro, and bortezomib was shown to dissociate from the proteasome with a t½ of 20 
minutes, thus demonstrating that proteasome inhibition by bortezomib is reversible. 
Bortezomib mediated proteasome inhibition affects cancer cells in a number of ways, including, but not 
limited to, altering regulatory proteins, which control cell cycle progression and nuclear factor kappa B 
(NF kB) activation. Inhibition of the proteasome results in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. NF kB is a 
transcription factor whose activation is required for many aspects of tumourigenesis, including cell 
growth and survival, angiogenesis, cell-cell interactions, and metastasis. In myeloma, bortezomib 
affects the ability of myeloma cells to interact with the bone marrow microenvironment. 
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Bortezomib Accord as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who 
have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Accord in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Accord in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is 
indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma 
who are eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
The final indication agreed by the CHMP is as follows: 
Bortezomib Accord as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who 
have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Accord in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Accord in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is 
indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma 
who are eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib Accord in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are 
unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
The MCL indication was introduced during the assessment in order to align the PI with the extended 
indication of Velcade. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for solution for injection containing 3.5 mg of 
bortezomib (as mannitol boronic ester) as active substance.  
The other ingredient is mannitol (E421). 
The product is available in a type I glass vial with grey chlorobutyl rubber stopper, aluminium seal, and 
red cap. 
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General Information 
The information on bortezomib is provided according to the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure. 
The chemical name of bortezomib is N-((1S)-1-benzyl-2-{[(1R)-1-(dihydroxyboranyl)-3-
methylbutyl]amino}-2-oxoethyl)pyrazine carboxamide, also known as [(1S)-3-methyl-1-[[(2R)-3-
phenyl-2-(pyrazine-2-carbonylamino) propanoyl]amino]butyl] boronic acid or {(1R)-3-methyl-1-[(2S)-
3-phenyl-2-(pyrazin-2-carboxamido)propanamido]butyl} boronic acid and has the following structure 
and properties: 
Formula: C19H25BN4O4           Molecular weight: 384.24 
The chemical structure of bortezomib was confirmed by 1H and 13C NMR, FTIR spectroscopy, mass 
spectrometry, elemental analysis, DSC, and optical rotation. 
The active substance is a white to off-white crystalline non-hygroscopic powder, very slightly soluble in 
water, and soluble in methanol, ethanol and DMSO. 
Bortezomib contains two chiral centres and enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by specific 
optical rotation. The active substance is isolated as a new polymorphic form of the boronic acid 
monomer with no boroxine trimer present. Bortezomib is fully dissolved and lyophilised with mannitol 
during finished product manufacture so polymorphic form is not important for finished product 
performance. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Bortezomib is produced by two manufacturers in eight convergent steps from four well defined starting 
materials with suitable specifications. One chiral centre originates in one of the starting materials 
whilst the other is introduced selectively during the process. Stereoisomeric impurities are controlled 
both by testing the relevant starting material and intermediate, and in the active substance 
specification. Polymorphic form is adequately controlled by the final crystallisation step. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline 
on chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with 
regards to their origin and characterised.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
Page 8/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility, identity (FT-IR, HPLC), 
polymorphic form (XRPD), appearance of solution, pH (aqueous suspension), specific optical rotation 
(Ph. Eur.), chiral purity (chiral HPLC), water content (KF), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residual 
solvents (GC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), heavy metals (Ph. Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.) and 
microbial examination (Ph. Eur. skip testing). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. 
Analysis data on three production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on three commercial scale and three pilot scale batches of active substance from the 
proposed manufacturers stored in the container closure system intended for the market for up to 36 
months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Photostability testing 
following the ICH guideline Q1B was performed on one batch. Forced degradation studies were 
undertaken on one batch at high temperature, and humidity in the solid state and at high temperature 
(60-105 oC), acidic and basic pH, and under oxidative conditions (H2O2). 
The following parameters were tested: solid state and solution appearance, identification, aqueous pH, 
water content, specific optical rotation, impurities, assay, chiral purity, and bacterial endotoxins. The 
analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
No significant changes to any of the measured parameters were observed under long term or 
accelerated conditions. Significant degradation was observed in the photostability study, at the highest 
temperature, and on treatment with strong base, acid, or peroxide. 
The stability results indicate that the drug substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The aim was to develop a generic, stable formulation of bortezomib equivalent to Velcade, and with 
similar physico-chemical attributes. Thus, a lyophilised formulation was developed containing the same 
qualitative and quantitative composition both in terms of active substance and excipients.  
Mannitol is a well-known pharmaceutical ingredient and its quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. 
There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included 
in section 6.1 of the SmPC. The active substance forms a boronic ester with mannitol during 
formulation akin to the originator product. On reconstitution, an equilibrium between mannitol ester 
and free boronic acid is observed. 
Page 9/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The finished product is a sterile lyophilised powder and aseptic processing was chosen to ensure 
sterility. Process development focused on key steps including dissolution of the active substance, 
sterile filtration and freeze drying. Stability of the bulk solution and compatibility with process 
components (vessels, atmosphere, filter) was investigated. The primary packaging is equivalent to that 
of Velcade and its integrity was demonstrated. The process was demonstrated to ensure sterility of the 
finished product. Due to the photosensitivity of bortezomib, the entire process from dissolution to 
packing is carried out with the exclusion of light. 
The properties of the finished product after re-constitution were also investigated to ensure 
performance equivalent to the reference product. Solubility, photostability, pH and osmolarity of the 
product reconstituted in 0.9% aqueous NaCl, both in vials and syringes, were all deemed to be 
comparable to Velcade. 
The primary packaging is a type I glass vial with grey chlorobutyl rubber stopper, aluminium seal, and 
red cap. The materials comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure 
system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of five main steps: dissolution of bortezomib and excipients in 
water for injections; sterile filtration; filling into vials; lyophilisation; sealing of the vials. Sealed vials 
are then decontaminated by washing externally with water before placing into the commercial 
packaging. The process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by three consecutive commercial scale 
batches of finished product. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of 
producing the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls 
are adequate for this type of manufacturing process. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for this  kind  of  dosage  form  and 
comprise  tests  for  appearance,  identification  (HPLC,  UV),  colour,  pH,  clarity  and  sub-visible  particle 
content  of  reconstituted  solution  (all  Ph.  Eur.),  bacterial  endotoxins  (Ph.  Eur.),  sterility  (Ph.  Eur.), 
uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph.  Eur.),  residual  t-butyl  alcohol  (GC),  impurities  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC), 
water content (KF) and reconstitution time. 
Analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of three commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 36 months under 
long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 
75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of finished product are identical 
to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing. 
Samples were analysed using the same tests as for release. The analytical procedures used are 
stability indicating. No significant changes to any of the measured parameters were observed.  
In addition, batches were exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of 
New Drug Substances and Products. The finished product is highly sensitive to even room light and 
should be kept away from light in its carton until use. 
Page 10/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-use stability studies were carried out using finished product reconstituted at room temperature (20-
25 ºC) with 0.9% aqueous NaCl to 2.5 mg/ml and 1.0 mg/ml concentrations to represent those 
required for either subcutaneous or intravenous administration. Solutions were held in the vials or in 
syringes. Solutions were analysed for bortezomib content, related substances, colour and achromicity, 
particulate matter and pH. Results indicate that the more concentrated solution is stable for up to 8 
hours in the vial and syringe, whilst the more dilute solution is stable under the same conditions for up 
to 3 days. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 3 years without special storage conditions is 
acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Bortezomib Accord manufactured by  Accord Healthcare Limited  is considered unlikely 
Page 11/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all bortezomib containing 
products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to 
be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology data.The impurity profile of Bortezomib Accord is comparable to that 
of the reference product VELCADE. Thus, additional toxicology studies to qualify the impurity profile of 
the drug product are not required. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In general, there are no objections to approval of Bortezomib Accord from a non-clinical point of view. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for powder for solution for injection containing bortezomib.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of bortezomib based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
As this is an abridged license application claiming essential similarity to a currently marketed product, 
no clinical studies have been undertaken to support the application. 
Regarding the waiver of bioequivalence studies and/or clinical studies it is important to highlight that 
Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection is available for intravenous or 
subcutaneous administration. This corresponds to the mode of administration of the original product 
(VELCADE 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection). 
According to the Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98/Rev 1), 
bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product. 
In the case of other parenteral routes, e.g. intramuscular or subcutaneous, and when the test product 
is of the same type of solution, contains the same concentration of the same active substance and the 
same excipients in similar amounts as the medicinal product currently approved, bioequivalence 
studies are not required as well. 
The applicant’s product Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection has the same 
active substance in the same concentration and the same excipients in similar amounts as the 
reference medicinal product. Furthermore Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection 
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has the same indications, pharmaceutical form, route of administration (the lyophilised powder enables 
intravenous or subcutaneous administration after reconstitution), and the same strength as VELCADE 
3.5 mg powder for solution for injection. 
According to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98/Rev1) a 
biowaiver for bioequivalence and clinical studies seems therefore eligible. 
Clinical studies 
No new clinical studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The product under review is essentially similar to the originator product VELCADE and, as outlined in 
Section 2.4.1 (Exemption), bioequivalence studies are not required. Therefore, the generic and the 
originator products can be regarded as therapeutic equivalents and it is fully justified to transfer the 
information on clinical efficacy and safety from the reference product VELCADE to the bortezomib 
formulation under review. 
The MCL indication was introduced during the assessment the procedure, in order to align the PI with 
the extended indication of Velcade. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Bortezomib Accord from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Page 13/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment 
report. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and CHMP. The CHMP 
endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 5 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Heart failure 
Hepatotoxicity 
Acute hypersensitivity reaction 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Peripheral motor neuropathy (including paralysis) 
Autonomic neuropathy 
Acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary disease 
Pericardial disease 
Pulmonary hypertension 
Herpes zoster infection 
Posterior reversible encephalophathy syndrome 
Optic neuropathy and different degrees of visual impairment 
(up to blindness) 
Thrombocytopenia and thrombocytopenia with associated 
bleeding 
Neutropenia and neutropenia with associated infection 
Important potential risks 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Ventricular rhythm abnormalities 
Guillain-Barré syndrome 
Other central nervous system disorders 
Medication/dispensing errors 
Missing information 
Safety in patients with cardiac impairment or with NYHA Class 
III or IV impairment 
Page 14/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in patients with ECOG>2 
Second primary malignancies with VcTD induction therapy 
Summary of safety concerns 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Not applicable. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional  risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Heart failure 
Sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3 of 
None proposed 
Bortezomib Accord SmPC cover 
information on this safety concern. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of 
None proposed 
Bortezomib Accord SmPC cover 
information on this safety concern. 
Acute hypersensitivity 
Sections 4.3 and 4.8 of Bortezomib 
None proposed 
reaction 
Accord SmPC cover information on this 
safety concern. 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of Bortezomib 
None proposed. 
Accord SmPC cover information on this 
safety concern. 
Peripheral motor 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of 
None proposed. 
neuropathy (including 
Bortezomib Accord SmPC cover 
paralysis) 
information on this safety concern. 
Autonomic neuropathy 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of 
None proposed. 
Bortezomib Accord SmPC cover 
information on this safety concern. 
Acute diffuse infiltrative 
Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of 
None proposed. 
pulmonary disease 
Bortezomib Accord SmPC cover 
information on this safety concern. 
Pericardial disease 
Sections 4.3 and 4.8 of Bortezomib 
None proposed. 
Accord SmPC cover information on this 
safety concern. 
Pulmonary 
hypertension 
Section 4.8 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
SmPC covers information on this 
safety concern. 
Herpes zoster infection 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of Bortezomib 
None proposed. 
Accord SmPC cover information on this 
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional  risk minimisation 
measures 
safety concern. 
measures 
Posterior reversible 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of Bortezomib 
None proposed. 
encephalopathy 
Accord SmPC cover information on this 
syndrome 
safety concern. 
Optic neuropathy and 
Section 4.8 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
different degrees of 
SmPC covers information on this 
visual impairment (up 
safety concern. 
to blindness) 
Thrombocytopenia and 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 4.9 cover 
None proposed. 
thrombocytopenia with 
information on this safety concern. 
associated bleeding 
Neutropenia and 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 cover 
None proposed. 
neutropenia with 
information on this safety concern. 
associated infection 
Progressive multifocal 
Section 4.4 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
leukocencephalopathy  
SmPC covers information on this 
safety concern. 
Ventricular rhythm 
Section 4.8 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
abnormalities 
SmPC covers information on this 
safety concern. 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome 
None risk minimisation activities are 
None proposed. 
proposed at this time. 
Other central nervous 
Section 4.8 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
system disorders 
SmPC covers information on this 
safety concern. 
Medication/dispensing 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 6.6 cover 
In order to prevent medication 
errors 
information on this safety concern. 
errors, IV administered SC or vise a 
versa as well as drug administration 
and dosing errors, MAH will provide 
educational materials (reconstitution, 
dosing and administration booklet, 
reconstitution poster and a dosing 
slide rule) to HCPs, MAH will also 
provide training to medical 
representatives, medical and 
scientific liaisons (MSLs) and medical 
information personnel for 
medication/dispensing errors.  
In order to prevent confusion with 
administering the incorrect regimens 
Page 16/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional  risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
in the transplant induction setting, 
MAH will provide proper training to 
all MSLs on the different bortezomib 
treatment schedules approved for 
transplant induction. MSLs will be 
able to offer on-site training and 
relevant recommendations. An 
educational programme and specific 
tools for HCPs will be developed who 
are involved in the prescription and 
administration of bortezomib 
combination regimens in the 
transplant induction. 
Safety in patients with 
Section 4.4 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
cardiac impairment or 
SmPC covers information on this 
with NYHA Class III or 
safety concern. 
IV impairment 
Safety in patients with 
None risk minimisation activities are 
None proposed. 
ECOG>2 
proposed at this time. 
Second primary 
Section 4.4 of Bortezomib Accord 
None proposed. 
malignancies with VcTD 
SmPC covers information on this 
induction therapy 
safety concern. 
2.7.  PSUR submission 
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports 
is not required for this medicinal product. However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83 and published on 
the European medicines web-portal. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable  for the following reasons: 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Velcade. The bridging report submitted by the applicant 
has been found acceptable. 
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of Bortezomib powder for solution for injection. The 
reference product Velcade has the following indications: 
Velcade as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have received at 
least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated for 
the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible 
for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
The MCL indication was introduced during the assessment, in order to align the PI with the extended 
indication of Velcade. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the benefit-risk balance of Bortezomib Accord in the following indication 
Bortezomib as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone 
is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have received 
at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy 
with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated 
for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are 
Page 18/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated 
for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable 
for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports is 
not required for this medicinal product. However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83 and published on 
the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures   
In each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree the content and format 
of the educational material with the national competent authority. 
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that all healthcare professionals involved in the prescribing, dispensing, handling 
or administration of Bortezomib Accord are provided with educational materials. 
The educational material shall consist of the following: 
•  SmPC 
•  Reconstitution, dosing and administration booklet 
•  Reconstitution poster 
•  Dosing Slide Rule 
• 
Induction Transplant Regimens Graph 
The Reconstitution, dosing and administration booklet shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg can be administered both intravenously and subcutaneously  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
different reconstitution requirements for intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous (SC) use 
dosing instructions and examples: how to calculate the body surface area of a patient and the 
volume of reconstituted Bortezomib Accord (both IV and SC use) required for different body 
surface areas (cross reference to Dosing Slide Rule) 
advice on method of administration for both IV and SC use, including the need to rotate 
injection sites for SC use 
storage precautions for reconstituted solution 
potential risks of administration errors including overdosing, underdosing and that inadvertent 
intrathecal administration has resulted in death 
to report any adverse event, or medication error experienced with the administration of 
Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg. 
The Reconstitution poster shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
different reconstitution requirements for Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg IV or SC use 
need to handling the medicinal product in sterile setting 
storage precautions for reconstituted solution 
advice on how to reduce the risk of mix-up of IV and SC reconstituted syringes 
that Bortezomib Accord is to be given only by IV or SC injections; no other route of 
administration is  allowed 
to report any adverse event, or medication error experienced with the administration of 
Bortezomib Accord 3.5 mg. 
Dosing Slide Rule shall contain the following key elements: 
•  a dose-calculation tool that enables prescribers to input a patient’s height and weight in order 
to calculate the body surface area (BSA) and thereby to determine the appropriate Bortezomib 
Accord dose. 
•  different reconstitution requirements for intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous (SC) use 
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  dosing instructions and examples: how to calculate the body surface area of a patient and the 
volume of reconstituted Bortezomib Accord (both IV and SC use) required for different body 
surface areas. 
Induction Transplant Regimens Graph shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
instructions for prescribing and administration including the cycles’ length and number of 
cycles, to minimise the risk of medication and dispensing errors potentially induced by the 
existence of the two different bortezomib combination regimens in the Transplant Induction 
Setting (Bortezomib Accord plus dexamethasone, and Bortezomib Accord plus dexamethasone 
and thalidomide). 
to remind that patients receiving Bortezomib Accord in combination with thalidomide should 
adhere to the pregnancy prevention programme of thalidomide, with reference to the SmPC of 
thalidomide for additional information. 
Page 21/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
