EMA/318082/2022 
EMEA/H/C/002373 
Bosulif (bosutinib) 
An overview of Bosulif and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Bosulif and what is it used for? 
Bosulif is a cancer medicine that is used to treat chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a cancer of the 
white blood cells, in adults with a special chromosome in their cells called the Philadelphia 
chromosome.  
It is used to treat three stages of CML called ‘chronic phase’, ‘accelerated phase’ and ‘blast phase’ in 
patients who have already been treated with one or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors (medicines for CML 
which work in a similar way to Bosulif), and when the tyrosine kinase inhibitors called dasatinib, 
imatinib and nilotinib are not suitable.  
Bosulif is also used to treat newly diagnosed patients who are in the ‘chronic phase’ of CML. 
Bosulif contains the active substance bosutinib. 
How is Bosulif used? 
Bosulif is available as tablets . It can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be 
started by a doctor who is experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of CML. The recommended dose 
is 400 mg once a day for newly diagnosed patients, and 500 mg once a day for patients who have 
already been treated with other medicines. The doctor may increase the dose up to 600 mg once a day 
or reduce it or interrupt treatment according to how the medicine is working and the side effects the 
patient has.  
For more information about using Bosulif, see the package leaflet or contact a doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Bosulif work? 
The active substance in Bosulif, bosutinib, is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). It blocks the action of 
enzymes known as Src and Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinases found on leukaemia cells where they are involved 
in stimulating the cells to divide uncontrollably. By blocking their action, Bosulif helps to control cell 
division, thereby controlling the growth and spread of the leukaemia cells in CML. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Bosulif have been shown in studies? 
Studies have shown that Bosulif is effective at reducing the proportion of white blood cells with the 
Philadelphia chromosome. Bosulif was investigated in one main study involving 570 patients with 
‘Philadelphia chromosome positive’ (Ph+) CML who had previously been treated with at least one 
tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Bosulif was not compared with another treatment. Of these, 52 patients were 
considered to have an unmet medical need, because disease resistance or the risk of severe side 
effects made other tyrosine kinase inhibitors unsuitable. Among these patients, 36 had chronic phase 
CML and 16 had either accelerated or blast phase CML.  
The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who had at least a ‘major cytogenetic 
response’ (where the proportion of white blood cells with the Philadelphia chromosome fell below 35%) 
after six months of Bosulif treatment. Effectiveness was also measured in other ways including 
‘haematological response’ (a return to normal of the number of white cells in the blood). Bosulif 
treatment was effective in patients with an unmet medical need: 18 out of 36 patients with chronic 
phase CML had a ‘major cytogenetic response’, while 7 out of the 16 patients with advanced 
(accelerated or blast phase) CML also had a sufficient response based on other measurements. 
Results from an extension of this study, during which patients who benefited from Bosulif were 
followed up for at least 10 years, confirmed that the effect of the medicine was maintained long-term.  
An additional study involved 163 patients with chronic or advanced Ph+ CML for whom previous 
treatment with at least one tyrosine kinase inhibitor did not work, or who could not take these 
medicines. The study showed that among the 156 patients with chronic Ph+ CML treated with at least 
one TKI, 72% had a major cytogenetic response. Among the 7 patients with advanced CML, 75% had 
an haematological response after one year of treatment. 
A third study in 536 newly diagnosed CML patients in the ‘chronic phase’ compared Bosulif with 
imatinib. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who had a ‘major molecular 
response’ (where the amount in the bone marrow of BCR-ABL, the protein produced by the 
Philadelphia chromosome, is greatly lowered). After one year of treatment, 47% (116 out of 246) of 
patients treated with Bosulif had a major molecular response, compared with 37% (89 out of 241) of 
patients treated with imatinib. 
What are the risks associated with Bosulif? 
The most common side effects with Bosulif (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are diarrhoea, 
nausea (feeling sick), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts), abdominal pain (belly ache), 
vomiting, rash, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), tiredness, fever, increased levels of liver enzymes 
and headache. The most serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 20 people) include 
thrombocytopenia, anaemia, diarrhoea, rash, neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white 
blood cell) and blood tests suggesting damage to the liver and pancreas. For the full list of side effects 
of Bosulif, see the package leaflet. 
Bosulif must not be used in patients with reduced liver function. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Bosulif authorised in the EU? 
Bosulif has been shown to improve the condition of patients with CML, including by reducing the 
number of cancer cells with the Philadelphia chromosome and returning white blood cell levels to 
normal. The side effects of the medicine are considered to be manageable. 
Bosulif (bosutinib)  
EMA/318082/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that the benefits of Bosulif are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Bosulif was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come about 
the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the authorisation has 
been switched from conditional to full authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bosulif? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bosulif have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bosulif are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Bosulif are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Bosulif 
Bosulif received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 March 2013. This 
was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 7 April 2022.  
Further information on Bosulif can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/bosulif.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
Bosulif (bosutinib)  
EMA/318082/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
