EMA/283296/2017 
EMEA/H/C/002706 
EPAR summary for the public 
Bretaris Genuair 
aclidinium bromide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Bretaris Genuair. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Bretaris Genuair. 
For practical information about using Bretaris Genuair, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Bretaris Genuair and what is it used for? 
Bretaris Genuair is a medicine that is used to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the 
lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Bretaris Genuair is used for 
maintenance (regular) treatment. 
Bretaris Genuair contains the active substance aclidinium bromide.  
How is Bretaris Genuair used? 
Bretaris Genuair is available as an inhalation powder in a portable inhaler device. Each inhalation 
provides 375 micrograms of aclidinium bromide equivalent to 322 micrograms of aclidinium. 
The recommended dose of Bretaris Genuair is one inhalation twice a day. For detailed information on 
using the inhaler correctly, see the instructions in the package leaflet. 
Bretaris Genuair can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Bretaris Genuair work? 
The active substance in Bretaris Genuair, aclidinium bromide, is an antimuscarinic bronchodilator. This 
means that it widens the airways by blocking muscarinic receptors. Muscarinic receptors control the 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
contraction of muscles and when aclidinium bromide is inhaled, it relaxes the muscles of the airways. 
This helps to keep the airways open and allows the patient to breathe more easily. 
What benefits of Bretaris Genuair have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 828 patients with COPD found that Bretaris Genuair was more effective than 
placebo (a dummy treatment) at improving how well the lungs work. The study compared two doses of 
Bretaris Genuair (200 and 400 micrograms) inhaled twice a day with placebo. The main measure of 
effectiveness was how Bretaris Genuair improved patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the 
maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second). On average, after six months of 
treatment, the FEV1 in patients who used 200 and 400 micrograms Bretaris Genuair increased 
compared with placebo by 99 ml and 128 ml respectively. The dose of 400 micrograms Bretaris 
Genuair corresponds to an inhalation providing 322 micrograms of aclidinium. 
What are the risks associated with Bretaris Genuair? 
The most common side effects with Bretaris Genuair (which may affect more than 5 patients in 100) 
are headache and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). Other common side effects 
(which may affect more than 1 patient in 100) are sinusitis (inflammation of the sinuses), cough, 
nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Bretaris 
Genuair, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Bretaris Genuair approved? 
The CHMP noted that Bretaris Genuair was shown to be effective at improving the symptoms of COPD, 
and its beneficial effects are maintained for up to a year. The CHMP also noted that there were no 
major safety concerns with Bretaris Genuair, with side effects being reversible and similar to other 
antimuscarinic bronchodilator medicines. Therefore, the CHMP decided that Bretaris Genuair’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Bretaris Genuair? 
As antimuscarinic bronchodilator medicines may have an effect on the heart and blood vessels, the 
company will closely monitor the medicine’s cardiovascular effects and will carry out a further study in 
patients to identify any potential risks. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Bretaris Genuair have also been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Bretaris Genuair 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Bretaris Genuair on 20 July 2012.  
The full EPAR for Bretaris Genuair can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Bretaris Genuair, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
Bretaris Genuair  
EMA/283296/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 05-2017.  
Bretaris Genuair  
EMA/283296/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
