EMA/164279/2023 
EMEA/H/C/004731 
Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel) 
An overview of Breyanzi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Breyanzi and what is it used for? 
Breyanzi is a medicine used to treat adults with different types of cancer of white blood cells:  
• 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL);  
•  high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBCL);  
• 
• 
primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL);  
follicular lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B). 
Breyanzi can be used in patients whose cancer came back (relapsed) or did not respond (refractory) 
after an initial treatment with chemoimmunotherapy (a combination of systemic therapy to kill or slow 
the growth of cancer cells and immunotherapy to stimulate or restore the immune system’s ability to 
fight the cancer).  
In patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, PMBCL or FL3B, it can also be used after two or more 
previous treatments with systemic therapy (treatment given by mouth or injection).  
Breyanzi is a type of advanced therapy medicine called a ‘gene therapy product’. This is a type of 
medicine that works by delivering genes into the body.  
Breyanzi contains lisocabtagene maraleucel, which is a combination of two types of genetically 
modified white blood cells. 
How is Breyanzi used? 
Breyanzi is prepared using the patient’s own white blood cells. These are extracted from blood, 
genetically modified in a laboratory, and then administered back to the patient.  
The medicine is given as a single infusion (drip) into a vein and must only be given to the patient 
whose own cells were used to make it. Before treatment with Breyanzi, the patient should have a short 
course of systemic therapy to clear away their existing white blood cells, and just before the infusion 
they should be given other medicines to reduce the risk of reactions to the infusion.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
A medicine called tocilizumab (or a suitable alternative if this is unavailable due to a shortage) and 
emergency equipment must be available in case the patient has a potentially serious side effect called 
cytokine release syndrome (see risks section below).  
Patients should be closely monitored for side effects for one week after treatment and are advised to 
stay close to a specialist hospital for at least 4 weeks after treatment.  
For more information about using Breyanzi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Breyanzi work? 
Breyanzi contains lisocabtagene maraleucel, which is a combination of two types of the patient’s white 
blood cells (CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells). These T cells have been genetically modified in the 
laboratory to make a protein called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). CAR can attach to CD19, a 
protein that is found on the surface of cancer cells.  
When Breyanzi is given to the patient, the modified T cells attach to CD19 proteins on the cancer cells 
and kill them, thereby helping to clear the cancer from the body. 
What benefits of Breyanzi have been shown in studies? 
Benefits of Breyanzi were shown in two main studies conducted in more than 300 adult patients with 
DLBCL that was not responding to previous treatment or had returned after at least two previous 
courses of therapy or after a stem cell transplant. These studies showed that 53% and 33% of patients 
treated with Breyanzi had a complete response (meaning that they had no signs of cancer after 
treatment) and 73% and 61% had at least a partial response. Comparable responses were seen in an 
analysis in a smaller number of patients with PMBCL and FL3B who participated in these studies. These 
results were at least as good as the results seen in other studies involving patients receiving standard 
cancer treatments.  
Another main study involved 184 patients with large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL, HGBCL, PMBCL and 
FL3B) that had returned shortly after, or did not respond to, first-line immunochemotherapy. Patients 
were given Breyanzi or standard treatment, and the study looked at the time until patients 
experienced certain outcomes (an ‘event’, meaning their treatment did not work after 9 weeks, they 
started a different treatment because the treating doctor considered the current medicine ineffective, 
their cancer worsened or they died).  
The study showed that patients given Breyanzi lived longer without experiencing an event: 10.1 
months, on average, for patients given Breyanzi compared with 2.3 months for patients given standard 
treatment. In addition, after 6 months, 66% of patients given Breyanzi had had a complete response 
(meaning no sign of cancer after treatment) compared with 39% of those who received standard 
treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Breyanzi? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Breyanzi, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with Breyanzi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
neutropenia (decreases in neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that fights infections), anaemia 
(decreases in red blood cells) or thrombocytopenia (decreases in blood platelets, components that help 
the blood to clot), as well as cytokine release syndrome (a potentially life-threatening condition that 
can cause fever, vomiting, shortness of breath, pain and low blood pressure). In patients who had 
Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel)  
EMA/164279/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
received two or more previous treatments with systemic therapy, more than 1 in 10 people also 
experienced tiredness.  
A very common serious side effect with Breyanzi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
cytokine release syndrome.  
In patients who previously received a single course of treatment, common serious side effects (which 
may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include neutropenia, anaemia and thrombocytopenia, neutropenia 
with fever, fever, infections, aphasia (problems with the use of language), headache, confusion, 
pulmonary embolism (a blood clot in a blood vessel in the lungs), upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
and shaking.  
In patients who had received two or more previous treatments with systemic therapy, common serious 
side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include low levels of neutrophils, red blood cells or 
platelets, low levels of neutrophils with fever, fever, infections, encephalopathy (a brain disorder 
caused by infection), aphasia, confusion, shaking or low blood pressure. 
Why is Breyanzi authorised in the EU? 
Breyanzi was shown to be at least as effective as existing treatment options in patients with DLBCL, 
PMBCL and FL3B who had received at least two previous treatments. Breyanzi also showed benefits in 
patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphomas whose cancer had returned shortly after or 
who did not respond to one previous treatment. Serious side effects, particularly cytokine release 
syndrome, can occur. However, these are manageable if appropriate measures are in place (see 
below). The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that the benefits of Breyanzi are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Breyanzi? 
The company that markets Breyanzi must ensure that hospitals where Breyanzi is given have 
appropriate expertise, facilities and training. Tocilizumab, or suitable alternatives in case of its 
unavailability due to shortage, must be available for the management of cytokine release syndrome. 
The company must provide educational materials for healthcare professionals and patients about 
possible side effects, especially cytokine release syndrome.  
The company must provide additional data from ongoing and future studies to further characterize the 
long-term safety and effectiveness of Breyanzi.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Breyanzi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Breyanzi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Breyanzi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Breyanzi 
Breyanzi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 4 April 2022.  
Further information on Breyanzi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/breyanzi  
This overview was last updated in 04-2023.  
Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel)  
EMA/164279/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
