ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
2.1  General description 
Breyanzi (lisocabtagene maraleucel) is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous cell-based 
product consisting of purified CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, in a defined composition, that have been 
separately transduced ex vivo using a replication incompetent lentiviral vector expressing an anti-
CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) comprising a single chain variable fragment (scFv) binding 
domain derived from a murine CD19-specific monoclonal antibody (mAb; FMC63) and a portion of 
the 4-1BB co-stimulatory endodomain and CD3 zeta (ζ) chain signalling domains and a nonfunctional 
truncated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFRt). 
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition  
Breyanzi contains CAR-positive viable T cells, consisting of a defined composition of CD8+ and 
CD4+ cell components: 
CD8+ cell component 
Each vial contains lisocabtagene maraleucel at a batch-specific concentration of autologous T cells 
genetically modified to express anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-positive viable T cells). 
The medicinal product is packaged in one or more vials containing a cell dispersion of 5.1-322 × 106 
CAR-positive viable T cells (1.1-70 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells/mL) suspended in a 
cryopreservative solution. 
Each vial contains 4.6 mL of CD8+ cell component. 
CD4+ cell component 
Each vial contains lisocabtagene maraleucel at a batch-specific concentration of autologous T cells 
genetically modified to express anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-positive viable T cells). 
The medicinal product is packaged in one or more vials containing a cell dispersion of 5.1-322 × 106 
CAR-positive viable T cells (1.1-70 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells/mL) suspended in a 
cryopreservative solution.  
Each vial contains 4.6 mL of CD4+ cell component. 
More than one vial of each of the CD8+ cell component and/or CD4+ cell component may be needed 
to achieve the dose of Breyanzi. The total volume to be dosed and the number of vials required may 
differ for each cell component. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The quantitative information for each cell component of the medicinal product, including the number 
of vials (see section 6) to be administered, is presented in the release for infusion certificate (RfIC) 
located inside the lid of the cryoshipper used for transport. The RfIC for each component includes the 
total volume to be dosed, the number of vials required and the volume to be dosed from each vial, 
based on the cryopreserved CAR-positive viable T cell concentration. 
Excipients with known effect   
This medicinal product contains 12.5 mg sodium, 6.5 mg potassium, and 0.35 mL (7.5% v/v) dimethyl 
sulfoxide per vial (see section 4.4).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersion for infusion (infusion). 
Slightly opaque to opaque, colourless to yellow, or brownish-yellow dispersion. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Breyanzi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 
high grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBCL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and 
follicular lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B), who relapsed within 12 months from completion of, or are 
refractory to, first-line chemoimmunotherapy. 
Breyanzi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, PMBCL 
and FL3B, after two or more lines of systemic therapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Breyanzi must be administered in a qualified treatment centre. 
Treatment should be initiated under the direction of and supervised by a healthcare professional 
experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies and trained for administration and 
management of patients treated with Breyanzi. 
At least 1 dose of tocilizumab for use in the event of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and emergency 
equipment must be available per patient prior to infusion of Breyanzi. The treatment centre must have 
access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional 
case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines 
Agency shortage catalogue, suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab must be 
available prior to infusion. 
Posology 
Breyanzi is intended for autologous use (see section 4.4). 
Treatment consists of a single dose for infusion containing a dispersion for infusion of CAR-positive 
viable T cells in one or more vials.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The target dose is 100 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells (consisting of a target 1:1 ratio of CD4+ and 
CD8+ cell components) within a range of 44-120 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells. See the 
accompanying release for infusion certificate (RfIC) for additional information pertaining to dose. 
The availability of Breyanzi must be confirmed before starting lymphodepleting chemotherapy 
regimen. 
Patients should be clinically re-assessed prior to administration of lymphodepleting chemotherapy and 
Breyanzi to ensure no reasons to delay therapy (see section 4.4). 
Pre-treatment (lymphodepleting chemotherapy) 
Lymphodepleting chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2/day and fludarabine 
30 mg/m2/day, administered intravenously for three days. See the prescribing information for 
fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for information on dose adjustment in renal impairment.  
Breyanzi is to be administered 2 to 7 days after completion of lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
If there is a delay of more than 2 weeks between completing lymphodepleting chemotherapy and the 
infusion of Breyanzi, then the patient should be re-treated with lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior 
to receiving the infusion (see section 4.4). 
Pre-medication 
It is recommended that premedication with paracetamol and diphenhydramine (25-50 mg, 
intravenously or orally) or another H1-antihistamine, be administered 30 to 60 minutes before the 
infusion of Breyanzi to reduce the possibility of an infusion reaction. 
Prophylactic use of systemic corticosteroids should be avoided, as the use may interfere with the 
activity of Breyanzi (see section 4.4). 
Monitoring after infusion 
• 
Patients should be monitored 2-3 times during the first week following infusion, for signs and 
symptoms of potential CRS, neurologic events and other toxicities. Physicians should consider 
hospitalisation at the first signs or symptoms of CRS and/or neurologic events.   
• 
• 
Frequency of monitoring after the first week should be carried out at the physician’s discretion 
and should be continued for a least 4 weeks after infusion.  
Patients should be instructed to remain within proximity of a qualified treatment centre for at 
least 4 weeks following infusion. 
Special populations  
Patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection 
There is no clinical experience in patients with active HIV, HBV or HCV infection. 
Screening for HIV, active HBV and active HCV must be performed before collection of cells for 
manufacturing. Leukapheresis material from patients with active HIV or active HCV infection will not 
be accepted for manufacturing (see section 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
There is no clinical experience in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
≤ 30 mL/min). 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in patients over 65 years of age.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Breyanzi in children and adolescents below 18 years of age have not yet 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Breyanzi is for intravenous use only. 
Preparation of Breyanzi 
Before thawing the vials, it must be confirmed that the patient’s identity matches the unique patient 
identifiers on the shipper, external carton and the release for infusion certificate (RfIC). The total 
number of vials to be administered must also be confirmed with the patient-specific label information 
on the release for infusion certificate (RfIC) (see section 4.4). The company must be contacted 
immediately if there are any discrepancies between the labels and the patient identifiers. 
Administration 
• 
• 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Ensure tocilizumab or suitable alternatives, in the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not 
available due to a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, 
and emergency equipment are available prior to infusion and during the recovery period. 
Confirm the patient’s identity matches the patient identifiers on the syringe label supplied on the 
respective release for infusion certificate (RfIC). 
Once Breyanzi components have been drawn into syringes, proceed with administration as soon 
as possible. The total time from removal from frozen storage to patient administration should 
not exceed 2 hours. 
• 
• 
For detailed instructions on preparation, administration, measures to take in case of accidental 
exposure and disposal of Breyanzi, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Contraindications of the lymphodepleting chemotherapy must be considered. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use   
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell-based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient must 
be kept for a period of 30 years after expiry date of the product. 
Autologous use 
Breyanzi is intended solely for autologous use and must not under any circumstances be administered 
to other patients. Breyanzi must not be administered if the information on the product labels and 
release for infusion certificate (RfIC) do not match the patient’s identity. 
Reasons to delay treatment 
Due to the risks associated with Breyanzi treatment, infusion should be delayed if a patient has any of 
the following conditions:  
• 
Unresolved serious adverse events (especially pulmonary events, cardiac events, or 
hypotension), including those after preceding chemotherapies. 
Active uncontrolled infections, or inflammatory disorders. 
• 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Active graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). 
In case of delayed Breyanzi infusion, see section 4.2. 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Breyanzi must not donate blood, organs, tissues and cells for transplantation. 
Central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma 
There is no experience of use of Breyanzi in patients with primary CNS lymphoma. There is limited 
clinical experience of use of Breyanzi for secondary CNS lymphoma (see section 5.1). 
Prior treatment with an anti-CD19 therapy 
There is limited clinical experience with Breyanzi in patients exposed to prior CD19-directed therapy 
(see section 5.1). There are limited clinical data available on CD19-negative patients treated with 
Breyanzi. Patients with CD19-negative status by immunohistochemistry may still express CD19. The 
potential risks and benefits associated with treatment of CD19-negative patients with Breyanzi should 
be considered. 
Cytokine release syndrome 
CRS including fatal or life-threatening reactions can occur following Breyanzi infusion. For patients 
who received one prior line of therapy for large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL), the median time to onset 
was 4 days (range: 1 to 63 days, with the upper limit due to CRS onset, without fever, reported in one 
patient). For patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, the median time to 
onset was 4 days (range: 1 to 14 days). Less than half of all patients treated with Breyanzi experienced 
some degree of CRS (see section 4.8). 
In clinical studies high tumour burden prior to Breyanzi infusion was associated with a higher 
incidence of CRS.  
Tocilizumab and/or a corticosteroid were used to manage CRS after infusion of Breyanzi (see 
section 4.8).  
Monitoring and management of CRS 
CRS should be identified based on clinical presentation. Patients should be evaluated for and treated 
for other causes of fever, hypoxia, and hypotension.  
At least one dose of tocilizumab must be available per patient on site prior to infusion of Breyanzi. 
The treatment centre should have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 8 hours of each 
previous dose. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage that is 
listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, the treatment centre must have access to 
suitable alternative measures instead of tocilizumab to treat CRS. Patients should be monitored 2-3 
times during the first week following Breyanzi infusion at the qualified treatment centre for signs and 
symptoms of CRS. Frequency of monitoring after the first week should be carried out at the 
physician’s discretion, and should be continued for at least 4 weeks after infusion. Patients should be 
counselled to seek immediate medical attention should signs or symptoms of CRS occur at any time, 
and treated promptly. 
At the first sign of CRS, treatment with supportive care, tocilizumab or tocilizumab and 
corticosteroids should be instituted as indicated in Table 1. Breyanzi continues to expand following 
administration of tocilizumab and corticosteroids (see section 5.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who experience CRS should be closely monitored for cardiac and organ functioning until 
resolution of symptoms. For severe or life-threatening CRS, intensive care unit level monitoring and 
supportive therapy should be considered.  
Evaluation for haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis/macrophage activation syndrome (HLH/MAS) 
should be considered in patients with severe or unresponsive CRS. Treatment of HLH/MAS should be 
administered per institutional guidelines. 
If concurrent neurologic toxicity is suspected during CRS, administer:  
•  Corticosteroids according to the more aggressive intervention based on the CRS and 
neurologic toxicity grades in Tables 1 and 2 
•  Tocilizumab according to the CRS grade in Table 1  
•  Anti-seizure medication according to the neurologic toxicity grade in Table 2. 
CRS grading and management guidance 
Table 1. 
CRS gradea 
Grade 1 
Fever 
Tocilizumab 
If 72 hours or more after 
infusion, treat 
symptomatically. 
If less than 72 hours after 
infusion, consider 
tocilizumab 8 mg/kg IV over 
1 hour (not to exceed 
800 mg). 
Administer tocilizumab 
8 mg/kg IV over 1 hour (not 
to exceed 800 mg). 
Corticosteroidsb 
If 72 hours or more after 
infusion, treat 
symptomatically. 
If less than 72 hours after 
infusion, consider 
dexamethasone 10 mg IV 
every 24 hours. 
If 72 hours or more after 
infusion, consider 
dexamethasone 10 mg IV 
every 12-24 hours. 
If less than 72 hours after 
infusion, administer 
dexamethasone 10 mg IV 
every 12-24 hours. 
If no improvement within 24 hours or rapid progression, 
repeat tocilizumab and escalate dose and frequency of 
dexamethasone (10-20 mg IV every 6 to 12 hours). 
If no improvement or continued rapid progression, maximise 
dexamethasone, switch to high-dose methylprednisolone 
2 mg/kg if needed. After 2 doses of tocilizumab, consider 
alternative immunosuppressants. Do not exceed 3 doses 
tocilizumab in 24 hours, or 4 doses in total. 
Per Grade 2. 
Administer dexamethasone 
10 mg IV every 12 hours. 
If no improvement within 24 hours or rapid progression of 
CRS, escalate tocilizumab and corticosteroid use as per 
Grade 2. 
7 
Grade 2 
Symptoms require and respond to 
moderate intervention. 
Fever, oxygen requirement less 
than 40% fraction of inspired 
oxygen (FiO2), or hypotension 
responsive to fluids or low dose of 
one vasopressor, or Grade 2 organ 
toxicity. 
Grade 3 
Symptoms require and respond to 
aggressive intervention. 
Fever, oxygen requirement greater 
than or equal to 40% FiO2, or 
hypotension requiring high-dose 
or multiple vasopressors, or 
Grade 3 organ toxicity, or Grade 4 
transaminitis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRS gradea 
Grade 4 
Life-threatening symptoms. 
Tocilizumab 
Per Grade 2. 
Corticosteroidsb 
Administer dexamethasone 
20 mg IV every 6 hours. 
Requirements for ventilator 
support or continuous 
veno-venous haemodialysis 
(CVVHD) or Grade 4 organ 
toxicity (excluding transaminitis). 
a  Lee et al 2014. 
b  If corticosteroids are initiated, continue for at least 3 doses or until complete resolution of symptoms, and 
If no improvement within 24 hours or rapid progression of 
CRS, escalate tocilizumab and corticosteroid use as per 
Grade 2. 
consider corticosteroid taper. 
Neurologic adverse reactions 
Neurologic toxicities, which may be severe or life-threatening, occurred following treatment with 
Breyanzi, including concurrently with CRS, after CRS resolution, or in the absence of CRS. For 
patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, the median time to onset of the first event 
was 8 days (range: 1 to 63 days) and for patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for 
LBCL, the median time to onset of the first event was 9 days (range: 1 to 66 days). The most common 
neurologic symptoms included encephalopathy, tremor, aphasia, delirium, dizziness and headache (see 
section 4.8). 
Monitoring and management of neurologic toxicities 
Patients should be monitored 2-3 times during the first week following infusion, at the qualified 
treatment centre, for signs and symptoms of neurologic toxicities. Frequency of monitoring after the 
first week should be carried out at the physician’s discretion, and should be continued for a least 
4 weeks after infusion. Patients should be counselled to seek immediate medical attention should signs 
and symptoms of neurologic toxicity occur at any time, and treated promptly. 
If neurologic toxicity is suspected, it is to be managed according to the recommendations in Table 2. 
Other causes of neurologic symptoms should be ruled out, including vascular events. Intensive care 
supportive therapy should be provided for severe or life-threatening neurologic toxicities. 
If concurrent CRS is suspected during the neurologic toxicity administer: 
•  Corticosteroids according to the more aggressive intervention based on the CRS and 
neurologic toxicity grades in Tables 1 and 2  
•  Tocilizumab according to the CRS grade in Table 1 
•  Antiseizure medication according to the neurologic toxicity grade in Table 2. 
Table 2. 
NT Gradea 
Grade 1  
Neurologic toxicity (NT) grading and management guidance  
Corticosteroids and anti-seizure medication 
Start non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure 
prophylaxis. 
If 72 hours or more after infusion, observe. 
If less than 72 hours after infusion, dexamethasone 10 mg IV every 12 to 
24 hours for 2-3 days. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NT Gradea 
Grade 2 
Corticosteroids and anti-seizure medication 
Start non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure 
prophylaxis. 
Dexamethasone 10 mg IV every 12 hours for 2-3 days, or longer for persistent 
symptoms. Consider taper for a total corticosteroid exposure of greater than 
3 days. 
If no improvement after 24 hours or worsening of neurologic toxicity, increase 
the dose and/or frequency of dexamethasone up to maximum of 20 mg IV every 
6 hours. 
Grade 3 
If no improvement after another 24 hours, rapidly progressing symptoms, or life-
threatening complications arise, give methylprednisolone (2 mg/kg loading dose, 
followed by 2 mg/kg divided 4 times a day; taper within 7 days). 
Start non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure 
prophylaxis. 
Dexamethasone 10 to 20 mg IV every 8 to 12 hours. Corticosteroids are not 
recommended for isolated Grade 3 headaches. 
If no improvement after 24 hours or worsening of neurologic toxicity, escalate to 
methylprednisolone (dose and frequency as per Grade 2). 
Grade 4 
If cerebral oedema is suspected, consider hyperventilation and hyperosmolar 
therapy. Give high-dose methylprednisolone (1-2 g, repeat every 24 hours if 
needed; taper as clinically indicated), and cyclophosphamide 1.5 g/m2. 
Start non-sedating, anti-seizure medicines (e.g., levetiracetam) for seizure 
prophylaxis. 
Dexamethasone 20 mg IV every 6 hours. 
If no improvement after 24 hours or worsening of neurologic toxicity, escalate to 
methylprednisolone (dose and frequency as per Grade 2). 
If cerebral oedema is suspected, consider hyperventilation and hyperosmolar 
therapy. Give high-dose methylprednisolone (1-2 g, repeat every 24 hours if 
needed; taper as clinically indicated), and cyclophosphamide 1.5 g/m2. 
a  NCI CTCAE v.4.03 criteria for grading neurologic toxicities. 
Infections and febrile neutropenia 
Breyanzi should not be administered to patients with a clinically significant active infection or 
inflammatory disorder. Severe infections including life-threatening or fatal infections, have occurred 
in patients after receiving this medicinal product (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for 
signs and symptoms of infection before and after administration and treated appropriately. 
Prophylactic anti-microbials should be administered according to standard institutional guidelines. 
Febrile neutropenia has been observed in patients after treatment with Breyanzi (see section 4.8) and 
may be concurrent with CRS. In the event of febrile neutropenia, infection should be evaluated and 
managed with broad-spectrum antibiotics, fluids and other supportive care as medically indicated. 
Patients treated with Breyanzi may be at an increased risk of severe/fatal COVID-19 infections. 
Patients should be counselled on the importance of prevention measures. 
Viral reactivation 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Viral reactivation, (e.g., HBV, human herpesvirus 6 [HHV-6]) may occur in immunosuppressed 
patients. 
Viral reactivation manifestations may complicate and delay the diagnosis and appropriate treatment of 
CAR T cell-related adverse events. Appropriate diagnostic evaluations should be performed to help 
differentiate these manifestations from CAR T cell-related adverse events. 
HBV reactivation, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure and death, can occur 
in patients treated with medicinal products directed against B cells. For patients with a prior history of 
HBV, prophylactic antiviral suppressive therapy is recommended to prevent HBV reactivation during 
and after Breyanzi therapy (see section 5.1). 
Serological testing 
Screening for HBV, HCV, and HIV should be performed before collection of cells for manufacturing. 
(see section 4.2).  
Prolonged cytopenias 
Patients may exhibit cytopenias for several weeks following lymphodepleting chemotherapy and 
Breyanzi (see section 4.8). Blood counts should be monitored prior to and after Breyanzi 
administration. Prolonged cytopenias should be managed according to clinical guidelines. 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
B-cell aplasia leading to hypogammaglobulinaemia can occur in patients receiving treatment with 
Breyanzi. Hypogammaglobulinaemia has been very commonly observed in patients treated with 
Breyanzi (see section 4.8). Immunoglobulin levels should be monitored after treatment and managed 
per clinical guidelines including infection precautions, antibiotic prophylaxis and/or immunoglobulin 
replacement. 
Secondary malignancies 
Patients treated with Breyanzi may develop secondary malignancies. Patients should be monitored 
life-long for secondary malignancies. In the event that a secondary malignancy of T-cell origin occurs, 
the company should be contacted to obtain instructions on the collection of tumour samples for testing. 
Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) 
TLS may occur in patients treated with CAR T therapies. To minimise the risk of TLS, patients with 
elevated uric acid or high tumour burden should receive allopurinol, or an alternative prophylaxis, 
prior to Breyanzi infusion. Signs and symptoms of TLS should be monitored and managed in 
accordance with clinical guidelines. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Allergic reactions may occur with the infusion of Breyanzi. Serious hypersensitivity reactions 
including anaphylaxis, may be due to dimethyl sulfoxide. 
Transmission of an infectious agent 
Although Breyanzi is tested for sterility and mycoplasma, a risk of transmission of infectious agents 
exists. Healthcare professionals administering Breyanzi must, therefore, monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of infections after treatment and treat appropriately, if needed. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interference with virological testing 
Due to limited and short spans of identical genetic information between the lentiviral vector used to 
create Breyanzi and HIV, some HIV nucleic acid tests (NAT) may give a false positive result. 
Prior stem cell transplantation (GVHD) 
It is not recommended that patients who underwent an allogeneic stem cell transplant and suffer from 
active acute or chronic GVHD receive treatment because of the potential risk of Breyanzi worsening 
GVHD. 
Long-term follow-up 
Patients are expected to be enrolled in a registry and will be followed in the registry in order to better 
understand the long-term safety and efficacy of Breyanzi. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 12.5 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 0.6% of the WHO 
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
This medicinal product contains 0.2 mmol (or 6.5 mg) potassium per vial. To be taken into 
consideration by patients with reduced kidney function or patients on a controlled potassium diet. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed in humans. 
Monoclonal antibodies directed against the epidermal growth factor receptor (anti-EGFR mabs) 
Long-term persistence of CAR T cells may be affected by the subsequent use of anti-EGFR mabs 
however, there is limited information available on the clinical use of anti-EGFR mabs in patients 
treated with Breyanzi. 
Live vaccines 
The safety of immunisation with live viral vaccines during or following treatment with Breyanzi has 
not been studied. As a precautionary measure, vaccination with live vaccines is not recommended for 
at least 6 weeks prior to the start of lymphodepleting chemotherapy, during Breyanzi treatment, and 
until immune recovery following treatment. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Pregnancy status for women of child-bearing potential should be verified using a pregnancy test prior 
to starting treatment with Breyanzi. 
See the prescribing information for fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for information on the need for 
effective contraception in patients who receive the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. 
There are insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation concerning duration of 
contraception following treatment with Breyanzi. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of lisocabtagene maraleucel in pregnant women. No animal 
reproductive and developmental toxicity studies have been conducted to assess whether it can cause 
foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman (see section 5.3). 
It is not known if lisocabtagene maraleucel has the potential to be transferred to the foetus. Based on 
the mechanism of action, if the transduced cells cross the placenta, they may cause foetal toxicity, 
including B-cell lymphocytopenia. Therefore, Breyanzi is not recommended for women who are 
pregnant, or for women of childbearing potential not using contraception. Pregnant women should be 
advised on the potential risks to the foetus. Pregnancy after Breyanzi therapy should be discussed with 
the treating physician. 
Assessment of immunoglobulin levels and B-cells in newborns of mothers treated with should be 
considered. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether lisocabtagene maraleucel is excreted in human milk or transferred to the breast-
feeding child. Women who are breast-feeding should be advised of the potential risk to the breast-fed 
child. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effect of lisocabtagene maraleucel on fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Breyanzi may have major influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Due to the potential for neurologic events, including altered mental status or seizures with Breyanzi, 
patients receiving Breyanzi should refrain from driving or operating heavy or potentially dangerous 
machines for at least 8 weeks after Breyanzi infusion. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL 
The adverse reactions described in this section were characterised in 177 patients infused with 
Breyanzi from 3 pooled studies TRANSFORM [BCM-003], PILOT [017006], and TRANSCEND 
WORLD [JCAR017-BCM-001, cohort 2]. 
The most common adverse reactions of any grade were neutropenia (71%), anaemia (45%), 
CRS (45%), and thrombocytopenia (43%). 
The most common serious adverse reactions were CRS (12%), neutropenia (3%), bacterial infectious 
disorders (3%), infection with an unspecified pathogen (3%), thrombocytopenia (2%), 
febrile neutropenia (2%), pyrexia (2%), aphasia (2%), headache (2%), confusional state (2%), 
pulmonary embolism (2%), anaemia (1%), upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage (1%), and tremor (1%). 
The most common Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions included neutropenia (68%), 
thrombocytopenia (33%), anaemia (31%), lymphopenia (17%), leukopenia (17%), febrile 
neutropenia (5%), and bacterial infections (5%). 
Patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The adverse reactions described in this section were characterised in 384 patients infused with 
Breyanzi from 4 pooled studies (TRANSCEND [017001], TRANSCEND WORLD [JCAR017-BCM-
001, cohort 1, 3 and 7], PLATFORM [JCAR017-BCM-002] and OUTREACH [017007]. 
The most common adverse reactions of any grade were neutropenia (68%), anaemia (45%), 
CRS (38%), fatigue (37%), and thrombocytopenia (36%). 
The most common serious adverse reactions were CRS (18%), infection with an unspecified 
pathogen (6%), pyrexia (4%), encephalopathy (4%), febrile neutropenia (4%), neutropenia (3%), 
thrombocytopenia (3%), aphasia (3%), bacterial infectious disorders (3%), tremor (3%), confusional 
state (3%), anaemia 2% and hypotension (2%). 
The most common Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions included neutropenia (64%), anaemia (34%), 
thrombocytopenia (29%), leukopenia (25%), lymphopenia (9%), infection with an unspecified 
pathogen (8%) and febrile neutropenia (8%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions are based on pooled data from 6 studies (TRANSCEND 
[017001], TRANSCEND WORLD [JCAR017-BCM-001, cohort 1, 2, 3 and 7], PLATFORM 
[JCAR017-BCM-002], OUTREACH [017007], TRANSFORM [BCM-003], and PILOT [017006]), in 
561 adult patients within the dose range of 44-120 x 106 CAR-positive viable T cells with R/R LBCL, 
defined as DLBCL, HGBCL, PMBCL and FL3B, who received a dose of lisocabtagene maraleucel. 
The adverse reaction frequencies from clinical studies are based on all-cause adverse event 
frequencies, where a proportion of the events for an adverse reaction may have other causes. 
Adverse reactions reported are presented below. These reactions are presented by MedDRA system 
organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) and uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in the order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 3: 
Adverse drug reactions identified with Breyanzi 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
System Organ Class 
(SOC) 
Infections and 
infestationsa 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Immune system disorders  Very common 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
13 
Infections - pathogen unspecified 
Bacterial infectious disorders 
Viral infectious disorders 
Fungal infectious disorders 
Neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Leukopenia 
Lymphopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Hypofibrinogenaemia 
Pancytopenia 
Cytokine release syndrome 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia 
 Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
Hypophosphataemia 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Insomnia 
Deliriumb 
Anxiety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
(SOC) 
Nervous system disorders  Very common 
Frequency 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Very common 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
Headachec 
Encephalopathyd 
Dizzinesse 
Tremorf 
Aphasiag  
Peripheral neuropathyh 
Visual disturbancei 
Ataxiaj 
Taste disorderk 
Cerebellar syndromel 
Cerebrovascular disorderm 
Seizuren 
Facial paralysis 
Brain oedema 
Tachycardia 
Arrhythmiao 
Cardiomyopathy 
Hypotension 
Hypertension  
Thrombosisp 
Cough 
Dyspnoeaq 
Pleural effusion 
Hypoxia 
Pulmonary oedema 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain 
Vomiting 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhager 
Rash 
Acute kidney injurys 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Oedemat 
Chills 
Infusion related reaction 
a  Infections and infestations are grouped per MedDRA high level group term 
b  Delirium includes agitation, delirium, delusion, disorientation, hallucination, hallucination visual, irritability, 
restlessness 
c  Headache includes headache, migraine, migraine with aura, sinus headache 
d  Encephalopathy includes amnesia, cognitive disorder, confusional state, depersonalisation/ derealisation 
disorder, depressed level of consciousness, disturbance in attention, encephalopathy, flat affect, lethargy, 
leukoencephalopathy, loss of consciousness, memory impairment, mental impairment, mental status changes, 
paranoia, somnolence, stupor 
e  Dizziness includes dizziness, dizziness postural, presyncope, syncope 
f  Tremor includes essential tremor, intention tremor, resting tremor, tremor 
g  Aphasia includes aphasia, disorganised speech, dysarthria, dysphonia, slow speech  
h  Peripheral neuropathy includes demyelinating polyneuropathy, hyperaesthesia, hypoaesthesia, hyporeflexia, 
neuropathy peripheral, paraesthesia, peripheral motor neuropathy, peripheral sensory neuropathy, sensory loss  
14 
 
i  Visual disturbance includes blindness, blindness unilateral, gaze palsy, mydriasis, nystagmus, vision blurred, 
visual field defect, visual impairment 
j  Ataxia includes ataxia, gait disturbance 
k  Taste disorder includes dysgeusia, taste disorder 
l  Cerebellar syndrome includes balance disorder, dysdiadochokinesis, dyskinesia, dysmetria, hand-eye 
coordination impaired 
m Cerebrovascular disorder includes cerebral infarction, cerebral venous thrombosis, haemorrhage intracranial, 
transient ischaemic attack 
n  Seizure includes seizure, status epilepticus 
o  Arrhythmia includes arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, atrioventricular block complete, atrioventricular block 
second degree, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia 
p  Thrombosis includes deep vein thrombosis, embolism, embolism venous, pulmonary embolism, thrombosis, 
vena cava thrombosis, venous thrombosis, venous thrombosis limb 
q  Dyspnoea includes acute respiratory failure, dyspnoea, dyspnoea exertional, respiratory failure. 
r  Gastrointestinal haemorrhage includes gastric haemorrhage, gastric ulcer haemorrhage, gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, haematochezia, lower gastrointestinal haemorrhage, melaena, rectal haemorrhage, upper 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
s  Acute kidney injury includes acute kidney injury, blood creatinine increased, glomerular filtration rate 
decreased, renal failure, renal impairment, renal injury 
t  Oedema includes generalised oedema, localised oedema, oedema, oedema genital, oedema peripheral, 
peripheral swelling, scrotal oedema, swelling. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cytokine release syndrome 
For patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, CRS occurred in 45% of patients, 1% of 
whom experienced Grade 3 CRS (no fatal events). The median time to onset was 4 days (range: 1 to 
63 days, with the upper limit due to CRS onset, without fever, reported in one patient) and the median 
duration of CRS was 4 days (range: 1 to 16 days). 
The most common manifestations of CRS included pyrexia (44%), hypotension (12%), chills (5%), 
hypoxia (5%), tachycardia (4%), headache (3%), and fatigue (2%). 
In clinical studies, 42 of 177 (24%) patients received tocilizumab and/or a corticosteroid for CRS after 
infusion of Breyanzi. Eighteen (10%) patients received tocilizumab only, 24 (14%) patients received 
tocilizumab and a corticosteroid and no patients received corticosteroids only. 
For patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, CRS occurred in 38% of 
patients, 2% of whom experienced Grade 3 or 4 (severe or life-threatening) CRS. There were no fatal 
events. Among patients who died after receiving Breyanzi, 4 had ongoing CRS events at the time of 
death. The median time to onset was 4 days (range: 1 to 14 days) and the median duration was 5 days 
(range: 1 to 17 days). 
The most common manifestations of CRS included pyrexia (38%), hypotension (18%), 
tachycardia (13%), chills (9%), and hypoxia (8%).  
In clinical studies, 74 of 384 (19%) patients received tocilizumab and/or a corticosteroid for CRS after 
infusion of Breyanzi. Thirty-seven (10%) patients received tocilizumab only, 29 (8%) received 
tocilizumab and a corticosteroid and 8 (2%) received corticosteroids only. See section 4.4 for 
monitoring and management guidance. 
Neurologic adverse reactions 
For patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, CAR T cell-associated neurologic 
toxicities, assessed by the investigator, occurred in 18% of patients receiving Breyanzi, including 
Grade 3 in 5% of patients (no fatal events). The median time to onset of the first event was 8 days 
(range: 1 to 63 days); 97% of all neurologic toxicities occurred within the first 8 weeks following 
Breyanzi infusion. The median duration of neurologic toxicities was 6 days (range: 1 to 89 days). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common neurologic toxicities included encephalopathy (10%), tremor (8%), aphasia (5%), 
dizziness (2%), and headache (1%). 
For patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, CAR T cell-associated 
neurologic toxicities assessed by the investigator occurred in 26% of patients receiving Breyanzi, 
including Grade 3 or 4 in 10% of patients (no fatal events). The median time to onset of the first event 
was 9 days (range: 1 to 66 days); 99% of all neurologic toxicities occurred within the first 8 weeks 
following Breyanzi infusion. The median duration of neurologic toxicities was 10 days (range: 1 to 
84 days). 
The most common neurologic toxicities included encephalopathy (18%), tremor (9%), aphasia (8%), 
delirium (7%), headache (4%), ataxia (3%) and dizziness (3%). Seizures (2%) and cerebral 
oedema (0.3%) have also occurred in patients treated with Breyanzi. See section 4.4 for monitoring 
and management guidance of neurologic toxicities. 
Febrile neutropenia and infections 
Febrile neutropenia has been observed in 7% of patients after receiving Breyanzi who received one 
prior line of therapy for LBCL and 9% of patients after receiving Breyanzi who received two or more 
prior lines of therapy. 
For patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, infections (all grades) occurred in 25% 
of patients. Grade 3 or higher infections occurred in 10% of patients. Grade 3 or higher infections with 
an unspecified pathogen occurred in 3% of patients, bacterial infections occurred in 5%, and viral and 
fungal infections occurred in 2% and none of patients, respectively.  
For patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, infections (all grades) 
occurred in 38% of patients. Grade 3 or higher infections occurred in 12% of patients. Grade 3 or 
higher infections with an unspecified pathogen occurred in 8% of patients, bacterial infections 
occurred in 4% of patients, viral and fungal infections occurred in 1% of patients.  
Opportunistic infections (all grades) have been observed in 2% of the 177 patients treated with 
Breyanzi who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, with Grade 3 or higher opportunistic 
infections having occurred in 1% of patients. Opportunistic infections (all grades) have been observed 
in 3% of the 384 patients treated with Breyanzi who received two or more prior lines of therapy for 
LBCL, with Grade 3 or higher opportunistic infections having occurred in 1% of patients. 
No fatal infections were reported from the 177 patients treated with Breyanzi who received one prior 
line of therapy for LBCL. Four fatal infections were reported from the 384 patients treated with 
Breyanzi who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL among pooled LBCL studies. Of 
these, 1 was reported as a fatal opportunistic infection. See section 4.4 for monitoring and 
management guidance. 
Prolonged cytopenias 
For patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, Grade 3 or higher cytopenias present at 
Day 35 following Breyanzi administration, occurred in 35% of patients, and included 
thrombocytopenia (28%), neutropenia (26%), and anaemia (9%). 
Of the 177 total patients treated in TRANSFORM, PILOT, and TRANSCEND WORLD (cohort 2) 
who had Day 35 laboratory findings of Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia (n = 50) or Grade 3- 4 
neutropenia (n = 26) or Grade 3-4 anaemia (n = 15), for whom follow-up laboratory cytopenia results 
were available, the median time (min, max) to resolution (cytopenia recovering to Grade 2 or less) was 
as follows in days: thrombocytopenia 31 days (4, 309); neutropenia 31 days (17, 339); and anaemia 22 
days (4, 64). 
For patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, Grade 3 or higher cytopenias 
present at Day 29 following Breyanzi administration, occurred in 38% of patients, and included 
thrombocytopenia (31%), neutropenia (21%) and anaemia (7%). See section 4.4 for monitoring and 
management guidance. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 384 total patients treated in TRANSCEND, TRANSCEND WORLD (Cohort 1, 3, and 7), 
PLATFORM, and OUTREACH who had Day 29 laboratory findings of Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia 
(n = 117) or Grade 3- 4 neutropenia (n = 80) or Grade 3-4 anaemia (n = 27), for whom follow-up 
laboratory cytopenia results were available, the median time (min, max) to resolution (cytopenia 
recovering to Grade 2 or less) was as follows in days: thrombocytopenia 30 days (2, 329); 
neutropenia 29 days (3, 337); and anaemia 15 days (3, 78). 
Hypogammaglobulinaemia  
For patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL, adverse events of 
hypogammaglobulinemia occurred in 7% of patients. For patients who received two or more prior line 
of therapy for LBCL, adverse events of hypogammaglobulinaemia occurred in 11% of patients. See 
section 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance. 
Immunogenicity  
Breyanzi has the potential to induce antibodies against this medicinal product. Humoral 
immunogenicity of Breyanzi was measured by determination of anti-CAR antibody pre- and post-
administration. In patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL (TRANSFORM, PILOT 
and TRANSCEND WORLD, cohort 2), pre-existing anti-therapeutic antibodies (ATAs) were detected 
in 0.6% (1/169) of patients, and treatment-induced ATAs were detected in 4% (7/168) of patients. In 
the pooled studies for patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL 
(TRANSCEND and TRANSCEND WORLD, cohort’s 1 and 3), pre-existing ATAs were detected 
in 9% (29/309) of patients, and treatment-induced or treatment-boosted ATAs were detected in 16% 
(48/304) of patients. The relationships between ATA status and efficacy, safety or pharmacokinetics 
were not conclusive due to the limited number of patients with ATAs.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No data from clinical studies are available regarding overdose of Breyanzi. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: not yet assigned 
Mechanism of action 
Breyanzi is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous cellular immunotherapy administered as 
a defined composition to reduce variability in CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell dose. The CAR is comprised of 
a murine FMC63 monoclonal antibody-derived single chain variable fragment (scFv), IgG4 hinge 
region, CD28 transmembrane domain, 4-1BB (CD137) costimulatory domain, and CD3 zeta activation 
domain. CD3 zeta signalling is critical for initiating T-cell activation and antitumor activity, while 
4- 1BB (CD137) signalling enhances the expansion and persistence of Breyanzi (see also section 5.2). 
CAR binding to CD19 expressed on the cell surface of tumour and normal B cells induces activation 
and proliferation of CAR T cells, release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and cytotoxic killing of target 
cells. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety   
TRANSFORM 
The efficacy and safety of Breyanzi was compared to the standard of care (SOC) in a phase 3, 
randomised, open-label, parallel group, multicentre study, TRANSFORM (BCM-003), in adult 
patients with large B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma primary refractory to or relapsed within 12 months 
of initial therapy, who were candidates for HSCT. The SOC consisted of salvage 
immunochemotherapy followed by high dose chemotherapy (HDCT) and autologous HSCT. The 
study included patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified (NOS), 
de novo or transformed indolent NHL, high grade B-cell lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 and/or 
BCL6 rearrangements with DLBCL histology (double/triple hit lymphoma [DHL/THL]), primary 
mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), T cell/histiocyte rich large B cell lymphoma 
(THRBCL) or follicular lymphoma Grade 3B (FL3B), per WHO 2016 classification. The study 
included patients with ECOG performance status ≤ 1, and patients with secondary CNS lymphoma 
involvement could be enrolled in study BCM-003 if the individual patient benefit/risk was considered 
positive by the investigator. 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria were chosen to ensure adequate organ function, and blood counts for 
HSCT. The study excluded patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 45 mL/min, alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) > 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF) < 40%, and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 1.0 × 109 cells/L and platelets 
< 50 × 109 cells/L in absence of bone marrow involvement. 
Patients were randomised 1:1 to receive either Breyanzi or SOC. Randomisation was stratified by 
response to first-line therapy, and secondary age adjusted international prognostic index (sAAIPI) 
(0 to 1 versus 2 to 3). Patients randomised to Breyanzi were to receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy 
consisting of fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day and cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2/day concurrently for 3 days 
followed by Breyanzi infusion 2 to 7 days after completion of lymphodepleting chemotherapy.  
In the Breyanzi arm, bridging chemotherapy was permitted between apheresis and the start of 
lymphodepleting chemotherapy with 1 cycle of immunochemotherapy (i.e., rituximab, 
dexamethasone, cytarabine, and cisplatin [R-DHAP], rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and 
etoposide [R-ICE], or rituximab, gemcitabine, dexamethasone, and cisplatin [R-GDP]). All patients 
randomised to the SOC arm were to receive 3 cycles of salvage immunochemotherapy (i.e., R-DHAP, 
R-ICE, or R-GDP). Patients responding (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]) after 
3 cycles were to proceed to HDCT and autologous HSCT. Patients receiving SOC treatment were 
allowed to receive Breyanzi if they failed to achieve CR or PR after 3 cycles of salvage 
immunochemotherapy, or had disease progression at any time, or if the patient needed to start a new 
treatment due to efficacy concerns. 
Of 92 patients randomised to Breyanzi, 58 (63%) received anticancer therapy for disease control 
(bridging therapy), 89 (97%) received Breyanzi and 1 (1%) patient received nonconforming product. 
Two patients did not receive Breyanzi. Of these 2 (2%) patients, 1 (1%) did not receive Breyanzi due 
to manufacturing failure, and 1 (1%) patient withdrew consent prior to treatment. The median dose of 
Breyanzi was 99.9 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells (range: 97-103 × 106 CAR-positive viable T 
cells). 
Of 92 patients randomised to SOC, 91 (99%) patients started treatment. One (1%) patient withdrew 
consent before starting treatment. Forty-three (47%) patients completed immunochemotherapy, HDCT 
and HSCT treatment. Fifty-eight (63%) of patients went on to receive Breyanzi after failing SOC 
treatment. 
The efficacy analyses were based on the ITT analysis set (n=184), which was defined as all patients 
randomised to a treatment arm. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time from leukapheresis to product availability was 26 days (range: 19 to 84 days), and 
the median time from leukapheresis to infusion was 36 days (range: 25 to 91 days). 
Table 4 summarises the baseline patient and disease characteristics in the TRANSFORM trial. 
Table 4: 
Baseline demographic and disease-related characteristics for TRANSFORM 
(intention-to-treat [ITT] analysis set) 
Characteristic 
Median age, years (range) 
≥ 65 to <75 years, n (%) 
≥ 75 years, n (%) 
Sex, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
ECOG Performance Status (at Screening) 
ECOG 0, n (%) 
ECOG 1, n (%) 
Disease histology subtype, n (%) 
DLBCL, NOS 
DLBCL transformed from indolent lymphoma 
High-grade B cell lymphoma 
PMBCL 
FL3B 
T cell rich/histiocyte rich large B-cell lymphoma 
Chemorefractorya, n (%) 
Refractoryb, n (%) 
Relapsedc, n (%) 
Confirmed CNS involvement, n (%) 
Breyanzi 
(N=92) 
60.0 (20, 74) 
36 (39.1) 
0 
SOC 
(N=92) 
58.0 (26, 75) 
23 (25.0) 
2 (2.2) 
44 (47.8) 
48 (52.2) 
48 (52.2) 
44 (47.8) 
53 (57.6) 
7 (7.6) 
22 (23.9) 
8 (8.7) 
1 (1.1) 
1 (1.1) 
26 (28.3) 
67 (72.8) 
25 (27.2) 
1 (1.1) 
61 (66.3) 
31 (33.7) 
57 (62.0) 
35 (38) 
50 (54.3) 
8 (8.7) 
21 (22.8) 
9 (9.8) 
0 
4 (4.3) 
18 (19.6) 
70 (76.1) 
22 (23.9) 
3 (3.3) 
Never achieved CR from prior therapies, n (%) 
a Chemorefractory is defined as experiencing stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) to last chemo-
64 (69.6) 
62 (67.4) 
containing regimen 
b The status was refractory if a patient achieved SD, PD, PR or CR with relapse before 3 months. 
c The status was relapsed if a patient achieved CR with relapse on or after lasting at least 3 months but no more 
than 12 months. 
This study demonstrated statistically significant improvements in the primary endpoint of event free 
survival (EFS), and key secondary endpoints of complete response (CR) rate, and progression-free 
survival (PFS) for patients randomised to Breyanzi compared to SOC. Efficacy was based on EFS as 
determined by an independent review committee (IRC) using 2014 Lugano criteria. EFS was defined 
as the time from randomization to death from any cause, progressive disease, failure to achieve CR or 
PR by 9 weeks post-randomization (after 3 cycles of salvage immunochemotherapy and 5 weeks after 
Breyanzi infusion) or start of new antineoplastic therapy due to efficacy concerns, whichever occurs 
first. At a pre-specified interim analysis at 80% of the information fraction with a median on-study 
follow up time of 6.2 months (range 0.9 to 20 months), Breyanzi demonstrated a statistically 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significant improvement in EFS compared to the SOC arm (HR = 0.349 [95% CI: 0.229, 0.530], one-
sided p-value <0.0001). The p-value was compared with 0.012 of the allocated alpha for the pre-
specified interim analysis. Breyanzi demonstrated an improvement compared to SOC in DLBCL 
(n=60, HR: 0.357 [95% CI: 0.204, 0.625]) and HGBCL (n=22, HR: 0.413 [95% CI: 0.189, 0.904]). 
The results of the subsequent primary analysis (shown in Table 5 and Figure 1), with a median on-
study follow-up time of 17.5 months (range 0.9 to 37 months), were consistent with the interim 
analysis. 
Table 5: 
TRANSFORM study: Response rate, event-free survival, progression-free 
survival in patients with relapsed or refractory LBCL (ITT analysis set) 
Outcomea 
Event-free survival, (months) 
Number of events n, (%) 
Median [95% CI]b 
Hazard ratio [95% CI] c 
Complete response rate 
n (%) 
Two sided [95% CI] 
One-sided p-valued,e 
Progression-free survival, (months) 
Number of events n, (%) 
Median [95% CI]b 
Hazard ratio [95% CI]c 
One-sided p-value c,d 
Overall survival (OS), (months) 
Number of events n, (%) 
Median [95% CI]b 
Hazard ratio [95% CI]c 
Breyanzi arm 
(N=92) 
SOC arm 
(N=92) 
44 (47.8) 
71 (77.2) 
NR (9.5, NR) 
2.4 (2.2, 4.9) 
0.356 [0.243, 0.522] 
68 (73.9) 
40 (43.5) 
[63.7, 82.5] 
 [33.2, 54.2] 
<0.0001 
37 (40.2) 
52 (56.5) 
NR (12.6, NR) 
6.2 (4.3, 8.6) 
0.400 [0.261, 0.615] 
<0.0001 
28 (30.4) 
38 (41.3) 
NR (29.5, NR) 
29.9 (17.9, NR) 
0.724 [0.443, 1.183] 
NR=not reached; CI=confidence interval.  
a Per the Lugano criteria, as assessed by an IRC. 
b Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
c Based on a stratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
d p-value was compared with 0.021 of the allocated alpha for the primary analysis. 
e Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. 
Of the 92 patients in the Breyanzi arm, 80 (68 CR,12 PR) had a response with an overall response 
rate of 87%. 
20 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: 
Kaplan-Meier plot of event-free survival based on IRC Assessment 
(ITT analysis set) 
+ Censored 
HR: 0.356 [0.243, 0.522] 
SOC (71 events) 
Breyanzi (44 events) 
t
n
e
v
E
n
a
t
u
o
h
t
i
W
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
S
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
Time (months) from Randomisation 
SOC 
Breyanzi 
HR: Hazard ratio (stratified) 
TRANSCEND 
The efficacy and safety of Breyanzi were evaluated in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm study, 
TRANSCEND (017001), in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma (NHL). Eligible patients were ≥ 18 years with R/R DLBCL not otherwise specified (NOS), 
per WHO 2008 classification, including DLBCL arising from indolent lymphoma (transformed from 
follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic 
leukaemia, Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia, or other), and high-grade B-cell lymphoma; primary 
mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and follicular lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B), who had 
received at least 2 lines of therapy or after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Patients with 
other subtypes of DLBCL have not been included in the study and benefit-risk have not been 
established. The study included patients with eastern cooperative group (ECOG) performance status 
< 2, prior autologous and/or allogenic haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), and secondary 
CNS lymphoma involvement. Patients who received prior CD19-directed therapy were eligible 
provided CD19-positivity was confirmed on a tumour biopsy at any time after CD19-directed therapy. 
The study excluded patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 30 mL/min, alanine 
aminotransferase > 5 times the upper limit of normal or, left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%. 
There was no minimum requirement for blood counts; patients were eligible to enroll if they were 
assessed by the investigator to have adequate bone marrow function to receive lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy. See Table 6 for baseline demographic and disease-related characteristics. 
Treatment consisted of lymphodepleting (LD) chemotherapy, fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day and 
cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2/day for 3 days, followed by Breyanzi 2 to 7 days later.  
Anticancer therapy for disease control (bridging therapy) was permitted between apheresis and 
lymphodepletion. Of the 229 patients treated with Breyanzi, 137 (60%) received anticancer therapy for 
disease control; the type and duration of bridging therapy was left to the discretion of the investigator.  
21 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median time from leukapheresis to product availability was 24 days (range: 17 to 51 days). In 
addition, the median time from leukapheresis to infusion was 38.5 days (range: 27 to 156 days). 
Of 298 patients who underwent leukapheresis for whom Breyanzi was manufactured in the dose range 
of 44-120 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells, 229 (77%) patients received Breyanzi and 69 (23%) 
patients did not. Of these 69 patients, there were 27 (39%) manufacturing failures including 2 patients 
who did not receive Breyanzi and 25 patients who received treatment with investigational product that 
did not meet release specifications. Forty-two (61%) other patients were not treated with Breyanzi, the 
most frequent reasons being death (n = 29) or disease complications (n = 6). Among the patients 
treated within the range of 44-120 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells, the median dose of Breyanzi was 
87 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells. 
The number of patients who were evaluable for efficacy was 216 (Efficacy set). Thirteen patients were 
not evaluable for efficacy, including 10 patients who did not have baseline positron emission 
tomography-positive (PET+) disease, or confirmation of PET+ disease after anticancer therapy for 
disease control by Independent Review Committee (IRC), and 3 for other reasons. 
Table 6 summarises the baseline patient and disease characteristics in the TRANSCEND study. 
Table 6: 
Baseline demographic and disease-related characteristics for TRANSCEND  
Characteristic 
All leukapheresed 
Breyanzi-treated 
(N=298) 
(N=229) 
Median age, years (range) 
62.0 (18, 82)  
62.0 (18, 82) 
≥ 65 years, n (%) 
≥ 75 years, n (%) 
Sex, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Prior HSCT, n (%) 
Autologous HSCT 
Allogeneic HSCT 
ECOG performance status (at screening) 
ECOG 0-1, n (%) 
ECOG 2, n (%) 
Disease histology subtype, n (%) 
DLBCL, NOS 
DLBCL transformed from indolent lymphoma 
High-grade B cell lymphomaa 
PMBCL 
FL3B 
Median number of prior therapies (range) 
Chemorefractoryb, n (%) 
Refractoryc, n (%) 
Relapsedd, n (%) 
22 
116 (38.9) 
25 (8.4) 
197 (66.1) 
101 (33.9) 
106 (35.6) 
100 (33.6) 
11 (3.7) 
290 (97.3) 
8 (2.7) 
142 (47.7) 
87 (29.2) 
48 (16.1) 
15 (5.0) 
6 (2.0) 
3 (1-12) 
212 (71.1) 
246 (82.6) 
52 (17.4) 
89 (38.9) 
19 (8.3) 
153 (66.8) 
76 (33.2) 
87 (38.0) 
84 (36.7) 
8 (3.5) 
225 (98.3) 
4 (1.7) 
117 (51.1) 
60 (26.2) 
33 (14.4) 
15 (6.6) 
4 (1.7) 
3 (1-8) 
160 (69.9) 
186 (81.2) 
43 (18.8) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Characteristic 
All leukapheresed 
Breyanzi-treated 
Secondary CNS lymphoma at time of Breyanzi 
infusion, n (%) 
(N=298) 
7 (2.3) 
(N=229) 
6 (2.6) 
Never achieved CR from prior therapies, n (%) 
a MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 rearrangements with DLBCL histology. 
b Chemorefractory is defined as experiencing stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) to last chemo-
103 (45.0) 
141 (47.3) 
containing regimen or relapsed < 12 months after autologous stem cell transplantation. 
c The status was refractory if a patient achieved less than a complete response (CR) to last prior therapy. 
d The status was relapsed if a patient achieved CR to last prior therapy. 
Efficacy was assessed on the basis of the primary endpoint, overall response rate (ORR), and 
secondary endpoints which included CR rate, duration of response (DOR) as determined by an 
independent review committee (Table 7 and Figure 2). The median on-study follow-up time was 
20.5 months (range 0.2 to 60.9 months). 
Table 7: 
TRANSCEND study: Response rate, duration of response (IRC assessment) 
Overall response ratea, n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Complete response, n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Partial response, n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Duration of response (DOR)a,b (months) 
Median  
[95% CI]c 
Range 
DOR if best response is CRa,b (months) 
Median  
[95% CI]c 
Range 
All leukapheresed 
(N=298) 
179 (60.1) 
[54.3, 65.7] 
128 (43.0) 
[37.3, 48.8] 
51 (17.1) 
[13.0, 21.9] 
n=179 
16.8 
[8.0, NR] 
0.0, 34.3+ 
n=128 
26.1 
[23.1, NR] 
0.0, 34.3+ 
Efficacy set 
(N=216) 
157 (72.7) 
[66.2, 78.5] 
115 (53.2)  
[46.4, 60.0] 
42 (19.4)  
[14.4, 25.4] 
n=157 
20.5 
[8.2, NR] 
0.0, 34.3+ 
n=115 
26.1 
[23.1, NR] 
0.0, 34.3+ 
CI=confidence interval; CR=complete response; IRC=Independent Review Committee; KM=Kaplan-Meier; 
NR=not reached  
a  Per the Lugano 2014 criteria, as assessed by IRC. 
b  Deaths after initiation of anti-cancer treatment were considered as events. 
c  KM method was used to obtain 2-sided 95% CIs. 
+  Ongoing. 
The median time to response (CR or partial response [PR]) was 1.0 months (range: 0.7 to 8.9 months). 
The median time to CR was 1.0 months (range: 0.8 to 12.5 months). Response durations were longer 
in patients who achieved a CR, as compared to patients with a best response of PR.  
Six patients with secondary CNS lymphoma were treated and evaluable for efficacy in the 
TRANSCEND study. Three of these six patients achieved a CR; 2 of 3 patients had durable remissions 
of 23 months that remained ongoing at study completion. The safety profile of these patients with 
secondary CNS lymphoma was consistent with that observed in the overall population.  
In the Efficacy set, the ORR results within PMBCL and FL3B were 79% (11/14 patients) and 100% 
(4/4 patients) respectively. CR rates were 50% for PMBCL and 100% for FL3B. The safety profile 
was consistent across these subtypes.  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the Efficacy set, the ORR results within patients with DLBCL transformed (t) from prior indolent 
lymphoma of FL, marginal cell lymphoma (MZL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic 
lymphoma; (CLL/SLL), and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM) were 86% (38/44 patients), 43% 
(3/7 patients), 50% (2/4 patients) and 50% (1/2 patients), respectively. CR rates were 61.4% for tFL, 
29% for tMZL, 25% for tCLL/SLL (Richter’s syndrome), and 0% for WM, respectively. The safety 
profile was consistent across these subtypes. Durable remissions (i.e.  DOR ≥ 12 months) were 
observed in patients with tFL and tMZL, however, there is very limited experience for patients with 
tCLL/SLL (4 patients) and tWM (2 patients) in whom maximal DORs of 2 and 5.3 months, 
respectively were observed. The safety profile was consistent across these subtypes. 
In clinical studies of Breyanzi, 89 (39%) of the 229 patients in TRANSCEND were 65 years of age or 
older, and 19 (8%) were 75 years of age or older. The safety or efficacy of Breyanzi observed between 
these patients and younger patients was similar. 
Eleven patients received prior CD19-directed therapy and had efficacy and safety outcomes similar to 
the overall population. All patients had CD19 expression prior to Breyanzi infusion. 
There is limited experience of the use of Breyanzi for patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group (ECOG) performance status of 2 prior to apheresis (4 patients), and prior allogeneic HSCT 
(8 patients). 
Amongst 229 Breyanzi-treated patients, the majority of patients (n = 209) received Breyanzi within 
the recommended CD4:CD8 ratio range of 0.8 to 1.2. There is limited experience of the use 
of Breyanzi outside this CD4:CD8 ratio range (n = 19 above 1.2, n = 1 below 0.8) which therefore 
limits the interpretation of the data in this subgroup. 
Of the 115 patients who achieved CR, 82 (71%) had remission lasting at least 6 months and 74 (64%) 
had remission lasting at least 12 months.  
Figure 2: 
Duration of response for responders per IRC assessment, TRANSCEND Efficacy 
set  
+ Censored 
)
%
(
,
e
s
n
o
p
s
e
r
d
e
u
n
i
t
n
o
c
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
CR/PR 
CR = complete response; PR = partial response. 
Deaths after initiation of anti-cancer treatment were considered as events 
Duration of Response (Months) 
Response Group 
CR/PR 
Eleven patients with a history of hepatitis B or hepatitis C were treated with Breyanzi without hepatitis 
reactivation, while receiving antiviral suppressive therapy in accordance with clinical guidelines (see 
section 4.4).   
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRANSCEND WORLD 
TRANSCEND WORLD is an ongoing single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 study. Its Cohort 1 purpose is 
to provide clinical experience with Breyanzi in Europe for the treatment of adult patients 3L+ large 
B-cell lymphoma, defined as R/R DLBCL (DLBCL NOS [de novo], transformed FL), high-grade 
B-cell lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 and /or BCL6 rearrangements with DLBCL histology and 
FL3B per WHO 2016 classification. Patients previously treated with CD19-targeted therapy were 
excluded. See Table 8 below for baseline demographics and disease-related characteristics. 
Table 8: 
Baseline demographic and disease-related characteristics for TRANSCEND 
WORLD (Cohort 1) 
Characteristic 
All leukapheresed 
Breyanzi-treated 
Median age, years (range) 
≥ 65 years, n (%) 
≥ 75 years, n (%) 
Sex, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Prior HSCT, n (%) 
Autologous HSCT 
Allogeneic HSCT 
ECOG performance status (at screening) 
ECOG 0, n (%) 
ECOG 1, n (%) 
ECOG 2, n (%) 
Disease histology subtype, n (%) 
DLBCL, NOS 
High-grade B cell lymphomaa 
PMBCL 
FL3B 
Chemorefractoryb, n (%) 
Refractoryc, n (%) 
(N=45) 
64.0 (26, 73) 
19 (42.2) 
0 
30 (66.7) 
15(33.3) 
14 (31.1) 
14 (31.1) 
0 
26 (57.8) 
18 (40.0) 
1 (2.2) 
36 (80.0) 
7 (15.6) 
0 
2 (4.4) 
37 (82.2) 
36 (80.0) 
(N=36) 
61.5 (26.0, 72.0) 
14 (38.9) 
0 
25 (69.4) 
11 (30.6) 
12 (33.3) 
12 (33.3) 
0  
19 (52.8) 
16 (44.4) 
1 (2.8) 
31 (86.1) 
4 (11.1) 
0 
1 (2.8) 
29 (80.6) 
28 (77.8) 
Relapsedd, n (%) 
a MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 rearrangements with DLBCL histology. 
b Chemorefractory is defined as experiencing stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) to last chemo-
8 (22.2) 
9 (20.0) 
containing regimen or relapsed < 12 months after autologous stem cell transplantation. 
c The status was refractory if a patient achieved less than a complete response (CR) to last prior therapy. 
d The status was relapsed if a patient achieved CR to last prior therapy. 
At the time of the most recent data cut-off (28 October 2021), 45 patients in cohort 1 had been 
leukapheresed and 36 patients treated with Breyanzi, with a median follow-up time of 15.8 months. 
The median time from leukapheresis to product availability was 29 days (range: 24 to 38 days). In the 
Breyanzi-treated group, the ORR was 61.1% (95% CI: 43.5-76.9), and the CR rate was 
33.3% (95% CI: 18.6-51.0). The disease burden and baseline demographics were indicative of 
advanced, aggressive disease characteristics. The safety profile of Breyanzi was consistent with the 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overall pooled safety population. See section 4.8 for adverse drug reactions associated with 
lisocabtagene maraleucel.  
Paediatric population  
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Breyanzi in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in paediatric patients weighing at least 
6 kg for the treatment of mature B-cell neoplasms (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following infusion, Breyanzi exhibited an initial expansion followed by a bi-exponential decline. In 
TRANSCEND, in patients who received two or more prior lines of therapy for LBCL, the median time 
of maximal expansion in peripheral blood occurred 11 days after the first infusion. Breyanzi was 
present in peripheral blood for up to 2 years.  
Among patients who received one prior line of therapy for LBCL (TRANSFORM), the median Cmax in 
responders (N=76) and non-responders (N=7) were 33,285 and 95,618 copies/ µg, respectively. The 
median AUC0-28d in responders and non-responders were 268,887 and 733,406 day*copies/ µg, 
respectively. 
In TRANSCEND, responders (N = 150) had a 2.85-fold higher median Cmax than non-responders 
(N = 45) (33,766.0 vs. 11,846.0 copies/µg). Responders had a 2.22-fold higher median AUC0-28d than 
non-responders (257,769.0 vs. 116,237.3 day*copies/µg).  
In TRANSCEND, patients < 65 years old (N = 145) had a 2.93-fold and 2.35-fold higher median Cmax 
and AUC0-28d, respectively, compared to patients ≥ 65 years old (N = 102, including 77 patients with 
age 65 - 74 years, 24 with age 75 - 84 years, and 1 with age ≥ 85 years). Sex and body weight did not 
show clear relationships to Cmax and AUC0-28d.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data   
Genotoxicity assays and carcinogenicity studies were not conducted.  
In vitro expansion studies from healthy donors and patients showed no evidence for transformation 
and/or immortalization and no preferential integration near genes of concern in Breyanzi T cells.  
Given the nature of the product, non-clinical studies on fertility, reproduction and development were 
not conducted. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Cryostor CS10  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium gluconate 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Potassium chloride 
Magnesium chloride 
Human albumin 
N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan 
Caprylic acid 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial when stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen 
13 months. 
After thawing 
The product should be administered immediately after thawing. In-use storage times and conditions 
should not exceed 2 hours at room temperature (15 °C-25 °C). 
Do not refreeze. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Breyanzi must be stored and transported frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C) and 
must remain frozen until the patient is ready for treatment to ensure viable cells are available for 
patient administration. Thawed medicinal product should not be refrozen. 
For storage conditions after thawing of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container   
Breyanzi is supplied in cryopreservation vials made of cyclic olefin copolymer. Each 5 mL vial 
contains 4.6 mL cell dispersion. 
The CAR-positive viable T cells (CD8+ cell component or CD4+ cell component) are presented in 
individual cartons containing up to 4 vials of each component, depending upon the cryopreserved drug 
product CAR-positive viable T cell concentration. 
The cartons of CD8+ cell component and CD4+ cell component are contained in a single outer carton. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product  
•  Breyanzi must be transported within the treatment centre in closed, break-proof, leak-proof 
containers. 
•  This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Breyanzi 
should take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective clothing and eye protection) to 
avoid potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
Before thawing the vials  
• 
• 
Confirm the patient’s identity with the patient identifiers on the shipper. 
Breyanzi is composed of CAR-positive viable T cells formulated as separate CD8+ and CD4+ 
cell components; there is a separate release for infusion certificate (RfIC) for each cell 
component. Read the RfIC (affixed inside the shipper) for information on the number of 
syringes you will need and the volume to be administered of the CD8+ and CD4+ cell 
components (syringe labels are provided with the RfIC). 
Confirm the infusion time in advance and adjust the start time of Breyanzi thaw such that it will 
be available for infusion when the patient is ready. 
• 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Once the vials of CAR-positive viable T cells (CD8+ cell and CD4+ cell components) are 
removed from frozen storage, the thaw must be carried to completion and the cells administered 
within 2 hours. 
Thawing the vials 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Confirm the patient’s identity with the patient identifiers on the outer carton and release for 
infusion certificate (RfIC). 
Remove the CD8+ cell component carton and CD4+ cell component carton from the outer 
carton. 
Open each inner carton and visually inspect the vial(s) for damage. If the vials are damaged, 
contact the company. 
Carefully remove the vials from the cartons, place vials on a protective barrier pad, and thaw at 
room temperature. Thaw all vials at the same time. Take care to keep the CD8+ and CD4+ 
cell components separate. 
Dose preparation 
• 
Based on the concentration of CAR-positive viable T cells for each component, more than one 
vial of each of the CD8+ and CD4+ cell components may be required to complete a dose. A 
separate syringe should be prepared for each CD8+ or CD4+ cell component vial received. 
Note: The volume to be drawn up and infused may differ for each component. 
• 
• 
• 
Each 5 mL vial contains a total extractable volume of 4.6 mL of CD8+ or CD4+ cell component 
T cells. The release for infusion certificate (RfIC) for each component indicates the volume 
(mL) of cells to be drawn up into each syringe. Use the smallest Luer-lock tip syringe necessary 
(1 mL to 5 mL) to draw up the specified volume from each vial. A 5 mL syringe should not be 
used for volumes less than 3 mL. 
Prepare the syringe(s) of the CD8+ cell component first. Confirm that the patient identifiers 
on the CD8+ cell component syringe label match the patient identifiers on the CD8+ cell 
component vial label. Affix the CD8+ cell component syringe labels to the syringe(s) prior to 
pulling the required volume into the syringe(s). 
Repeat the process for the CD4+ cell component. 
Note: It is important to confirm that the volume drawn up for each cell component matches the 
volume specified in the respective release for infusion certificate (RfIC). 
Withdrawal of the required volume of cells from each vial into a separate syringe should be carried out 
using the following instructions: 
1.  Hold the thawed vial(s) upright and gently invert the vial(s) to mix the cell product. If any 
clumping is apparent, continue to invert the vial(s) until clumps have dispersed and cells appear 
to be evenly resuspended. 
Vial upright  Vial inverted 
2.  Visually inspect the thawed vial(s) for damage or leaks. Do not use if the vial is damaged or if 
the clumps do not disperse; contact the company. The liquid in the vials should be slightly 
opaque to opaque, colourless to yellow, or brownish-yellow. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Remove the polyaluminium cover (if present) from the bottom of the vial and swab the septum 
with an alcohol wipe. Allow to air dry before proceeding. 
NOTE: The absence of the polyaluminium cover does not impact the sterility of the vial. 
4.  Keeping the vial(s) upright, cut the seal on the tubing line on the top of the vial immediately 
above the filter to open the air vent on the vial.  
NOTE: Be careful to select the correct tubing line with the filter. Cut ONLY the tubing with a 
filter. 
5.  Hold a 20 gauge, 1-1 ½ inch needle, with the opening of the needle tip away from the retrieval 
port septum.  
a. 
Insert the needle into the septum at a 45 °-60 ° angle to puncture the retrieval port 
septum.  
b.  Increase the angle of the needle gradually as the needle enters the vial.  
a 
b 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
6.  WITHOUT drawing air into the syringe, slowly withdraw the target 
volume (as specified in the release for infusion certificate, RfIC).  
7.  Carefully inspect the syringe for signs of debris prior to proceeding. If there is debris, contact 
the company. 
8.  Verify that the volume of CD8+/CD4+ cell component matches the volume specified for the 
relevant component in the release for infusion certificate (RfIC).  
Once the volume is verified, shift the vial and syringe to a horizontal position, and remove the 
syringe/needle from the vial.  
Carefully detach the needle from the syringe and cap the syringe. 
9.  Continue to keep the vial horizontal and return it to the carton to avoid leaking from the vial. 
10.  Dispose of any unused portion of Breyanzi. 
Administration 
For additional information on administration, see section 4.2. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Use intravenous sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to flush all the infusion 
tubing prior to and after each CD8+ or CD4+ cell component administration. 
Administer the CD8+ cell component first. The entire volume of the CD8+ cell component is 
administered intravenously at an infusion rate of approximately 0.5 mL/minute, using the 
closest port or Y-arm (piggyback). 
If more than one syringe is required for a full dose of the CD8+ cell component, administer the 
volume in each syringe consecutively without any time between administering the contents of 
the syringes (unless there is a clinical reason to hold the dose, e.g., infusion reaction). After the 
CD8+ cell component has been administered, flush the tubing with sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Administer the CD4+ cell component immediately after administration of the CD8+ cell 
component is complete, using the same steps and infusion rate described for the CD8+ cell 
component. Following administration of the CD4+ cell component, flush the tubing with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, using enough flush to clear the tubing 
and the length of the IV catheter. The time for infusion will vary and will usually be less than 
15 minutes for each component. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
• 
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human derived material must be 
followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Breyanzi must 
be decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
•  Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Breyanzi (solid and liquid 
waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1631/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 04 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCES AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCES AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substances 
Juno Therapeutics Inc. 
1522 217th Pl. SE 
Bothell 
WA 98021 
United States 
Celgene Corporation 
556 Morris Avenue 
Summit, New Jersey 07901 
United States 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Celgene Distribution B.V. 
Orteliuslaan 1000  
3528 BD Utrecht  
Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Key elements: 
Availability of tocilizumab and site qualification via the controlled distribution programme 
The MAH will ensure that hospitals and their associated centres that dispense Breyanzi are qualified in 
accordance with the agreed controlled distribution programme by: 
• 
ensuring immediate, on-site access to 1 dose of tocilizumab per patient prior to Breyanzi 
infusion. The treatment centre must also have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 
8 hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to 
a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensuring that 
suitable alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab are available on-site. 
healthcare professionals (HCPs) involved in the treatment of a patient have completed the 
educational programme. 
• 
Educational Programme 
Prior to the launch of Breyanzi in each Member State, the MAH must agree on the content and format 
of the educational materials with the National Competent Authority. 
HCP Educational Programme 
All HCPs who are expected to prescribe, dispense and administer Breyanzi shall be provided with a 
healthcare professional guide, which will contain information about: 
identification of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions; 
- 
management of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions; 
- 
adequate monitoring of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions; 
- 
provision of all relevant information to patients; 
- 
ensuring immediate, on-site access to 1 dose of tocilizumab per patient prior to Breyanzi 
- 
infusion. The treatment centre must have access to an additional dose of tocilizumab within 
8 hours of each previous dose. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to 
a shortage that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that 
suitable alternative measures to treat CRS are available on-site; 
contact details for tumour sample testing after development of a secondary malignancy of T cell 
origin;. 
provide information about the safety and efficacy long-term follow up study and the 
importance of contributing to such a study; 
ensure that adverse reactions are adequately and appropriately reported; 
ensure that detailed instructions about the thawing procedure are provided. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Patient educational programme 
All patients who receive Breyanzi shall be provided with a patient card, which will contain the 
following key messages: 
- 
- 
the risks of CRS and serious neurologic adverse reactions associated with Breyanzi;  
the need to report the symptoms of suspected CRS and neurotoxicity to their treating doctor 
immediately; 
the need to remain in the proximity of the location where Breyanzi was received for at least 
4 weeks following Breyanzi infusion; 
the need to carry the patient card at all times; 
a reminder to patients to show the patient card to all HCPs, including in conditions of 
emergency, and a message for HCPs that the patient has been treated with Breyanzi; 
fields to record contact details of the prescriber and batch number. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
In order to further assess the consistency of product quality and clinical 
outcomes, the MAH shall submit batch analysis and corresponding clinical safety 
and effectiveness data from a minimum of thirty (30) lots of Breyanzi finished 
product used to treat patients included in a non-interventional study based on 
secondary use of data from existing registries, according to an agreed protocol. 
Based on this data the MAH should also provide an evaluation on the need for a 
revision of the finished product specifications. Interim reports should be provided 
after approximately 15 lots and any significant out of trend results should be 
reported immediately. 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to 
further characterise the long-term safety and efficacy of Breyanzi in its 
approved indications the MAH shall conduct and submit the results of a 
prospective study based on data from a registry, according to an agreed 
protocol.  
Due date 
Interim 
reports to be 
submitted in 
accordance 
with the 
RMP. 
Final report 
by 31 
December 
2026 
Interim 
reports to be 
submitted in 
accordance 
with the 
RMP. 
Final report: 
Q4-2043 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells genetically modified with a lentiviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) consisting of CD8+ and CD4+ cell components with a strength of 
1.1-70 × 106 CAR+ viable T cells/mL for each component. 
This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: Cryostor CS10, sodium chloride, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate trihydrate, 
potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, human albumin, N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan, caprylic acid, 
water for injections. See package leaflet for further infomation. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
Contains 1-4 vials CD8+ cell component and 1-4 vials CD4+ cell component. 
Contents: 4.6 mL cell dispersion/vial. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Do not irradiate. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Read the package leaflet and release for infusion certificate before use. 
STOP Confirm patient ID prior to infusion. 
Give CD8+ cell component first. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
CD8+ cell 
component 
CD4+ cell component 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C).  
Do not refreeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. 
Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in compliance with the local guidelines on 
handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1631/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Verify patient ID 
SEC: 
First: 
Last: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
CD8+ cell 
component 
CD4+ cell component 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INNER CARTON 
CARTON (CD8+ CELL COMPONENT) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells genetically modified with a lentiviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) 
CD8+ cell component 
Vial contains 5.1-322 × 106 CAR + viable T cells in 4.6 mL (1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: Cryostor CS10, sodium chloride, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate trihydrate, 
potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, human albumin, N acetyl-DL-tryptophan, caprylic acid, 
water for injections. See outer carton and leaflet for further infomation. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
1-4 vials CAR + viable T cells (CD8+ cell component). 
Contents: 4.6 mL cell dispersion/vial. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Do not irradiate. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Read the outer carton, release for infusion certificate and package leaflet before use. 
1. CD8+ Give first 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C).  
Do not refreeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains  human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1631/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Verify patient ID 
First: 
Last: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON INNER CARTON 
CARTON (CD4+ CELL COMPONENT) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells genetically modified with a lentiviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) 
CD4+ cell component 
Vial contains 5.1-322 × 106 CAR+ viable T cells in 4.6 mL (1.1- 70 × 106 cells/mL). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: Cryostor CS10, sodium chloride, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate trihydrate, 
potassium chloride, magnesium chloride, human albumin, N acetyl-DL-tryptophan, caprylic acid, 
water for injections. See outer carton and leaflet for further infomation. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersion for infusion 
1-4 vials CAR+ viable T cells (CD4+ cell component). 
Contents: 4.6 mL cell dispersion/vial. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Do not irradiate. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Read the outer carton, release for infusion certificate and package leaflet before use. 
2. CD4+ Give second 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For autologous use only 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C).  
Do not refreeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1631/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Verify patient ID 
First: 
Last: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL (CD8+ CELL COMPONENT) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
1. CD8+ Give first 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Verify patient ID 
First: 
Last: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
CD8+ cell component 5.1-322 × 106 cells/4.6 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
For autologous use only 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL (CD4+ CELL COMPONENT) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL /1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
2. CD4+ Give second 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Verify patient ID 
First: 
Last: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
CD4+ cell component 5.1-322 × 106 cells/4.6 mL. 
6. 
OTHER 
For autologous use only 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE RELEASE FOR INFUSION CERTIFICATE (RfIC) 
INCLUDED WITH EACH SHIPMENT FOR ONE PATIENT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (CAR+ viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Autologous human T cells genetically modified with a lentiviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) consisting of CD8+ and CD4+ cell components with a strength of 
1.1 -70 × 106 CAR+ viable T cells/mL for each component. 
3. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Dispersion for infusion 
1-4 vials CAR+ viable T cells  
Contents: 4.6 mL cell dispersion/vial. 
CD8+ cell component 
CD4+ cell component 
Vial contains 5.1-322 × 106 CAR+ viable T cells in 4.6 mL (1.1- 70 × 106 cells/mL). 
Dose of the medicinal product: 
Refer to the product information for full dosing instructions. Dose verification worksheet provided at 
the end of this release for infusion certificate (RfIC). 
Dose 
CAR+ viable T 
cell concentration 
Total volume to be 
dosed 
Volume to be 
dosed from each 
vial 
[variable field] × 106 CAR+ viable T cells 
[variable field] × 106 CAR+ viable T cells /mL 
[variable field] mL  Number of vials required: 
[variable field] 
First Vial  
[variable field] mL  Third Vial  
[variable field] mL 
or ☒ N/A 
Second Vial  
[variable field] mL 
or ☒ N/A 
Important: Use one syringe per vial. Ensure that only the listed “Volume to be dosed from each 
vial” is infused. 
Fourth Vial   [variable field] mL 
or ☒ N/A 
Syringe label(s) included in this packet 
CD8+ cell component infusion volumes per syringe and syringe labels  
CD4+ cell component infusion volumes per syringe and syringe labels  
Note: Use one syringe per vial. Ensure that only the listed "volume to be dosed from each vial" is 
infused.  
First Syringe volume 
[variable field] mL 
Affix CD8+ cell component syringe #1 label 
here  
Affix CD4+ cell component syringe #1 label 
here 
Peel here 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second Syringe volume 
[variable field] mL OR DELETE  
Third Syringe volume 
[variable field] mL OR DELETE  
Fourth Syringe volume 
[variable field] mL OR DELETE 
Affix CD8+ cell component syringe #2 label 
here 
Affix CD4+ cell component syringe #2 label 
here 
Peel here 
Affix CD8+ cell component syringe #3 label 
here 
Affix CD4+ cell component syringe #3 label 
here 
Peel here 
Affix CD8+ cell component syringe #4 label 
here  
Affix CD4+ cell component syringe #4 label 
here 
Peel here 
4.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the product information before use. 
Intravenous use. 
Do not irradiate. 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Read the outer carton, release for infusion certificate (RfIC) and package leaflet before use. 
5. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
SAVE THIS DOCUMENT AND HAVE IT AVAILABLE WHEN PREPARING FOR 
ADMINISTRATION OF BREYANZI 
To report any concerns or if you have any questions, call:  
Store a copy of this form in the patient’s medical file.  
For autologous use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C). Do not refreeze. 
7. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Product Information 
Manufactured by: 
Manufacture date: 
Expiration date: 
8. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
9. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES 
Patient information 
First name: 
Date of birth: 
JOIN: 
SEC: 
Last name: 
Lot: 
Aph ID/DIN:  
10.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
11.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1631/001 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Breyanzi 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL dispersion for infusion 
lisocabtagene maraleucel (chimeric antigen receptor [CAR] positive viable T cells) 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
Your doctor will give you a Patient card. Read it carefully and follow the instructions on it. 
Always show the Patient card to the doctor or nurse when you see them or if you go into 
hospital. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Breyanzi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Breyanzi 
3.  How Breyanzi is given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Breyanzi 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Breyanzi is and what it is used for 
What Breyanzi is 
Breyanzi contains the active substance lisocabtagene maraleucel, a type of treatment called 
‘genetically modified cell therapy’. 
Breyanzi is made from your own white blood cells.This involves taking some of your blood and 
separating out the white blood cells and sending the white blood cells to a laboratory so that they can 
be modified to make Breyanzi. 
What Breyanzi is used for 
Breyanzi is used to treat adults with a type of blood cancer called lymphoma which affects your lymph 
tissue and causes white blood cells to grow out of control. Breyanzi is used for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
high-grade B-cell lymphoma 
primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma 
follicular lymphoma grade 3B. 
How Breyanzi works 
• 
Breyanzi cells have been genetically modified to recognise the lymphoma cells in your body. 
•  When these cells are then introduced back into your blood, they can recognise and attack the 
lymphoma cells. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Breyanzi 
You should not be given Breyanzi: 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to any of the ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think you 
may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice. 
if you cannot receive treatment, called lymphodepleting chemotherapy, which reduce the 
number of white blood cells in your blood (see also section 3, How Breyanzi is given). 
Warnings and precautions 
Before you are given Breyanzi you should tell your doctor if: 
• 
• 
• 
you have any lung or heart problems 
you have low blood pressure 
you have an infection or other inflammatory conditions. The infection will be treated before you 
are given Breyanzi 
you have had a stem cell transplant from another person in the last 4 months – the transplanted 
cells can attack your body (graft-versus-host disease), causing symptoms such as rash, nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea and bloody stools 
you notice the symptoms of your cancer are getting worse. These symptoms include fever, 
feeling weak, night sweats, sudden weight loss 
you have had hepatitis B or C, or human immunodeficiency (HIV) infection 
you had a vaccination in the last 6 weeks or you are planning to have one in the next few 
months. See Live vaccines below for more information. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor before being given Breyanzi. 
Tests and checks 
Before you are given Breyanzi, your doctor will: 
• 
• 
• 
check your lungs, heart and blood pressure 
look for signs of infection – any infection will be treated before you receive Breyanzi 
look for signs of graft-versus-host disease, which can happen after a stem cell transplant from 
another person 
check your blood for uric acid and for how many cancer cells there are in your blood. This will 
show if you are likely to develop a condition called tumour lysis syndrome. You may be given 
medicines to help prevent the condition. 
check if your cancer is getting worse 
check for hepatitis B and C, and HIV infection 
• 
• 
• 
After you have been given Breyanzi 
• 
If you get certain serious side effects, you must tell your doctor or nurse straight away because 
you may need treatment for them. See section 4 under ‘Serious side effects’. 
Your doctor will regularly check your blood counts, as the number of blood cells may decrease. 
Stay close to the treatment centre where you had Breyanzi for at least 4 weeks. See sections 3 
and 4. 
Do not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells for transplantation. 
• 
• 
• 
You will be asked to enrol in a registry for at least 15 years in order to better understand the long-term 
effects of Breyanzi. 
Children and adolescents 
Breyanzi should not be given to children and adolescents below 18 years of age. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Breyanzi 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines 
including medicines taken without a prescription. 
See section 3 for information about the medicines you will be given before having Breyanzi. 
Medicines that affect your immune system 
Before you are given Breyanzi tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking any medicines that weaken 
your immune system such as: 
• 
corticosteroids. 
This is because these medicines may reduce the effect of Breyanzi. 
Other medicines that treat cancer 
Some anti-cancer medicines could reduce the effect of Breyanzi. Your doctor will consider if you need 
other cancer treatments. 
Live vaccines 
You must not be given certain vaccines called live vaccines: 
• 
in the 6 weeks before you are given the short course of chemotherapy (called lymphodepleting 
chemotherapy) to prepare your body for Breyanzi. 
during Breyanzi treatment 
after treatment while your immune system is recovering. 
• 
• 
Talk to your doctor if you need to have any vaccinations. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before being given this medicine or lymphodepleting chemotherapy. The 
effects of Breyanzi in pregnant or breast-feeding women are not known, and it may harm your unborn 
baby or breast-fed child.  
• 
If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant after treatment with Breyanzi, talk to your 
doctor immediately. 
You will be given a pregnancy test before treatment starts. Breyanzi should only be given if the 
result shows you are not pregnant. 
• 
Discuss the need for contraception with your doctor.  
Discuss pregnancy with your doctor if you have received Breyanzi. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, use machines, or take part in activities that need you to be alert for at least 8 weeks after 
treatment. Breyanzi can make you sleepy, decrease awareness, and cause confusion and seizures (fits). 
Breyanzi contains sodium, potassium and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 
This medicine contains up to 12.5 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per vial. This is 
equivalent to 0.6% of the recommended maximum daily intake of sodium for an adult. Up to 8  vials 
of this medicine may be given per dose, which in total contains 100 mg sodium or 5% of the 
recommended maximum daily intake of sodium for an adult. 
This medicine contains up to 0.2 mmol (or 6.5 mg) potassium per dose. Your doctor will take this 
potassium content into consideration if your kidneys do not work properly or you are on a controlled 
potassium diet. 
This medicine also contains DMSO which may cause severe hypersensitivity reactions. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
3. 
How Breyanzi is given 
Patient Card 
• 
• 
Your doctor will give you a Patient Card. Read it carefully and follow the instructions on it. 
Always show the Patient Card to the doctor or nurse when you see them or if you go to hospital. 
Giving blood to make Breyanzi from your white blood cells 
Breyanzi is made from your own white blood cells 
• 
• 
Your doctor will take some of your blood by putting a tube (catheter) in your vein. Some of 
your white blood cells will be separated from your blood. The rest of your blood is returned to 
your body. This is called leukapheresis and can take 3 to 6 hours. This process may need to be 
repeated. 
Your white blood cells will then be sent away to make Breyanzi. 
Other medicines you will be given before Breyanzi 
• 
A few days before you receive Breyanzi, you will be given a short course of chemotherapy. This 
is to clear away your existing white blood cells. 
Shortly before you receive Breyanzi, you will be given paracetamol and an antihistamine 
medicine. This is to reduce the risk of infusion reactions and fever. 
How Breyanzi is given 
• 
Your doctor will check that the Breyanzi was prepared from your own blood by checking that 
the patient identity information on the medicine labels matches your details. 
Breyanzi is given by infusion (drip) through a tube into a vein. 
You will receive infusions of the CD8 positive cells, followed immediately by infusions of the 
CD4 positive cells. The time for infusion will vary, but will usually be less than 15 minutes for 
each of the 2 cell types. 
After Breyanzi is given 
• 
• 
Stay close to the treatment centre where you received Breyanzi – for at least 4 weeks. 
During the first week after treatment, you will need to return to the treatment centre 2 to 3 times 
so that your doctor can check that the treatment is working – and to help you with any side 
effects. See sections 2 and 4. 
If you miss an appointment 
Call your doctor or the treatment centre as soon as possible to make another appointment. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the following side effects after being given Breyanzi: 
• 
• 
• 
fever, chills or shaking, feeling tired, fast or uneven heartbeat, feeling light-headed and short of 
breath – these may be signs of a serious problem called cytokine release syndrome 
confusion, being less alert (decreased consciousness), difficulty speaking or slurred speech, 
shaking (tremor), feeling anxious, feeling dizzy and headache – these may be signs of problems 
with your nervous system 
feeling warm, fever, chills or shivering – these may be signs of infection 
The infections may be caused by: 
- 
- 
low levels of white blood cells, which help fight infections, or 
low levels of antibodies called immunoglobulins 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
feeling very tired, weak and short of breath – these may be signs of low red blood cell levels 
(anaemia) 
bleeding or bruising more easily –these may be signs of low levels of blood cells known as 
platelets. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the side effects above after being given Breyanzi, as 
you may need urgent medical treatment. 
Other possible side effects 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
•  difficulty sleeping 
• 
low blood pressure including signs such as dizziness, passing out, or change in eyesight 
• 
cough 
• 
feeling sick or being sick 
•  diarrhoea or constipation 
• 
• 
stomach pain  
swollen ankles, arms, legs and face. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
• 
trouble with balancing or walking  
•  high blood pressure which may include signs of very bad headaches, sweating or trouble 
convulsions or seizures (fits) 
sleeping 
changes in vision 
changes in the way things taste 
stroke or mini-strokes 
• 
• 
• 
•  numbness and tingling in the feet or hands 
• 
•  blood clots or problems with blood clotting 
•  bleeding in your gut  
•  passing less urine 
• 
• 
• 
• 
infusion reactions – such as feeling dizzy, fever, and shortness of breath 
low blood levels of phosphates 
low levels of oxygen in the blood 
rash 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
• 
the fast breakdown of cancer cells, resulting in the release of toxic waste products into the 
bloodstream – a sign may be dark urine with symptoms of nausea or pain on side of stomach 
severe inflammatory condition – symptoms may include fever, rash, enlarged liver, spleen and 
lymph nodes  
• 
fluid around the lungs 
•  heart weakness, causing shortness of breath and ankle swelling 
• 
•  weakness of the face muscles 
• 
swelling of the brain 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Breyanzi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the cartons and vial label after ‘EXP’.  
Store frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (≤ -130 °C). 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Breyanzi contains  
• 
The active substance is lisocabtagene maraleucel. Each 4.6 mL vial contains a dispersion of 
CAR-positive viable T cells (CD8 positive cell component or CD4 positive cell component) 
with a strength of 1.1 × 106 to 70 × 106 CAR-positive viable T cells/mL for each cell 
component. There may be up to 4 vials of each of the CD8 positive or CD4 positive cell 
components, depending upon the concentration of cryopreserved medicine. 
• 
The other ingredients (excipients) are Cryostor CS10 (contains dimethyl sulfoxide or DMSO), 
sodium chloride, sodium gluconate, sodium acetate trihydrate, potassium chloride, magnesium 
chloride, human albumin, N-acetyl-DL-tryptophan, caprylic acid, water for injections. See 
section 2, “Breyanzi contains sodium, potassium and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)”. 
This medicine contains genetically modified human blood cells. 
What Breyanzi looks like and contents of the pack 
Breyanzi is a cell dispersion for infusion. It is supplied as vials of slightly opaque to opaque, 
colourless to yellow, or brownish-yellow dispersion. Each vial contains 4.6 mL cell dispersion of 
either CD8 positive or CD4 positive cell component. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Celgene Distribution B.V. 
Orteliuslaan 1000  
3528 BD Utrecht  
Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product  
Breyanzi must be transported within the treatment centre in closed, break-proof, leak-proof containers. 
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Breyanzi 
should take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves, protective clothing and eye protection) to avoid 
potential transmission of infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
Before thawing the vials  
• 
• 
Confirm the patient’s identity with the patient identifiers on the shipper. 
Breyanzi is composed of CAR-positive viable T cells formulated as separate CD8+ and CD4+ 
cell components; there is a separate release for infusion certificate (RfIC) for each cell 
component. Read the RfIC (affixed inside the shipper) for information on the number of 
syringes you will need and the volume to be administered of the CD8+ and CD4+ cell 
components (syringe labels are provided with the RfIC).  
Confirm the infusion time in advance and adjust the start time of Breyanzi thaw such that it will 
be available for infusion when the patient is ready. 
Note: Once the vials of CAR-positive viable T cells (CD8+ and CD4+ cell components) are 
removed from frozen storage, the thaw must be carried to completion and the cells administered 
within 2 hours. 
Thawing the vials 
• 
Confirm the patient’s identity with the patient identifiers on the outer carton and the release for 
infusion certificate (RfIC). 
Remove the CD8+ cell component carton and CD4+ cell component carton from the outer 
carton. 
Open each inner carton and visually inspect the vial(s) for damage. If the vials are damaged, 
contact the company. 
Carefully remove the vials from the cartons, place vials on a protective barrier pad, and thaw at 
room temperature. Thaw all vials at the same time. Take care to keep the CD8+ and CD4+ 
cell components separate. 
Dose preparation 
• 
Based on the concentration of CAR-positive viable T cells for each component, more than one 
vial of each of the CD8+ and CD4+ cell components may be required to complete a dose. A 
separate syringe should be prepared for each CD8+ or CD4+ cell component vial received. 
Note: The volume to be drawn up and infused may differ for each component. 
• 
• 
• 
Each 5 mL vial contains a total extractable volume of 4.6 mL of CD8+ or CD4+ cell component 
T cells. The RFI Certificate for each component indicates the volume (mL) of cells to be drawn 
up into each syringe. Use the smallest Luer-lock tip syringe necessary (1 mL to 5 mL) to draw 
up the specified volume from each vial. A 5 mL syringe should not be used for volumes less 
than 3 mL. 
Prepare the syringe(s) of the CD8+ cell component first. Confirm that the patient identifiers 
on the CD8+ cell component syringe label match the patient identifiers on the CD8+ cell 
component vial label. Affix the CD8+ cell component syringe labels to the syringe(s) prior to 
pulling the required volume into the syringe(s). 
Repeat the process for the CD4+ cell component. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: It is important to confirm that the volume drawn up for each cell component matches the 
volume specified in the respective release for infusion certificate (RfIC).  
Withdrawal of the required volume of cells from each vial into a separate syringe should be carried out 
using the following instructions: 
1.  Hold the thawed vial(s) upright and gently invert the vial(s) to mix the cell product. If any 
clumping is apparent, continue to invert the vial(s) until clumps have dispersed and cells 
appear to be evenly resuspended. 
Vial upright  Vial inverted 
2.  Visually inspect the thawed vial(s) for damage or leaks. Do not use if the vial is damaged or if 
the clumps do not disperse; contact the company. The liquid in the vials should be slightly 
opaque to opaque, colourless to yellow, or brownish-yellow. 
3.  Remove the polyaluminium cover (if present) from the bottom of the vial and swab the septum 
with an alcohol wipe. Allow to air dry before proceeding. 
NOTE: The absence of the polyaluminium cover does not impact the sterility of the vial. 
4.  Keeping the vial(s) upright, cut the seal on the tubing line on the top of the vial immediately 
above the filter to open the air vent on the vial.  
NOTE: Be careful to select the correct tubing line with the filter. Cut ONLY the tubing with a 
filter. 
5.  Hold a 20 gauge, 1–1 ½ inch needle, with the opening of the needle tip away from the retrieval 
port septum.  
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. 
Insert the needle into the septum at a 45 °–60 ° angle to puncture the retrieval port 
septum.  
b.  Increase the angle of the needle gradually as the needle enters the vial.  
 a 
b 
6.  WITHOUT drawing air into the syringe, slowly withdraw the 
target volume (as specified in the release for infusion 
certificate [RfIC]).  
7.  Carefully inspect the syringe for signs of debris prior to proceeding. If there is debris, contact 
the company. 
8.  Verify that the volume of CD8+/CD4+ cell component matches the volume specified for the 
relevant component in the release for infusion certificate (RfIC).  
Once the volume is verified, shift the vial and syringe to a horizontal position, and remove the 
syringe/needle from the vial.  
Carefully detach the needle from the syringe and cap the syringe. 
9.  Continue to keep the vial horizontal and return it to the carton to avoid leaking from the vial. 
10.  Dispose of any unused portion of Breyanzi. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do NOT use a leukodepleting filter. 
Ensure tocilizumab and emergency equipment are available prior to infusion and during the 
recovery period. In the exceptional case where tocilizumab is not available due to a shortage 
that is listed in the European Medicines Agency shortage catalogue, ensure that suitable 
alternative measures to treat CRS instead of tocilizumab are available on-site. 
Confirm the patient’s identity matches the patient identifiers on the syringe label supplied on the 
respective RFI certificate. 
Once Breyanzi has been drawn into syringes, proceed with administration as soon as possible. 
The total time from removal of Breyanzi from frozen storage to patient administration should 
not exceed 2 hours. 
Use intravenous sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection to flush all the infusion 
tubing prior to and after each CD8+ or CD4+ cell component administration. 
Administer the CD8+ cell component first. The entire volume of the CD8+ cell component is 
administered intravenously at an infusion rate of approximately 0.5 mL/minute, using the 
closest port or Y-arm (piggyback). 
If more than one syringe is required for a full dose of the CD8+ cell component, administer the 
volume in each syringe consecutively without any time between administering the contents of 
the syringes (unless there is a clinical reason to hold the dose, e.g. infusion reaction). After the 
CD8+ cell component has been administered, flush the tubing with sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Administer the CD4+ cell component immediately after administration of the CD8+ cell 
component is complete, using the same steps and infusion rate described for the CD8+ cell 
component. Following administration of the CD4+ cell component, flush the tubing with 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, using enough flush to clear the tubing 
and the length of the IV catheter. The time for infusion will vary and will usually be less than 15 
minutes for each component. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure local guidelines on handling of human derived materials must be 
followed. Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Breyanzi must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Breyanzi (solid and liquid 
waste) should be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling human-derived material. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
