European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/317523/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Bridion 
International Nonproprietary Name: sugammadex 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000885 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product .......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1. 
2.2. 
2.3. 
2.4. 
2.5. 
2.6. 
Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 13 
Pharmacovigilance ................................................................................................................. 55 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 59 
2/59 
 
 
1. 
  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant N.V. Organon submitted on 21 June 2007 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Bridion, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 16 November 2006.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 24 June 2005, 18 November 2005 and 9 
February  2007.  The  Scientific  Advice  pertained  to  quality,  non-clinical  and  clinical  aspects  of  the 
dossier.  
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Pirjo Laitinen-Parkkonen  
Co-Rapporteur: Tomas P Salmonson 
3/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 21 June 2007. 
The procedure started on 20 July 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 October 
2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 
October 2007. 
During  the  meeting  on  15  November  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 16 November 2007  
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  20 
February 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 7 April 2008  
During the CHMP meeting on 24 April 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant  
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  outstanding  issues  on  29  April 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 12 May 2008  
During the meeting on 27-30 May 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Bridion  on  30  May  2008.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 28 May 2008  
The CHMP opinions were forwarded, in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 25 July 2008. 
4/59 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1.  Introduction 
Neuromuscular  blocking  agents  (NMBA)  are  used  as  an  adjunct  to  general  anesthesia  to  facilitate 
tracheal  intubation  during  routine  and  rapid  sequence  induction,  and  to  provide  skeletal  muscle 
relaxation during surgery. Reversal agents of neuromuscular blockade are commonly administered at 
the  end  of  surgery  to  accelerate  the  recovery  of  drug-induced  neuromuscular  block.  Currently 
available  reversal  agents  are  cholinesterase  inhibitors  such  as  neostigmine  and  edrophonium,  which 
inhibit the breakdown of acetylcholine with no effect on the metabolism or elimination of the NMBAs 
themselves.  
However, there is an upper limit to the effect of the current reversal agents; once maximum inhibition 
of  the  acetylcholinesterase  activity  has  occurred,  neural  release  of  additional  acetylcholine  becomes 
the  rate-limiting  step  in  restoration  of  normal  muscle  function.  Consequently,  these  agents  are 
ineffective  in  reversing  a  profound  neuromuscular  blockade.  Additionally,  the  duration  of  action  of 
some  reversal  agents  may  be  shorter  than  the  activity  of  the  NMBAs  themselves,  leading  to 
reappearance of the NMB, or residual paralysis. 
As  reversal  may  not  always  be  completely  achieved,  patients  treated  with  a  cholinesterase  inhibitor 
may still have residual block in the recovery room. Residual block has been reported to occur in 16-
64% of patients after single intubating dose of an intermediate-acting non-depolarizing neuromuscular 
blocking  agent.  Furthermore,  the  safety  profile  of  currently  available  reversal  agents  are  rather 
unfavourable as cholinesterase inhibitors are associated with a relatively high incidence of cholinergic 
side  effects,  including  bradycardia,  hypotension,  salivation,  bronchoconstriction  and  vomiting. 
Therefore  these  agents  are  routinely  used  in  combination  with  a  muscarinic  acetylcholine  receptor 
antagonist such atropine or glycopyrrolate to antagonize the muscarinic effects of acetylcholine in the 
autonomic  parasympathetic  neuroeffector  junctions  (e.g.,  heart).  Unfortunately  the  muscarinic 
acetylcholine receptor antagonist themselves may cause side effects such as tachycardia, dry mouth, 
blurred vision. 
Bridion  is  a  novel  compound  Org  25969  (sugammadex),  that  has  been  developed  for  reversal  of 
neuromuscular  block  induced  by  the  non-depolarizing  neuromuscular  blockers  rocuronium  and 
vecuronium. Org 25969 is a modified -cyclodextrin and its mode of action is based on the forming of 
1:1  inclusion  complexes  with  rocuronium  or  vecuronium.  Upon  intravenous  injection  complex 
formation  reduces  the  amount  of  free  neuromuscular  blocking  agent,  leading  to  a  fast  reversal  of 
neuromuscular  block.  It  represents  an  entirely  new  approach  in  the  management  of  reversal  of 
neuromuscular  blockade.  However,  sugammadex  does  not  reverse  neuromuscular  block  induced  by 
succinylcholine or benzylisoquinolium compounds.  
This unique mechanism of action distinguishes Bridion from the class of anticholinesterase inhibitor 
reversal  agents.  Furthermore,  select  NMBAs  (e.g.,  rocuronium)  have  been  shown  to  have  a  higher 
affinity  for  Bridion  than  for  the  nicotinic  receptor,  allowing  the  reversal  of  a  profound  NMB  to  be 
possible. The mechanism of action of Bridion does not result in stimulation of the cholinergic nervous 
system. There is no need for concomitant administration of antimuscarinic drugs. Furthermore, due to 
the  removal  of  the  muscle  relaxant  from  its  site  of  action,  Bridion  is  able  to  reverse  even  a  very 
profound NMB. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to:  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application 
The applicant submitted a complete and independent application according to Article 8.3 of Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended.  
5/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  indication  and  posology  proposed  by  the  applicant  for  Bridion  was  for  the:  Reversal  of 
neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium. 
The recommended clinical doses are 2 and 4 mg/kg for routine reversal and 16 mg/kg for immediate 
reversal of rocuronium. The 16 mg/kg dose is expected to be used in less than 1% of the treatments.  
For routine reversal: 
‘A  dose  of  4 mg/kg  sugammadex  is  recommended  if  recovery  has  reached  at  least  1-2  post-tetanic 
counts (PTC) following rocuronium or vecuronium induced blockade. Median time to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 is around 3 minutes. 
A dose of 2 mg/kg sugammadex is recommended, if spontaneous recovery has occurred up to at least 
the  reappearance  of  T2  following  rocuronium  or  vecuronium  induced  blockade.  Median  time  to 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 is around 2 minutes.’ 
For immediate reversal: 
‘If there is a clinical need for immediate reversal following administration of rocuronium a dose of 
16 mg/kg sugammadex is recommended. When 16 mg/kg sugammadex is administered 3 minutes after 
a bolus dose of 1.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide, a median time to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 of 
approximately 1.5 minutes can be expected. 
There is no data to recommend the use of sugammadex for immediate reversal following vecuronium 
induced blockade.’ 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Bridion is a sterile solution for intravenous injection, which is presented as 2ml and 5 ml single dose 
vials containing 100 mg/ml (as sodium salt) of sugammadex as active substance. 
Excipients are water for injections, hydrochloric acid  (for pH adjustment), or sodium hydroxide (for 
pH adjustment). 
The primary packaging consists in type I glass vials closed with chlorobutyl rubber stoppers held in 
position with aluminium crimp-caps with flip-off seals. 
Active Substance 
Sugammadex  sodium  is  a  modified  -cyclodextrin,  which  contains  8  recurring  glucose  units 
each  with  5  asymmetric  carbon  atoms,  in  total  40  asymmetric  carbon  atoms  for  the  whole 
molecule,  the  original  configuration  of  all  asymmetric  carbon  atoms  is  preserved  during  the 
manufacturing process.  
The  active  substance  is  a  white  to  off-white  octa-sodium  salt  powder  which  is  highly  but 
reversibly  hygroscopic,  freely  soluble  in  water,  and  very  slightly-  to  slightly  soluble  in  polar 
organic solvents.   
The substance shows polymorphism but this is judged to be of no significance for this product. 
  Manufacture 
Sugamadex is manufactured from -cyclodextrin in two chemical reaction steps.  
The  synthesis  is  complicated  by  the  fact  that  it  requires  the  complete  conversion  of  eight  identical 
functional groups per molecule, giving rise to high levels of impurities. Most of these impurities are 
structurally related γ-cyclodextrins and have physico-chemical characteristics and molecular weights 
comparable to  that  of  the  active  substance. This  explains  why  the  structurally  related  impurities  are 
6/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difficult  to  fully  identify  and  to  remove  from  the  active  substance.    Major  impurities  that  are 
structurally  related  to  -cyclodextrin  were  demonstrated  to  have  a  comparable  pharmacological  and 
toxicological profile to that of sugammadex. 
Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  synthesis  of  the  active  substance.  Control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have been presented. 
Batch analysis data of three batches from the manufacturer are presented and confirm consistency and 
uniformity of the manufacturing process. 
  Specification 
The  active  substance  specifications  for  sugammadex  are  relevant  for  a  substance  to  be  used  in 
intravenous  injection  as  a  route  of  administration  and  include  tests  for  appearance,  colour,  visible 
impurities,  identification  (HPLC,  IR,  ICP-AES),  assay  (HPLC,  ICP-AES),  impurities  (HPLC,  ICP-
AES), residual solvents (GC), water content (Ph Eur), total aerobic microbial count (Ph Eur), bacterial 
endotoxins (Ph Eur). 
Batch analysis data of the active substance are provided. The results are within the specifications and 
consistent from batch to batch.  
  Stability 
The primary study made according the ICH stability guideline includes threebatches stored in double 
LDPE bags in HDPE containers and the real time results are to 24 months. The study at intermediary 
conditions  is  completed  to  12  months  and  that  in  accelerated  conditions  to  6  months.  The  results 
indicate  good  stability  according  the  parameters  studied  (appearance,  colour,  testing  for  assay  and 
organic impurities, residual ethanol, water content, total aerobic count and endotoxins).  Appropriate 
light  sensitivity  and  forced  degradation  studies  was  also  made.  The  solid  active  substance  is  not 
sensitive to light, but quite sensitive to oxidative stress.  
The stability results justify the proposed retest period for the active substance.  
Medicinal Product 
  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  formulation  development  has  been  described  and  the  differences  in  the  composition  of  the 
formulations used in the clinical studies have been adequately explained. No overage is used for the 
manufacture of the solution, but overfill will be used, the target fill volume is slightly higher than the 
extractable volume. The extractable volume is determined according to Ph.Eur.  
All excipients used in the finished product are of pharmacopoeial quality. Sodium hydroxide, sodium 
chloride, water for injections and nitrogen comply with the requirements of their respective Ph. Eur. 
monographs. 
No  excipients  are  of  human  or  animal  origin  and  there  is  thus  no  TSE  risk  associated  with  the 
manufacture of the finished product. 
The finished product is filled into glass vials and closed with a rubber stopper and a flip-off aluminium 
cap. The glass of the vials is of type I and in compliance with the physical and chemical requirements 
of Ph. Eur. The stoppers are composed of latex free chlorobutyl rubber. The stopper material meets the 
physical requirements for elastomeric closures for injection preparations of Ph. Eur 
  Manufacture of the Product 
7/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process includes preparation of the bulk solution, filtration, filling in the vials and 
terminal sterilization. 
Validation  studies  have  been  carried  out  on  the  sterilisation/depyrogenation  of  the  vials  and  steam 
sterilisation  of  stoppers,  filters  and  aseptic  equipment  in  three  production-scale  batches  and  is 
satisfactory. The in process controls are adequate for this pharmaceutical form. 
  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  appearance,  colour,  identification 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), extractable volume (Ph Eur), pH (Ph Eur), osmolality (Ph 
Eur), clarity (Ph Eur), visible particles (Ph Eur), particulate matter (Ph Eur), bacterial endotoxins (Ph 
Eur), sterility (Ph Eur). 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies 
  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies according to ICH guidance have been performed on primary and supportive stability 
batches.  The  batches  reported  can  all  be  considered  as  pilot-scale  batches.  18  months  of  long  term 
stability data were provided for the primary batches and 36 months of data for the supportive batches. 
The  finished  product  has  been  studied  at  ICH  storage  conditions  5°C/amb.  RH,  25°C/60%RH  and 
40°C/75%RH as well as in the intermediate conditions 30°C/40%RH and 30°C/75%RH. Results from 
an ICH photostability study have been submitted and a leaching and container closure integrity study 
was also conducted. Statistical evaluation of the stability data has been performed for the assay and 
degradation products in order to support the proposed shelf-life. 
As  a  conclusion  from  the  stability  studies,  the  results  indicate  satisfactory  stability  and  support  the 
shelf life and conditions stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Org 25969 is a modified γ-cyclodextrin and a novel Selective Relaxant Binding Agent (SRBA); non-
clinical data have shown that this compound can reverse a profound aminosteroid-induced NMB. 
Pharmacology 
  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The  pharmacodynamics  of  sugammadex  and  sugammadex-related  cyclodextrins  (CDs)  have  been 
examined  using  physicochemical  techniques  (isothermal  titration  microcalorimetry), 
in  vitro 
techniques  (tissue  bath  studies),  in  vivo  methods  (muscle  contraction  in  anaesthetized  animals)  and 
side effect profile studies. These studies have shown that Org 25959 is a potent and effective agent for 
the  reversal  of  neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by  the  steroidal  neuromuscular  blocking  agents 
(NMBA)  rocuronium,  vecuronium  and  pipecuronium,  but  is  almost  ineffective  against  non-steroidal 
neuromuscular blocking agents  succinylcholine, atracurium, cis-atracurium and mivacurium.  
The sugammadex-related cyclodextrins, which are formed during the synthesis process, also show a 
similar  affinity  for  the  steroidal  neuromuscular  blocking  agents.  Administration  of  sugammadex  or 
8/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Org 259569-related cyclodextrins causes rapid reversal of neuromuscular blockade in  in vitro and in 
vivo experiments.  
  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Due to its mechanism of action, sugammadex has also the potential to bind to other molecules (drugs 
or endogenous molecules). Isothermal microcalorimetry screening of a large number of molecules has 
been performed. This included drugs commonly used in anaesthesia, drugs most commonly prescribed 
and molecules (both steroidal and non-steroidal) acting on steroidal receptors.  
Although  sugammadex  has  not  been  screened  for  in  vitro  radioligand  receptor assays  for  secondary 
pharmacological  activity,  other  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  assessments  have  been  made  to  investigate 
potential  off-target  effects.  None  of  these  studies  revealed  potential  effects  related  to  secondary 
activity  of  this  drug.  It  can  be  concluded therefore that  sugammadex  does  not cause any  significant 
pharmacological  effect  in  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  preparations.  This  appears  to  be  in  agreement  with 
results obtained with other cyclodextrin derivatives.  
  Safety pharmacology programme 
Non-clinical safety pharmacology experiments demonstrate a low risk of secondary pharmacological 
effects on the vital organ systems such as the central nervous, cardiovascular and respiratory system. 
In  these  studies,  in  general,  dose  levels  and  exposures  were  used  that  exceeded  the  normal  clinical 
range. 
  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
An  in  vitro  model  (mouse  hemi-diaphragm)  has  been  developed  to  study  the  relationship  between 
microcalorimetric affinity and in vitro effect. Two types of interaction can be expected: 
 
 
a  molecule  can  interfere  with  the  interaction  between  sugammadex  and  the  steroidal 
neuromuscular blocking agent, and by displacement increase the effect of the NMBA on the 
neuromuscular junction. 
a molecule can be encapsulated by sugammadex, thereby reducing the biological effect of that 
molecule. 
Interactions  can  only  be  expected  when  the  affinity  of  a  molecule  for  sugammadex  is  high  and  the 
non- protein bound concentration of this molecule is high. After screening more than 300 compounds 
using isothermal microcalorimetry, only a few drugs could be identified with a potential interaction: 
flucloxacillin,  fusidic  acid,  toremifene  and  hormonal  contraceptives.  However,  this  analysis  did  not 
take into account that many drugs show a very high affinity to carrier proteins, e.g. steroid-hormone-
binding globulin. The underlying mechanism for interactions with these compounds is not clear.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Most of the non-clinical kinetic data of sugammadex have been collected in conjunction with toxicity 
or  pharmacology  studies  in  the  various  non-clinical  species  i.e.  rat,  guinea  pig,  rabbit,  dog  and  cat. 
Levels  of  sugammadex  were  determined  using  validated  HPLC-MS  assays  except  for  Org  9426  in 
plasma and urine in a guinea pig pharmacology experiment where an LC-MS/MS method (not GLP 
validated) was used.  
Upon i.v. administration sugammadex rapidly distributes in the extracellular water compartment..  In 
all  species  studied,  the  systemic  exposure  (AUC  and  C0  or  Cmax)  generally  increased  linearly  with 
dose, and no significant differences between the genders were observed. Clearance is predominantly 
renal,  at  a  rate  approximating  the  GFR.  In  the  plasma  and  urine  HPLC  radiochromatograms  no 
qualitative inter-species differences were observed between rat, dog, and man.  
9/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
48.7 
48.1 
Rat 
30 mgkg-1 
F 
M 
Rabbit 
20 mgkg-1 
F 
M 
The main PK parameters in different species are presented in the table below. 
Dog 
Species 
25 mgkg-1 
Dose 
Gender 
F 
M 
AUC0-inf  
(µg·h·mL-1) 
NAUCinf  
(µg·h·mL-1)/(mg·kg-1) 
C0  
(µg·mL-1) 
NC0 
(µg·mL-1)/( mg·kg-1) 
t1/2 (h) 
CL (L·kg-1·h-1) 
V (L·kg-1) 
0.65 
0.20 
0.19 
0.6 
0.62 
0.5 
0.9 
0.19 
0.25 
0.4 
0.40 
0.3 
n.d. 
n.d. 
n.d. 
100.5 
6.85 
5.02 
4.84 
1.60 
5.17 
1.62 
7.99 
9.73 
137 
145 
252 
134 
n.d. 
240 
n.d. 
n.d. 
n.d. 
9.00 
0.9 
0.21 
0.26 
4.91 
127 
232 
Man 
4 mgkg-1 
F 
M 
40 
10 
50 
40 
10 
50 
12.5 
12.5 
2 
0.10 
0.18 
2 
0.10 
0.18 
The metabolism of sugammadex plays no major role in the clearance. The metabolism and interaction 
especially  between  Cyp  450  enzymes  and  sugammadex,  related  cyclodextrins  or  impurities  was 
further clarified by the Applicant and the possibility of sugammadex, related cyclodextrins (CDs) or 
impurities  to  cause  drug-drug  interaction  based  on  induction  or  inhibition  of  drug  metabolizing 
enzymes was considered to be remote. 
The binding of  sugammadex  to mineralized tissues such as bone and teeth occurs. The extracellular 
mineral hydroxy apatite could be the binding site, but the binding is reversible. As the sites of bone 
and teeth growth and remodelling are the preferred sites for disposition, juvenile rats show a higher 
extent  of  incorporation  as  compared  to  adult  or  old  rats.  Furthermore,  the  presence  of  rocuronium 
significantly  diminished  the  binding  of  sugammadex  to  the  mineralized  tissues  in  the  rat.  Neonatal 
exposure to sugammadex via the oral route is assessed to be low. 
Toxicology 
  Single dose toxicity 
Sugammadex was of low acute toxicity following single i.v. administration in the mouse and rat with 
maximum non-lethal doses at or above 2000 mg/kg. At this dose only mild and very transient clinical 
signs such as staggered gait were observed, which are most likely associated with the injection of a 
large volume.  
In the acute toxicity studies in the cat and dog, sugammadex was dosed in 3 subdoses of 0.92 or 9.2 
mg.kg-1  in  the  absence  or  presence  of  a  preceding  dose  of  rocuronium.  Under  these  conditions  no 
adverse effects were noted in in-life and terminal parameters. In addition, sugammadex administration 
alone or combined with rocuronium administration was of low acute toxicity in anaesthetised dogs and 
cats with maximum non-lethal doses at or above 30 mg/kg.  
Sugammadex  shows  retention  in  rat  bone  with  a  terminal  half-life  in  the  range  of  70-250  days. 
Because  of  the  observed  retention  and  long  half  lives  in  bone  tissue  an  investigative  study  was 
conducted in young adult rats following a single i.v. injection of sugammadex at 2000 mg/kg in order 
to assess possible effects on bone quality, structure, and turn over. Experimental parameters included 
morbidity, mortality, body weight, analysis of biochemical bone turnover markers in blood and urine, 
measurement  of femur  length  and  diameter, assessment  of  bone  mineral  density  and  architecture  by 
micro computed tomography (μCT), colour determination of teeth (lower incisors) and bone strength 
analysis. The observed decrease in trabecular numbers, the related increased trabecular distance, and 
the  decreased  strength  of  trabecular  bone  when  tested  in  the  trabecular  bone  indentation  test  might 
suggest  a  slight  resorptive  effect  on  the  femur  trabecular  bone  compartment.  However,  the 
10/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biochemical bone turnover parameters (DPD, CTx, osteocalcin and ALP) are not fully in line with the 
possible  suggestion  of  a  resorptive  effect.  No  significant  differences  were  observed  on  femur 
dimensions,  cortical  bone  μCT  parameters  and  the  strength  assessments  in  the  3-point  bending  of 
femur  and  femur  neck  cantilever  test  (with  the  exception  of  a  minimal  effect  on  3-point  bending 
stiffness).  The  observed  effects  were  limited  and  most  of  the  effects  were  reversed  42  days  after 
treatment. Consequently, a wide safety margin is present for potential effects on bone. 
The possible slight resorptive effect was explained by the ability of sugammadex to cause a brief surge 
in plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) as revealed in a single dose study where effects on PTH levels 
in serum and urinary calcium excretion were studied in the rat (females only). It was concluded that 
sugammadex  was  able  to  induce  a  very  transient  PTH  surge  which  was  probably  associated  with  a 
slight increase in total serum Ca2+. This surge is a normal physiological feedback loop response to a 
temporary  slight  decrease  of  plasma  calcium  level  following  the  peak  exposure  after  i.v. 
administration  of  sugammadex.  The  mild  resorptive  effect  observed  in  femur  trabecular  bone  is 
considered  a  natural  response  to  a  very  transient  plasma  calcium  decrease  resulting  in  mobilisation 
from the physiological calcium reserve in trabecular bone and is not considered as adverse.  
  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
From  the  2-  and  4-week  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  with  sugammadex  in  dog  the  NOAEL  upon 
repeated dosing for up to 4 weeks is 250 mg.kg-1.  
In  the  2  and  4-week  i.v.  toxicity  studies  with  sugammadex  in  rat  the  NOEL  is  determined  by 
microscopic changes in the urinary system. In the kidney cortical tubular cells reabsorption vacuoles 
are induced (graded as minimal to occasionally moderate) and the urinary bladder foamy cytoplasm is 
noted in the umbrella cells (upper layer of the urothelium) after repeated dosing at 120 and 500 mg.kg-
1.day-1. Both effects are considered to be very mild to mild, as they are not associated with effects on 
clinical pathology markers of renal or urinary bladder damage in plasma and urine. These effects were 
probably  a  result  of  the  extensive  urinary  excretion  and  high  concentrations  of  sugammadex  in  the 
urine. The NOEL of 500 mg/kg/day in the rat and 250 mg/kg/day (i.e. NOAEL) in the dog as proposed 
by the Applicant is considered to be acceptable. Exposure margins to the clinical exposure at 16 mg/kg 
are 6.2 and 6.4, respectively, and at 4 mg/kg, 23.8 and 24.7, respectively.  
Minimal to slight effects on body weight gain, food consumption and RBC parameters indicate (very) 
slight toxicity at the highest dose level in the repeated dose toxicity studies in rats. 
Cardiovascular  safety  of  sugammadex  has  been  sufficiently  studied.  Sugammadex  has  a  low  risk  of 
inducting  a  disturbance  in  cardiac  conductance  and  in  particular  on  QT  interval  duration  under  the 
intended conditions of use. However significant prolongations in the QT interval in Phase 1-3 studies 
have been noted (see section on Clinical aspects). 
Despite the binding of sugammadex to bone and teeth, in the various non-clinical rat models studied 
no adverse effect on bone quality, structure and turnover are observed. Moreover, no adverse effects 
on bone growth, modelling and remodelling have been noted other than those related to the slight non-
specific toxicity resulting in a mild degree of growth retardation in juvenile rats upon repeated dosing 
at the high dose levels. Consequently, a wide safety margin is present for potential effects on bone. 
  Genotoxicity 
Sugammadex  has  been  tested  for  mutagenicity  and  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro,  and  for 
chromosomal aberrations in vivo at a single i.v. dose of 1774 mg/kg in the mouse and at repeated i.v. 
dosing of 500 mg/kg/day in the rat. Exposure margins to the clinical exposure at 16 mg/kg and at 4 
mg/kg are 6.2 and 23.8, respectively.  
The  related  cyclodextrines,  also  contributing  to  the  pharmacological  activity,  have  been  tested  for 
mutagenicity  and  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro,  and  for  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vivo  at 
repeated i.v. dosing of 30 mg/kg/day. A structural alert for the impurity Org 48301 was identified by 
the  Applicant,  using  DEREK.  However,  no  genotoxic  potential  was  identified  for  Org  48301  in  the 
11/59 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Ame's test or in human peripheral lymphocytes.  In conclusion, no genotoxic potential was identified 
for sugammadex or its related impurities.     
  Carcinogenicity 
The lack of carcinogenicity studies for sugammadex is accepted since long-term use is not indicated 
and there are no indications of a genotoxic potential.   
  Reproduction Toxicity 
Male  and  female  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development  was  studied  in  the  rat.  Embryo-fetal 
development  was  studied  in  the  rat  and  the  rabbit.  Pre-and  postnatal  developmental  studies  were 
performed in the rat.  
The  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development  study  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  revealed  that  the 
NOAEL of sugammadex for effects on fertility, and early embryonic development exceeds 500mg.kg-
1.day-1. In addition, histopathological examination of the male and female reproductive organs in the 4-
week rat and dog toxicity studies did not reveal any adverse effects on fertility. Sugammadex induce 
no reproductive toxic effects.  
Based on juvenile rat toxicity studies, the risk for adverse effects on bone growth and development in 
the paediatric population is considered to be low. The non-clinical observation of incisor discoloration 
and disturbance of amelogenesis in the juvenile rat revealed a hazard of developmental toxicity to the 
teeth in the paediatric population. However, the large safety margin indicates that the risk for such an 
effect  in  the  paediatric  population  is  low  given  the  conditions  of  clinical  use  (single  dose  and  in 
conjunction with an aminosteroidal NMBA). 
  Local tolerance  
The  rabbit  is  the  preferred  species  for  studying  local  tolerability  as  it  is  reported  to  be  the  most 
sensitive  species  to  local  effects.  The  macroscopic  observation  of  a  ‘reddish  area’  is  considered  to 
reflect  injection  trauma.  Because  of  the  microscopic  observations  at  the  site  of  injection,  it  was 
considered appropriate to look at the incidence and severity of the findings at a microscopic level. It is 
concluded  that  even  though  a  drug-related  effect  cannot  be  formally  excluded,  the  mild  nature 
indicates that the sugammadex is tolerated upon accidental intramuscular injection.  
In the intended intravenous route good tolerability is observed. It can be concluded that sugammadex 
is tolerable and that the mild effects observed in muscle are of low relevance to the human situation. In 
general,  there  were  no  major  findings  in  the  local  tolerance  studies  which  might  indicate  adverse 
effects of intravenous administration. 
  Other toxicity studies 
The  exposure  of  human  blood  to  sugammadex  in  the  absence  or  presence  of  rocuronium  caused  no 
haemolysis and did not affect osmotic red blood cell fragility. 
Photosafety studies were not performed. Low concentrations of sugammadex were detected in the eyes 
and skin of both albino and pigmented rats to a similar extent, however no specific affinity for melanin 
is anticipated. The UV spectra of sugammadex exhibits end absorption at about 200 nm, thus the lack 
of photosafety studies are justified. 
The presence of impurities and degradation products did not induce any additional effects in the rat 
following  2  or  4  weeks  repeated  i.v.  dosing  other  than  those  already  known  from  sugammadex  and 
other  cyclodextrins.  Only  mild  effects  on  body  weight  gain  and  food  consumption  was  observed. 
Histopathological findings were limited to slightly increased numbers of foamy alveolar macrophages 
in  the  lung,  vacuolation  of  cortical  tubular  cells  in  the  kidneys,  and  foamy  cytoplasm  of  the 
urothelium.  These  findings  were  not  accompanied  with  clinical  chemistry  or  urinalysis  changes,  or 
progressive  pathology.  It  can  be  concluded  that  the  specified  impurities  in  drug  substance  and  drug 
product are toxicologically qualified.   
12/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  presence  of  the  different  levels  of  impurities  in  the  different  batches  of  sugammadex,  or  the 
degraded drug product did not induce deaths or additional signs of toxicity compared to sugammadex 
following single i.v. dosing. Minimally increased number of foamy alveolar macrophages in the lungs 
with  complete  recovery  was  observed  at  600  mg/kg  (degraded  sugammadex)  and  at  2000  mg/kg 
(degraded  and  non-degraded  sugammadex).  Minimal  to  slight  vacuolation  of  the  corticular  tubular 
epithelium  in  the  kidneys  with  partial  recovery  was  also  observed  at  600  mg/kg  (degraded 
sugammadex) and at 2000 mg/kg (degraded and non-degraded sugammadex). 
Sugammadex  is  able  to  slightly  stimulate  the  immune  system  when  administered  subcutaneously  in 
the  footpad  at  the  highest  dose  level.  A  slight  increase  in  white  blood  cell,  WTC  count  and  slight 
increase  in  haematocrit  in  high  dose  males  could  also  slightly  refer  to  the  disturbance  of  immune 
system.    sugammadex  in  the  absence  or  presence  of  rocuronium,  induced  haemolysis  or  increased 
RBC  fragility  at  concentrations  around  6  to  7  mg/mL.  Sugammadex  did  not  show  any 
immunosuppressive,  immunostimulatory,  or  dermal  sensitizing  effects  in  rats  or  mice  in  the  Plaque 
Forming Cell Assay, Poplietal Lymph Node Assay, and Local Lymph Node Assay.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An ERA in accordance with Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products 
for Human Use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) was provided comprising of Phase I, Phase II Tier A, 
and Phase II Tier B consisting of a number of GLP compliant fate and effects studies.  
Following  the  response  to  the  CHMP  list  of  questions  (LoQ),  the  ERA  was  not  considered  to  be 
complete  and  a  number  of  issues  such  as  an  additional  Daphnia  magna  reproduction  study  (in 
accordance with OECD 211), elaboration of the need for an ERA for the terrestrial compartment, and 
an  updated  Phase  II,  Tier  B  ERA  including  an  updated  PEC  sediment  calculation  needed  to  be 
addressed. As a follow-up, the applicant has committed to provide new ERA study protocols and the 
results, as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
Organon  claims  that  all  studies  were  undertaken  in  accordance  with  Organon’s  standard  operating 
procedures, which comply with the principles of Good Clinical Practice. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics (PK) 
Sugammadex  (Org  25969)  100  mg/ml  solution  for  injection  is  filled  in  2  ml  or  5  ml  glass  vials. 
Besides  sugammadex  the  formulation  contains  a  related  cyclodextrin  that  is  structurally  related  to 
sugammadex.  
The clinical  studies  have  been  performed  using  100 mg/ml  solution  except  in  four  early  stage  trials 
where 25 mg/ml strength has been used. In the lower strength formulation sodium chloride has been 
used as tonicity adjuster. The 100 mg/ml strength is a hypertonic solution where no tonicity adjuster is 
needed.  The  results  from  these  studies  are  considered  supportive  and  the  recommendations  for 
labelling are not based on these trials. Besides the strength, pH also has been changed from 7.0 in the 
early clinical development to 7.5 on the later trials. The pH change is unlikely to affect the efficacy 
and safety of the product.  
The assays that were used for measurement of sugammadex concentrations were validated and found 
to have appropriate sensitivity.  
PK of sugammadex was studied in 15 clinical trials in healthy subjects, patients intended for surgery 
and  in  special  populations.  Sugammadex  was  administered  after  the  neuromuscular  blocking  agents 
13/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rocuronium  (0.6  or  1.2  mg/kg)  or  vecuronium  (0.1  mg/kg),  and  the  concentrations  of  sugammadex 
were analysed from plasma and urine samples. 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  sugammadex  were  calculated  from  the  plasma  concentration  by 
non-compartmental  methods  or  using  population  PK  modelling.  Population  PK/PD  modelling  has 
been developed to simulate situations not investigated in clinical trials. 
The  PK  of  sugammadex  is  considered  to  be  linear  at  the  therapeutic  dose  range  and  concentrations 
increase dose-proportionally with the dose. Sugammadex is eliminated fast, the half-life being ranging 
from  66  to  260  minutes,  and  clearance  between  97  and  138  ml/min,  which  are  close  to  glomerular 
filtration  rate.  The  drug  is  eliminated  into  urine  as  such.  Over  70  %  of  the  radioactive  dose  is 
recovered in urine as unchanged drug within 6 hours and over 96 % within 48 hours. Radioactivity is 
attributed  to  sugammadex  -  100  %  in  plasma  and  95  %  in  urine,  indicating  that  metabolism  of 
sugammadex is limited.  
Comparable PK parameters were observed between the studies. Clearance in anesthetized patients was 
slightly lower compared to non-anaesthetized subjects. 
In vitro studies were performed to determine the extent of binding of [14C]-sugammadex and [3H]-
rocuronium to human plasma proteins and human erythrocytes. Sugammadex did not bind to plasma 
proteins or to erythrocytes, irrespective of the concentration tested. In vitro binding of rocuronium was 
determined  in  the  absence  of  sugammadex  and  in  the  presence  of  increasing  concentrations  of 
sugammadex. The extent of binding of rocuronium to human plasma proteins declined with increasing 
concentration ratio of sugammadex/rocuronium. Rocuronium, alone or in combination with increasing 
concentrations  of  sugammadex,  did  not  bind  to  erythrocytes  of  human  blood.  Sugammadex  and 
rocuronium were efficiently removed from plasma by dialysis when using a high flux membrane.  
The  applicant  has  not  performed  plasma  protein  binding  or  erythrocyte  binding  studies  for 
vecuronium.  Nevertheless various citations regarding plasma protein binding in the literature have a 
given a fair impression on the extent of binding of vecuronium to plasma proteins and erythrocytes, 
which is low, that no clinically significant safety concerns are expected. 
The  population  PKPD  interaction  model,  including  PK  for  rocuronium  and  sugammadex,  the  PK 
interaction  (complex  binding)  between  rocuronium  and  sugammadex  and  the  PKPD  of  rocuronium 
(with  and  without  sugammadex),  with  respect  to  Train  of  Four  (TOF),  twitch  ratio  (T4/T1)  and  T2 
twitch  height,  was  developed  on  the  basis  of  data  from  healthy  volunteers  and  patients  undergoing 
surgical procedures during maintenance anaesthesia. The model development has been ambitious and 
great effort has been put into validating the models sufficiently, whereof the most important part is the 
prediction of data not used in model development (external validation). The further use of the model is 
for predictions of:  
i) the impact of impaired hepatic function,  
ii) the effect of capturing interactions,  
iii) the effect of displacement interactions,  
iv) PK and PD in typical paediatric, elderly or renally impaired subjects.  
The PK model for rocuronium was developed and updated on data from more than 200 patients. The 
model  appears  to  describe  and  predict  observations  adequately  apart  from  the  elderly,  where 
concentrations were under-predicted. The PK interaction part of the model was developed and updated 
on data from over 100 patients. The model predicts the total sugammadex concentrations adequately 
and rocuronium concentrations were predicted reasonably. With respect to the PKPD for rocuronium, 
the amount of data for model development and update has been limited (n=29). The updated model 
predicts time to recovery acceptably apart from the highest rocuronium dose (1.2 mg/kg) where time 
to  recovery  is  predicted  to  be  somewhat  shorter  than  observed.  The  full  PKPD  model  was  initially 
externally  validated  in  114  patients  with  adequate  results.  The  external  validation  of  the  updated 
model performed for 154 patients revealed acceptable predictions in general, but under-predictions of 
time to recovery were observed after doses of sugammadex, lower than those proposed to be used (2 
14/59 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg/kg and below). Thus, caution should be observed when the model is used for predictions following 
low sugammadex doses or at the highest rocuronium dose.  
Clarifications  were  requested  in  the  CHMP  LoQ  with  respect  to  the  model  development  and  the 
Applicant has updated and redeveloped parts of the PKPD interaction model. However, some issues 
were identified that may have impact on the predictions from the model, but by combining previous 
and present knowledge the model predictions are considered acceptable at present. The Applicant will 
update  the  model  in  the  future  when  more  paediatric  data  becomes  available,  however  it  is  not 
completely clear how this will be performed. Therefore, and in conjunction with the comments on the 
newly  developed  model,  it  is  advised  that  the  full  PKPD  interaction  model  should  be  updated  for 
future  predictions;  the  aim  being  to  develop  one  model  that  includes  predictions  for  as  many  sub-
populations as possible. The applicant has committed to present a plan for the update of the model as 
stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008.  
  Special populations 
PK of sugammadex has been investigated in some special populations. Studies have been performed in 
elderly (> 65 years, <80 years), in children and in patients with severe renal impairment.   
The race effect has been studied between Japanese and Caucasians and no significant race differences 
are  expected  between  Japanese  and  Caucasians.  Both  genders  have  been  included  in  the  studies. 
Although  limited  data  is  available,  it  seems  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  sugammadex  in  Black  or 
African Americans is similar to Caucasian subjects.  
Population  PK/PD  modelling  has  been  used  to  evaluate  the  PK  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment 
and  to  confirm  the  findings  in  children,  elderly  and  renal  impairment  patients.  The  modelling  is 
considered acceptable. 
Renal impairment 
Pharmacokinetic  data  collected  in  Phase  III  trials  are  available  for  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment (SRI) and elderly patients. No data are available in patients with mild or moderate renal 
impairment.  
In SRI, CL of sugammadex was dramatically decreased (16 times) in comparison with subjects with 
normal  renal  function.  When  sugammadex  was  administered  at  reappearance  of  T2  there  was  little 
effect  of  SRI  on  the  time  to  recovery.  Furthermore,  no  alarming  effect  of  SRI  was  predicted  when 
sugammadex 4 mg/kg was administered at 15 minutes after the rocuronium dose; possibly SRI  may 
result in prolongation of the recovery time by a few minutes compared to normal adults. The predicted 
effect on recovery times in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment was small. Thus, dose 
adjustments are not necessary in mild and moderate renal impairment but due to limited clinical data 
in  severe  renal  impairment,  treatment  is  not  recommended  in  this  sub-population.  This  has  been 
reflected in the SPC, Section 4.2. 
The applicant has demonstrated that sugammadex affects rocuronium PK by decreasing clearance and 
volume of distribution. However the pharmacokinetics of vecuronium in special populations such as 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment with concomitant treatment of sugammadex has not 
been clearly addressed, although it seems this will have no effect on efficacy, as the recovery times are 
unaffected regardless of age, sex, body weight, race and renal function.  
The applicant has committed to investigate the safety of sugammadex in severe renal impaired patients 
as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
Hepatic impairment 
No study has been performed in subjects with hepatic impairment since the main elimination pathway 
for  sugammadex  is  renal  excretion.  Instead,  simulations  of  the  recovery  time  were  performed  for 
patients with normal and impaired hepatic function, covering concomitant treatment of sugammadex 
and rocuronium. Model predictions indicated the possibility of prolonged time to recovery (by a few 
minutes) also in impaired hepatic function considering a worst case scenario, i.e. that sugammadex is 
15/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
affected  by  hepatic  impairment,  which  is  unlikely.  Limited  clinical  data  from  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment do not indicate that time to recovery is prolonged in those patients, however, there are no 
studies in patients with hepatic impairment and this has been reflected in the SPC, section 4.2.   
Furthermore,  in  the  perspective  that  severe  hepatic  impairment  may  result  in  that  other  drugs  being 
administered  concomitantly  are  not  being  cleared  as  in  the  normal  state,  there  may  be  a  risk  of 
unexpected drug interactions. Accordingly, sugammadex should be used with great caution in patients 
with severe hepatic impairment. A cautionary statement has been included in Section 4.2 of the SPC. 
The  pharmacokinetic  data  of  vecuronium  after  concomitant  administration  with  sugammadex  in 
patients  is  limited.  However  no  dose  adjustment  of  sugammadex  in  mild  to  moderate  patients  with 
hepatic impairment is suggested as vecuronium is eliminated to a lesser extent via liver compared to 
rocuronium and PK-PD modelling have demonstrated that there will be no need for dose adjustment of 
rocuronium after concomitant administration of sugammadex to these patients.  
  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  in  vivo.  The  applicant  has  used  PK-PD  modelling  to 
predict  the  possible  interactions  with  sugammadex.  The  possible  interactions  based  on  simulations 
have been addressed in the SPC.  
Since  the  mechanism  of  sugammadex  is  based  on  complex  binding,  there  is  a  risk  for  interactions: 
sugammadex  may  bind  to  other  molecules  and  reduce  their  effect  or  the  NMBA  may  be  displaced 
from  sugammadex  resulting  in  reduced  NMB  reversal  or  reoccurrence  of  NMB.  It  appears  that  the 
latter type of interactions is most important.  
The Applicant has developed a strategy to screen the interaction potential with other compounds. One 
major foundation of the strategy is assessment of the binding affinity to sugammadex estimated as KA 
determined by ITC. The other major basis for the strategy is predictions from the PK interaction and 
the PKPD interaction models. The approach was considered to be acceptable since it was not feasible 
to perform interactions with all drugs. The model predictions can be reasonably trusted with respect to 
capturing  interactions  despite  many  assumptions  in  the  model  predictions. The  applicant  claims  that 
for  capturing  interactions,  with  exceptions  of  the  potential  interaction  with  oral  contraceptives,  no 
clinical relevant interaction was expected. In support of this view the Applicant has provided details of 
anaesthetic  regimens  used  in  cases  where  anaesthetic  complications  during  treatment  with 
sugammadex  were  observed  and  no  indication  of  clinically  relevant  interactions  was  observed. 
Predictions  on  the  basis  of  the  PK-PD  interaction  model  have  also  been  performed  for  extreme 
scenarios with respect to displacement interactions, and the drugs that were identified with a risk for 
displacement  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  The  proposed  and  applied  interaction  strategy  will  be 
used to assess interactions with future drugs and this was considered to be an acceptable approach.  
Like sugammadex the structurally related cyclodextrin is also eliminated renally unchanged. Possible 
interactions between the structurally related cyclodextrin and other drugs have been discussed and its 
interaction potential is expected to be similar to sugammadex.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  in  general,  the  PK  studies  have  been  sufficiently  documented  and  the 
Applicant  has  addressed  the  concerns  of  the  LoQ  adequately.  A  plan  for  further  update  of  PK-PD 
model has been requested as a post-authorisation commitment. 
Pharmacodynamics 
  Mechanism of action 
The reversal of rocuronium or vecuronium induced NMB by sugammadex is based on its capability to 
form an inclusion complex with the NMBA. Upon complexation, the amount of NMBA available to 
bind to receptors in the neuromuscular junction is reduced, resulting in the reversal of the blockade. 
This  mechanism  of  action  of  encapsulation  is  illustrated  by  the  PK  data  of  rocuronium  and 
vecuronium.  An  increase  in  rocuronium  or  vecuronium  plasma  concentrations  was  seen  after 
16/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration of sugammadex as a result of redistribution of the NMBA due to complex formation 
with sugammadex. 
  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The sugammadex clinical pharmacology was studied in seven Phase 1 trials and twelve Phase 2 trials.  
Plasma concentration-time data and data on the efficacy of sugammadex in reversing rocuronium- and 
vecuronium-induced  NMB  were  collected  during  the  clinical  development  program  in  order  to 
develop and validate a population PK-PD modelling  describing the mechanism of complex formation 
between sugammadex and the NMBA. The first version of the model was developed using data from 
healthy  volunteers  and  from  ASA  Class  1  and  2  subjects  undergoing  surgery.  The  model  was  later 
updated  to  include  data  from  ASA  Class  1-3  subjects  undergoing  surgery.  The  model  describes  the 
depth of a NMB in response to the PK interaction between rocuronium and sugammadex. 
Based  on the  model,  after 4  mg.kg-1  of  sugammadex  administered 15  minutes after  0.6  mg.kg-1  of 
rocuronium, the typical adult with normal renal function and a body weight of 75 kg was predicted to 
have a recovery time of 1.5 min. The paediatric population was predicted to have approximately one 
minute  shorter  recovery  times  than  adults,  and  the  typical  elderly  subject  was  predicted  to  have  a 
slightly  longer  or  similar  recovery  time  as  the  typical  normal  adult.  Similar  predictions  were  made 
following the administration of  2 mg.kg-1 of sugammadex at the reappearance of T2.  
The changes in the APTT, PT (inr) and PT in the presence of sugammadex and Org 48302 in in vitro 
tests  suggest  interference  of  these  drugs  with  coagulation  cascade.    Several  possible  causes  for  the 
observed  changes  in  APTT,  PT(inr)  and  PT  have  been  investigated.  It  is  known  that  anionic 
cyclodextrin sulfates possess the ability to affect clotting assays and prolong APTT. It is presumed that 
these  sulfated cyclodextrins  are able  to  bind to  one or  more  components  of  the  coagulation cascade 
and cause inhibition of antithrombin III, factor Xa, and possibly other coagulation factors. This mode 
of  action resembles that  of  heparins and sulfated polysaccharides,  however  cyclodextrin sulfates  are 
much  less  potent.  From  the  non-clinical  safety  studies  there  is  no  impression  of  impaired  clotting 
(prolonged  bleeding  times  upon  toxicokinetic  sampling,  bruises,  microscopical  hemorrhages).  More 
importantly, no substantial difference in the adverse event profiles for the sugammadex and placebo 
group  for  bleeding  complications  has  been  observed  so  far.  As  a  follow-up,  in  study  19.4.115,  the 
applicant  has  committed  to  investigate  the  effects  of  sugammadex  on  coagulation  in  volunteers,  as 
stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. There will also be an in vitro part, in which 
several coagulation tests with different sugammadex concentrations will be tested.  
Clinical efficacy  
The pivotal efficacy and safety data are derived from the following placebo-controlled Phase II and III 
studies. In general, the design, conduct, analysis and reporting complied with the relevant guidelines. 
The clinical trials are presented in the following figure. 
17/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  clinical  trials  investigating  the  effect  of  Bridion,  neuromuscular  blockade  and  its  recovery  was 
measured by acceleromyography (AMG) a technique for recording evoked muscle responses, by using 
the  TOF-Watch®  SX  a  portable  acceleromyograph  (N.V.  Organon,  the  Netherlands).  This  device 
measures the magnitude of contraction of the adductor pollicis muscle in response to four twitches (T1, 
T2, T3 and T4) of electrical stimulation of the ulnar nerve. These four twitches are called the Train-Of-
Four (TOF). TOF stimulation consists of four supramaximal stimuli of the ulnar nerve (frequency 2 
Hz), which provoke 4 twitches of the thumb.  
  Dose response studies 
Altogether  866  subjects  were  exposed  in  Phase  2  trials,  and  821  subjects  were  exposed  in  Phase  3 
trials.  Most  subjects  received  either  a  2.0  mg.kg-1  dose  (n=606)  or  a  4.0  mg.kg-1  dose  (n=531)  -  the 
proposed marketed doses for routine reversal when administered at the reappearance of T2 or at 1-2 
PTCs,  respectively.  A  total  of  99  subjects  received  the  16.0  mg.kg-1  dose,  which  is  the  proposed 
marketed dose for immediate reversal at 3 minutes following rocuronium.  
Although the total number of patients in total is relatively high, only 99 patients received the higher 
doses,  which  are  effective  in  reversing  and  antagonising  a  very  intense  NMB,  and  furthermore  the 
higher doses were evaluated only in adult patients and not in any of the special patient groups 
Twelve clinical trials investigated the dose-response relation of sugammadex administered as reversal 
agent  at  various  time  points  after  administration  of  various  doses  of  rocuronium  or  vecuronium, 
representing  different  depths  of  NMB.  Of  the  twelve  trials,  four  were  prospective  bridging  trials  in 
Japanese  and  Caucasian  subjects  (19.4.208A,  19.4.208B,  19.4.209A  and  19.4.209B)  and  one  was  a 
Phase 3 trial in paediatric and adult subjects (19.4.306). The trials are grouped below according to the 
proposed indication. 
Studies supporting the dosing in proposed indication: routine reversal at the reappearance of T2 
after rocuronium and vecuronium 
Six  Phase  2  trials  (Trials  19.4.201,  19.4.203,  19.4.207,  19.4.208A,  19.4.208B,  and  19.4.306) 
investigated the efficacy of sugammadex in reversing a rocuronium-induced NMB at the reappearance 
of T2.  
Based  on the  calculation  of  tolerance  intervals,  it  was  expected  with  97.5%  confidence that  90%  of 
subjects  will  recover  to  a  T4/T1  ratio  of  0.9  within  3  minutes  following  a  2.0  mg.kg-1  dose  of 
18/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sugammadex when administered at the reappearance of T2 following a rocuronium-induced NMB. The 
choice of this dose was considered to be appropriate regardless of the anaesthetic used (i.e., propofol 
or  sevoflurane;  Trials  19.4.208A,  208B,  and  210),  although  sevoflurane  appears  to  prolong 
spontaneous recovery or recovery following sub-optimal doses of sugammadex, but does not have a 
clinically relevant effect on the efficacy of 2.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex.  
Three  Phase  2  trials  (Trials  19.4.207,  19.4.208A  and  19.4.208B)  investigated  the  efficacy  of 
sugammadex in reversing a vecuronium-induced NMB at the reappearance of T2.  
Pooled results from these trials showed that with a 2.0 mg.kg-1 dose of sugammadex recovery of the 
T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  occurs  within  2.8 minutes.  Doubling  the  dose  to  4.0  mg.kg-1  resulted  in 
approximately a 30-second reduction in the mean recovery time.  
Based  on the  calculation  of  tolerance  intervals,  it  was  expected  with  97.5%  confidence that  90%  of 
subjects  will  recover  to  a  T4/T1  ratio  of  0.9  within  5.9  minutes  following  a  2.0  mg.kg-1  dose  of 
sugammadex when administered at the reappearance of T2 following a vecuronium-induced NMB. 
Studies  supporting  the  dosing  in  proposed  indication:  routine  reversal  at  1-2  PTCs  and  at  15 
minutes after rocuronium and vecuronium 
Five  Phase  2  trials  (Trials  19.4.202,  19.4.204,  19.4.206,  19.4.209A  and  19.4.209B)  investigated  the 
efficacy  of  sugammadex  in  reversing  a  rocuronium-induced  NMB  at  1-2  PTCs  and  at  15  minutes 
following the administration of an intubating dose of rocuronium of 0.6 mg.kg-1.  
Pooled results from these trials showed a relationship between the dose of sugammadex and recovery 
of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. The mean recovery time decreased from 36 minutes following placebo to 1.8 
minutes  following  a  dose  of  4.0  mg.kg-1  of  sugammadex.  Tolerance  intervals  calculations  indicated 
that  with  97.5%  confidence  90%  of  subjects  will  recover  to  a  T4/T1  ratio  of  0.9  within  3.9  minutes 
following a 4.0 mg.kg-1 dose of sugammadex when administered at 1-2 PTCs or 15 minutes following 
a rocuronium-induced NMB.  
Two  Phase  2  trials  (Trials  19.4.209  a  and  b)  investigated  the  efficacy  of  sugammadex  in  reversing 
vecuronium-induced NMB at 1-2 PTCs.  
Pooled results from these trials showed a relationship between the dose of sugammadex and recovery 
of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. The mean recovery time with a dose of 4.0 mg.kg-1 was 3.2 minutes. Doubling 
the dose of sugammadex to 8.0 mg.kg-1 resulted in an approximate one-minute reduction in the mean 
recovery time. Taking into account the fact that only one dosing recommendation is ideal for the use 
of a reversal agent in a given anaesthesia setting (in this case, reversing a profound block), 4.0 mg.kg-1 
was chosen for investigation in the Phase 3 program, also for reversing vecuronium-induced NMB at 
1-2 PTCs. 
Studies  supporting  the  dosing  in  proposed  indication:  immediate  reversal  of  a  rocuronium 
induced NMB 
Two  Phase  2  trials  (Trials  19.4.205  and  19.4.206)  investigated  the  efficacy  of  sugammadex  in 
immediate reversal of rocuronium-induced NMB.  
Pooled results from these trials showed a relationship between the dose of sugammadex and recovery 
of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. The mean recovery time decreased from 123 minutes following placebo (i.e., 
spontaneous recovery) to 1.8 minutes following a dose of 12.0 mg.kg-1 and 1.6  minutes following a 
dose  of  16.0  mg.kg-1.  Given  the  urgency  of  needing  to  immediately  reverse  a  NMB  (in  a  cannot-
intubate-cannot-ventilate setting), the higher dose of 16.0 mg.kg-1 was chosen for investigation in the 
Phase 3 program.  
No trials were conducted to investigate the efficacy of sugammadex in immediate reversal situations 
following a vecuronium-induced NMB. 
19/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Main studies  
The primary efficacy endpoint was time from start of administration of investigational product (IP) to 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio of 0.9. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were in general similar in the pivotal 
trials. It has been addressed by the Applicant that blinding for efficacy was not possible in these trials, 
since the results were available at the measuring device directly and rapid reversal was apparent to the 
people in the operating room by looking at the patient. Therefore all trials were safety-assessor blinded 
for the subjective safety assessments.  
The efficacy of sugammadex in the three proposed indications, routine reversal at the reappearance of 
T2, routine reversal at 1-2 PTCs, and immediate reversal 3 minutes following an intubating dose of 
rocuronium was evaluated in 4 pivotal Phase 3 trials:  
Studies  supporting  the  proposed  indication:  Routine  reversal  at  the  reappearance  of  T2  after 
rocuronium and vecuronium 
  Trial 19.4.301 compared sugammadex with neostigmine. 
  Trial 19.4.310 compared rocuronium and sugammadex with cisatracurium and neostigmine. 
Study supporting the proposed indication: Routine reversal at 1-2 PTCs after rocuronium and 
vecuronium 
  Trial 19.4.302 compared sugammadex with neostigmine 
Study supporting the proposed indication: immediate reversal of a rocuronium induced NMB 
  Trial  19.4.303  compared  reversal  of  a  NMB  induced  by  1.2  mg.kg-1  rocuronium  with  16 
mg.kg-1  sugammadex  (administered  at  3  minutes  following  rocuronium)  versus  spontaneous 
recovery from 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. 
Studies  supporting  the  proposed  indication:  Routine  reversal  at  the  reappearance  of  T2  after 
rocuronium and vecuronium 
  Trial 19.4.301 compared sugammadex with neostigmine. 
20/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
See table above. 
Treatments 
Subjects were to receive rocuronium or vecuronium in randomized order with single and maintenance 
(if  applicable)  dosing  according  to  local  treatment  practice.  After  the  last  dose  of  rocuronium  or 
vecuronium,  at  reappearance  of  T2,  2.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  or  50  μg.kg-1  neostigmine  was  to  be 
administered  in  randomized  order.  All  patients  received  propofol,  sevoflurane  and  some  opioid 
analgesic.  At  the  time  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine,  the  recommended 
concentration of sevoflurane was to be < 1.5 MAC. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  faster  recovery  from  a  neuromuscular  block  induced  by 
vecuronium or rocuronium after reversal at reappearance of T2 by 2.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex compared 
to 50 μg.kg-1 neostigmine.  
The secondary objective was to evaluate the safety of a single dose of 2.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex and 
50 μg.kg-1 neostigmine administered in adult subjects with ASA 1-3. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the time from start of administration of sugammadex /neostigmine 
to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (see Table above). 
Sample size 
Simulations were performed to estimate the sample size based on the results of previous trials. They 
indicated that if a difference of at least 5 minutes in the mean recovery times between  sugammadex 
and neostigmine had to be detected with 95% probability, 46 subjects should be enrolled for each of 
the two sugammadex groups and each of the two neostigmine groups. Taking into account that about 
5% of the subjects might drop out from the ITT (intent-to-treat) evaluation, the sample size should be 
49 for the sugammadex and neostigmine groups: i.e. 196 subjects in total. 
Randomisation 
The enrolled subjects received a randomization number via a central randomization system, which was 
to identify their treatment. 
Blinding (masking) 
The person who was to prepare and administer, if applicable the syringes with IP was to be unblinded 
for that subject. The investigators performing safety assessments during anaesthesia should have been 
kept blind as long as possible. 
Statistical methods 
Demographic,  baseline,  exposure  and  safety  data  were  summarized  by  treatment  group. Times  from 
start of administration of the IP to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9, 0.8 and 0.7 were analyzed using 
a two-way ANOVA  model. The logarithm of the recovery time was taken as response variable, and 
trial site and treatment group were the factors of the model. For the ITT population two evaluations 
were  performed:  one  for  which  missing  recovery  times  were  imputed  and  one  that  used  only  the 
available recovery times. Statistical testing for differences between the two treatment groups was done 
one-sided, at a significance level of 2.5%. 
21/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Study 19.4.301 
Table 
Number of subjects in the different subject data sets, within and across 
treatment group, rocuronium group 
Treatment group 
Subject data set 
ASR 
AST 
ITT 
PP 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 1.5-R.A 
Org 25969 
(n) 
49 
48 
48 
44 
Neostigmine 
(n) 
49 
48 
48 
47 
Total 
(n) 
98 
96 
96 
91 
Table 
Number of subjects in the different subject data sets, within and across 
treatment group, vecuronium group 
Treatment group 
Subject data set  
ASR 
AST 
ITT 
PP 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 1.5-V.A 
ASR - All subjects randomised,  AST - All subjects treated, ITT - Intent to treat, PP - Per protocol 
Neostigmine 
(n) 
49 
45 
45 
41 
Org 25969 
(n) 
51 
48 
48 
45 
Total 
(n) 
100 
93 
93 
86 
Recruitment 
Rocuronium group 
In  total  98  subjects  were  enrolled  and  all  were  randomly  allocated  to  either  sugammadex  or 
neostigmine to reverse neuromuscular block induced by rocuronium.  
Vecuronium group 
In total 100 subjects were enrolled and all were randomly allocated to sugammadex or neostigmine to 
reverse neuromuscular block induced by vecuronium.  
Conduct of the study 
All subjects in the AST group received an intubating dose of rocuronium. Thirty four subjects received 
at least one maintenance dose of rocuronium: 15 in the sugammadex group and 19 in the neostigmine 
group. The median number of maintenance doses was three, and the individual number of maintenance 
doses ranged from one to nine. 
All  subjects  in  the  AST  group  received  an  intubating  dose  of  vecuronium.  Thirty  three  subjects 
received at least one maintenance dose of vecuronium: 20 subjects in the sugammadex group and 13 
subjects  in  the  neostigmine  group.  The  median  number  of  maintenance  doses  was  two,  and  the 
individual number of maintenance doses ranged from one to 15.  
Baseline data 
Rocuronium group 
In total 41 females and 55 males ASA physical status 1-3 patients were treated with the IP. The mean 
(range) age of these subjects was 50 (18 - 83) years. The majority (94 out of 96) of these subjects were 
Caucasian. No differences were observed between the two treatment groups with respect to age: the 
mean (SD) age was 51 (16) years in  sugammadex group and 48 (14) in the neostigmine group. The 
22/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
same holds for the body weight of the subjects: mean (SD) values were 73 (14) kg in the sugammadex 
group and 76 (15) kg in the neostigmine group. More males (65%) were enrolled in the sugammadex 
group  as  compared  to  the  neostigmine  group  (50%).  All  subjects  received  their  assigned  dose  of 
sugammadex or neostigmine. 
Vecuronium group 
In total 46 females and 47 males ASA physical status 1-3 patients were treated with the IP. The mean 
(range) age of the subjects in the AST group was 49 (20 - 81) years. All subjects were Caucasian. 
There was no differences between the two treatment groups with respect to age: the mean (SD) age 
was 49 (16) years in sugammadex group and 50 (15) years in the neostigmine group, or for the body 
weight of the patients: mean (SD) values were 81 (19) kg in the sugammadex group and 76 (13) kg in 
the neostigmine group. More males (54%) were enrolled in the sugammadex group as compared to the 
neostigmine group (47%). All subjects received their assigned dose of sugammadex or neostigmine. 
Numbers analysed 
Rocuronium group 
Two  randomized  subjects  did  not  receive  a  dose  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine,  resulting  in  96 
subjects in the AST group. All subjects in the AST group had at least one efficacy assessment and thus 
the ITT group consisted of 96 subjects. Major protocol violations were seen in five subjects, and thus 
the per protocol (PP) group consisted of 91 subjects. 
Vecuronium group 
Seven  randomized  subjects  did  not  receive  a  dose  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine  resulting  in  93 
subjects in the AST group. All subjects in the AST group had at least one efficacy assessment and thus 
the ITT group consisted of 93 subjects. Major protocol violations were seen in seven subjects thus the 
PP group consisted of 86 subjects. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table  
Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine 
administered at reappearance of T2 following rocuronium to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio 
to 0.9 (ITT group) 
Trial 19.4.301b 
Rocuronium + 
sugammadex (2.0 mg.kg-1) 
Rocuronium +  
Neostigmine (50 μg.kg-1) 
48 
1.5 
1.3 – 1.7 
1.4 
48 
18.5 
14.3 – 23.9 
17.6 
n 
Geometric Mean 
95% CI 
Median 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on log transformed times to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
 b Anaesthetic regimen included induction with propofol and maintenance with sevoflurane. 
3.7 – 106.9 
0.9 – 5.4 
<0.001 
It was estimated that the time from administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9 was 12.4 times faster compared to the time from administration of neostigmine to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 following rocuronium. The lower limit of the corresponding 97.5% CI was 9.4. 
23/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  
Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or 
neostigmine administered at reappearance of T2 following vecuronium to recovery 
of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (ITT group) 
Trial 19.4.301b 
Vecuronium + sugammadex (2.0 
mg.kg-1) 
48 
Vecuronium + Neostigmine (50 
μg.kg-1) 
45 
2.8 
2.3 – 3.4 
2.1 
16.8 
12.9 – 21.9 
18.9 
n 
Geometric Mean 
95% CI 
Median 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on log transformed times to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
b Anaesthetic regimen included induction with propofol and maintenance with sevoflurane. 
2.9 – 76.2 
1.2 – 64.2 
<0.001 
It was estimated that the time from administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9 was 6.6 times faster compared to the time from administration of neostigmine to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio  to  0.9 following  vecuronium.  The lower  limit  of  the  corresponding  one-sided  97.5%  CI 
was 4.7. 
Compared  to  neostigmine,  sugammadex  provided  significantly  faster  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to 
0.9 both after rocuronium and vecuronium induced NMB. The recovery was faster after rocuronium 
than that after vecuronium, 1.5 min vs. 2.8. min. Moreover as could be expected, based on the Phase 2 
studies  at  the  dose  of  2.0 mg.kg-1  of  sugammadex,  there  was a  high inter-individual  variation in the 
recovery times after vecuronium induced NMB.  
Ancillary analyses 
The following table  presents the times from the start of administration of sugammadex to recovery of 
the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  for  subjects  who  received  only  an  intubating  dose  of  rocuronium,  and  for 
subjects who received an intubating dose and at least one maintenance dose of rocuronium. 
Table 
Summary of the time (min:sec) from start of administration of Org 25969 to 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 for subjects who received an intubating dose only 
and those who received at least one maintenance dose, rocuronium group 
(ITT group) 
Intubating dose only 
Including imputed 
data 
Complete cases 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 6.1-R.C.1 
33 
1:28 
1:34 (0:47) 
1:23 
0:56 – 5:25 
33 
1:28 
1:34 (0:47) 
1:23 
0:56 – 5:25 
Intubating dose and 
maintenance dose(s) 
15 
1:31 
1:42 (0:56) 
1:25 
0:55 – 4:11 
14 
1:28 
1:38 (0:56) 
1:18 
0:55 – 4:11 
These times indicate that reversal of neuromuscular block by sugammadex is not affected by the last 
dose of rocuronium administered: intubating dose (0.6 mg.kg-1) and maintenance dose (0.10 to 0.20 
mg.kg-1). 
24/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below presents the times from administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio 
to 0.9 for subjects who received only an intubating dose of vecuronium, and for subjects who received 
an intubating dose and at least one maintenance dose of vecuronium. 
Table 
Summary of the time (min:sec) from start of administration of Org 25969 to 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 for subjects who received an intubating dose 
only and those who received at least one maintenance dose, vecuronium group 
(ITT group) 
Intubating dose only 
Including imputed 
data 
Complete cases 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 6.1-V.C.1 
28 
2:21 
4:28 (11:46) 
1:56 
1:12 – 64:12 
27 
2:15 
4:22 (11:59) 
1:56 
1:12 – 64:12 
Intubating dose and 
maintenance dose(s) 
20 
3:35 
4:28 (4:02) 
3:26 
1:41 – 19:47 
19 
3:27 
4:20 (4:06) 
3:26 
1:41 – 19:47 
These  data  indicate  that  the  reversal  of  NMB  by  sugammadex  is  similar  after  a  single  or  repeated 
(maintenance) doses of rocuronium. On the contrary, recovery of NMB induced by repeated doses of 
vecuronium is two-times longer that that after a single dose of vecuronium. 
Study  supporting  the  proposed  indication:  Routine  reversal  at  the  reappearance  of  T2  after 
rocuronium and vecuronium 
  Trial 19.4.310 compared rocuronium and sugammadex with cisatracurium and neostigmine. 
25/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
See table above. 
Treatments 
Subjects were to receive either a bolus dose of 0.6 mg.kg-1 rocuronium or a bolus dose of 0.15 mg.kg-1 
cisatracurium in randomized order, with maximally two maintenance doses (if applicable). After the 
last dose of rocuronium, at reappearance of T2, 2.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex was to be administered, and 
after  the  last  dose  of  cisatracurium,  at  reappearance  of  T2,  50μg.kg-1  neostigmine  was  to  be 
administered,  in  randomized  order.  All  patients  received  propofol  and  some  opioid  analgesic.  The 
groups were comparable by the baseline data. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to show a faster recovery of neuromuscular block with sugammadex after 
rocuronium as compared to neostigmine after cisatracurium when administered at reappearance of T2. 
The  secondary  objectives  were  to  evaluate the  safety  of  a  single  dose  of 2.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex 
and  50  μg.kg-1  neostigmine  administered  in  adult  subjects  and  to  show  a  faster  onset  of 
neuromuscular block after 0.6 mg.kg-1 rocuronium as compared to 0.15 mg.kg-1 cisatracurium. 
Both  objectives  are  relevant  for  routine  clinical  use.  However,  sugammadex  and  neostigmine  were 
administered to patients who had levels of NMB that were deeper than usual clinical practice. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the time from start of administration of sugammadex /neostigmine 
to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (see Table above). 
Sample size 
Simulations  were  performed  to  estimate  the  sample  size  based  on  the  results  of  previous  trials. 
Simulations indicated that if a SD of 1.5 minutes was assumed in the  sugammadex group and of 5.5 
minutes in the neostigmine group, and if a difference of at least three minutes in the mean recovery 
times  between  sugammadex  and  neostigmine  had  to  be  detected  with  90%  probability,  40  subjects 
should be enrolled for the  sugammadex and the neostigmine groups. Taking into account that about 
5% of the subjects might have dropped out from the ITT evaluation, the sample size should be 42 for 
the sugammadex and neostigmine group: i.e. 84 subjects in total. 
Randomisation 
As for Trial 19.4.301 (see above).  
Blinding (masking) 
As for Trial 19.4.301 (see above).  
Statistical methods 
As for Trial 19.4.301 (see above).  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The table below presents an overview of the number of subjects within the different subject data sets 
by treatment group and overall. 
26/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 
Number of subjects in the different subject data sets, within and across 
treatment group 
Treatment group 
Subject data set 
ASR 
AST 
ITT 
PP 
ASR - All subjects randomised,  AST - All subjects treated, ITT - Intent to treat, PP - Per protocol 
cis/Neostigmine 
(n) 
44 
39 
39 
35 
roc/Org 25969 
(n) 
40 
34 
34 
30 
Total 
(n) 
84 
73 
73 
65 
Recruitment 
In  total  84  subjects  were  enrolled  and  randomly  allocated  to  receive  rocuronium/sugammadex  or 
cisatracurium/neostigmine. 
Conduct of the study 
Eleven  randomized  subjects  did  not  receive  a  dose  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine,  resulting  in  73 
subjects in the AST group. All subjects in the AST group received an intubating dose of rocuronium or 
cisatracurium. Sixteen subjects in the roc/sugammadex group and 14 subjects in the cis/neostigmine 
group received at least one maintenance dose. Median number of maintenance doses was two in the 
roc/sugammadex group and one in the cis/neostigmine group, and the maximum individual number of 
maintenance  doses  was  two  in  both  groups,  which  was  the  maximum  allowed  according  to  the 
protocol. 
Baseline data 
In total 36 females and 37 males ASA physical status 1-3 patients were treated with the IP. The mean 
(range) age of these subjects was 45 (22 - 76) years. The majority (72 out of 73) of these subjects were 
Caucasian. 
The mean age was higher in the roc/sugammadex group compared to the cis/neostigmine group, i.e. 49 
versus 42 years respectively. The percentage of women in the roc/sugammadex group was somewhat 
higher,  i.e.  59%  versus  41%  in  the  cis/neostigmine  group.  The  mean  weight  and  height  in  the 
roc/sugammadex group was somewhat lower compared to the cis/neostigmine group (72 kg and 166 
cm in the roc/sugammadex group and 78 kg and 172 cm in the cis/neostigmine group, respectively). 
The percentage of subjects in the roc/sugammadex group with ASA class 2 or 3 was higher compared 
to the cis/neostigmine group; 62% (53% in ASA class 2 plus 9% in ASA class 3) versus 46% (all in 
ASA class 2), respectively.  
Numbers analysed 
Eleven  randomized  subjects  did  not  receive  a  dose  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine,  resulting  in  73 
subjects in the AST group. All subjects in the AST group had at least one efficacy assessment and thus 
the ITT group consisted of 73 subjects. Major protocol violations were seen in eight subjects, and thus 
the PP group consisted of 65 subjects 
27/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table  
  Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  Sugammadex  or 
neostigmine  administered  at  reappearance  of  T2  following  rocuronium  or 
cisatracurium, respectively, to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (ITT group) 
Trial 19.4.310b 
Rocuronium + sugammadex (2.0 
mg.kg-1) 
34 
Cisatracurium + Neostigmine (50 
μg.kg-1) 
39 
2.0 
1.7 – 2.4 
1.9 
8.8 
7.4 – 10.4 
7.2 
n 
Geometric Mean 
95% CI 
Median 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on log transformed times to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
b Anaesthetic regimen included induction and maintenance with propofol. 
4.2 – 28.2 
0.7 – 6.4 
<0.001 
Primary efficacy variable 
The  geometric  mean  time  from  administration  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine  to  recovery  of  the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 was 2 min:02 sec and 8 min:46 sec, respectively, including imputed data. The time 
from  administration  of  sugammadex  to  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  was  estimated  to  be  4.3 
times faster compared to the time from administration of neostigmine to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9. The lower limit of the corresponding 95% CI was 3.4 times faster. 
Exploratory analyses suggested that reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex did not differ 
between  subjects  who  received  only  an  intubating  dose  of  rocuronium  compared  to  subjects  who 
received at least one maintenance dose as well. 
Recovery  of  deep  NMB  was  significantly  faster  after  rocuronium  block  reversed  with  sugammadex 
than that of cisatracurium + neostigmine. 
Ancillary analyses 
Table 
Summary  of  the  time  (min:sec)  from  start  of  administration  of  Org 25969  to 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 for subjects who received an intubating dose only 
and  those  who  received  an  intubating  dose  and  at  least  one  maintenance  dose 
(ITT group) 
Including imputed 
data 
Complete cases 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
n 
Geometric mean 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 6.1-C 
Intubating dose and 
maintenance dose(s) 
16 
1:53 
2:02 (0:58) 
1:49 
1:07 - 5:07 
15 
1:45 
1:50 (0:32) 
1:43 
1:07 - 3:05 
Intubating dose only 
18 
2:10 
2:33 (1:34) 
2:16 
0:41 - 6:24 
17 
2:04 
2:24 (1:28) 
2:11 
0:41 - 6:24 
28/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These times suggest that reversal  of neuromuscular blockade by  sugammadex  is not affected by the 
last dose of rocuronium administered: intubating dose (0.6 mg.kg-1) and intubating dose and at least 
one maintenance dose (0.10 to 0.20 mg.kg-1). 
Study supporting the proposed indication: Routine reversal at 1-2 PTCs after rocuronium and 
vecuronium 
  Trial 19.4.302 compared sugammadex with neostigmine 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
See table above. 
Treatments 
According to the randomized treatment group, subjects were to receive an intubating dose of either 0.6 
mg.kg-1 rocuronium or 0.1 mg.kg-1 vecuronium, and neuromuscular block was to be maintained with 
either a bolus dose(s) of 0.15 mg.kg-1 rocuronium or a bolus dose(s) of 0.015 mg.kg-1 vecuronium. 
After  the  last  dose  of  rocuronium  or  vecuronium,  subjects  were  to  be  reversed  at  1-2  PTCs  with  a 
single bolus dose of either 4.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex or 70 μg.kg-1 neostigmine (total dose was not to 
exceed 5 mg) plus 14 μg.kg-1 glycopyrrolate according to their randomized treatment group. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to: 
 
to demonstrate faster recovery from a neuromuscular block induced by rocuronium after reversal 
at a block of 1-2 PTCs by 4.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex compared with 70 mcg.kg-1 neostigmine. 
to demonstrate faster recovery from a neuromuscular block induced by vecuronium after reversal 
at a block of 1-2 PTCs by 4.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex compared with 70 mcg.kg-1 neostigmine. 
 
The secondary  objective was to evaluate the safety of a single dose of 4.0 mg.kg-1 Bridion and 70 
mcg.kg-1 neostigmine administered in adult subjects. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the time from start of administration of  sugammadex/neostigmine 
to  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9.  The  efficacy  was  based  on  evaluation  of  neuromuscular 
functioning as measured by acceleromyography (TOF-Watch and clinical signs of recovery). 
Sample size 
29/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the sample size calculations, a SD of the recovery time of 1.5 min after  sugammadex was to be 
assumed while for the SD after neostigmine (under maintenance anaesthesia with sevoflurane) a range 
from 5.0-15.0  min was to be assumed. Simulations indicated that if 30 subjects per treatment group 
were to participate with data to the statistical evaluation and the SD in the sugammadex group was 1.5 
min and in the neostigmine group was 7.0 min, then existing differences of at least 5 min would have 
been detected with about 95% probability. 
Taking  into  account  that  about  5%  of  the  subjects  might  have  dropped  out  from  the  Intent-to-Treat 
evaluation, the sample size should have been 32 for each the  sugammadex and neostigmine  groups: 
i.e.,  128  subjects  in  total.  In  order  to  evenly  distribute  the  enrolment  over  the  nine  trial  sites,  the 
sample size was 36 per treatment group, i.e., 144 subjects in total. In this way, each investigational site 
was to enrol 4 subjects per treatment group, i.e., 16 subjects in total. 
Randomisation 
The subject allocation numbers were to be assigned to subjects in sequential order of their enrolment 
in  the  trial.  At  each  trial  centre,  the  first  subject  enrolled  received  the  first  site  subject  allocation 
number (the lowest) and the assigned treatment group in the Randomization Schedule. 
Blinding (masking) 
The person who prepared the medication was not to perform any subjective safety assessments for any 
of the subjects, and the safety assessor was not allowed to witness the preparation of the IP. 
Statistical methods 
Reporting of the data was done for each of the two NMBAs (rocuronium and vecuronium) separately. 
Demographic, baseline, exposure, and safety were summarized by treatment group. Times from start 
of administration of IP (sugammadex and neostigmine) to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9, 0.8 and 
0.7 were analyzed using a two-way ANOVA model. The logarithm of the recovery time was taken as 
response variable, and trial site and treatment group were the factors of the model. For the Intent-to-
Treat population two evaluations were performed: one for which missing recovery times were imputed 
and one that used only the available recovery times. Statistical testing for differences between the two 
treatment  groups  was  done  one-sided,  at  a  significant  level  of  2.335%  (adjusted  after  the  interim 
analysis). Clinical signs of recovery were summarized by treatment group only. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Rocuronium group  
The number of subjects in each subject data set, within and across treatment group is presented below 
in the tables below.  
Table 
Number of subjects in each subject data set, within and across treatment group,  
rocuronium group 
Subject data set 
Treatment group 
Org 25969 
(n) 
48 
Neostigmine 
(n) 
40 
Total 
(n) 
88 
All-Subjects-Randomized 
Group 
All-Subjects-Treated Group a) 
Intent-to-Treat Group b) 
Per-Protocol Group 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 1.5-R.A 
a) The All-Subjects-Treated Group was based on actual treatment received.  One  subject randomized to the vecuronium + 
Org 25969 group was treated with rocuronium + neostigmine.   
b) The Intent-to-Treat Group was based on the randomized treatment group.   
38 
37 
31 
75 
74 
63 
37 
37 
32 
30/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vecuronium group  
The number of subjects in each subject data set, within and across treatment group is presented below. 
Table 
Number of subjects in the different subject data sets, within and across treatment 
group, vecuronium group 
Subject data set 
Treatment group 
Org 25969 
(n) 
52 
Neostigmine 
(n) 
42 
Total 
(n) 
94 
46 
All-Subjects-Randomized 
Group 
All-Subjects-Treated Group 
a) 
Intent-to-Treat Group b) 
Per-Protocol Group 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 1.5-V.A 
a) The All-Subjects-Treated Group was based on actual treatment received.  One subject randomized to the vecuronium + 
Org 25969 group was treated with rocuronium + neostigmine.   
b) The Intent-to-Treat Group was based on the randomized treatment group.   
83 
68 
47 
38 
36 
30 
82 
36 
Recruitment 
Rocuronium group  
A total of 88 subjects were randomized to a treatment group, including 48 subjects in the sugammadex 
group and 40 subjects in the neostigmine group. 
Vecuronium group  
A total of 94 subjects were randomized to a treatment group, including 52 in the sugammadex group 
and 42 in the neostigmine group. 
Conduct of the study 
Rocuronium group 
Thirty seven patients were treated with rocuronium and sugammadex and 37 patients were treated with 
rocuronium and neostigmine, and all completed the trial. All subjects received an intubating dose of 
rocuronium.  A  maintenance  dose  of  rocuronium  was  not  administered  to  2  subjects  in  the 
sugammadex  group  and  3  subjects  in  the  neostigmine  group.  For  the  subjects  who  received 
maintenance doses of rocuronium, the median dose of 0.15 mg.kg-1 was consistent with the protocol 
specified dose.  
Vecuronium group 
Five  subjects  discontinued  prior  to  treatment  with  IP  and  1  subject  was  erroneously  treated  with 
rocuronium + neostigmine. This resulted in a total of 46 subjects who were treated with vecuronium 
and  sugammadex  and  completed  the  trial.  Thirty  six  patients  were  treated  with  vecuronium  and 
neostigmine;  35  treated  subjects  completed  the  trial.  All  subjects  received  an  intubating  dose  of 
vecuronium.  A  maintenance  dose  of  vecuronium  was  not  administered  to  4  subjects  in  the 
sugammadex  group  and  4  subjects  in  the  neostigmine  group.  For  the  subjects  who  received 
maintenance doses of vecuronium, the median dose of 0.01 mg.kg-1 
Baseline data 
Rocuronium group 
The  treatment  groups  were  generally  comparable  with  respect  to  demographics  and  other  baseline 
characteristics.  Overall,  mean  (median)  age  for  subjects  treated  with  rocuronium  was  53  (54)  years, 
ranging  from  19-85  years;  56%  of  the  subjects  were  female.  The  majority  of  subjects  was 
White/Caucasian (88%) and of ASA Class 2 (73%). 
Vecuronium group 
31/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, mean (median) age for subjects treated with vecuronium was 53 (56) years, ranging from 25 
to 78 years; 54% of the subjects were female. The majority of subjects was White/Caucasian (85%) 
and of ASA Class 2 (68%). 
The  treatment  groups  differed  for  some  of  the  demographic  characteristics.  In  comparison  with  the 
neostigmine  group,  the  sugammadex  group  showed  a  younger  mean  age  (50  vs.  57  years),  and  a 
higher  percentage  of  females  (63%  vs.  42%)  and  Blacks  (13%  vs.  3%).  Overall,  the  sugammadex 
group had a higher proportion of healthier subjects, with a lower percentage of ASA Class 3 subjects 
and a higher percentage of ASA Class 1 and 2 subjects. It is unlikely that the small differences on the 
demographic parameters may affect the interpretations of the results. 
Numbers analysed 
Rocuronium group 
The  ITT  Group  was  based  on  the  number  of  subjects  who  received  IP  and  had  at  least  one  post-
baseline efficacy assessment, according to their randomized treatment group. This resulted in a total of 
74 subjects in the ITT Group, including 37 subjects in the rocuronium + sugammadex group and 37 
subjects in the rocuronium + neostigmine group. Of the 74 subjects in the ITT Group, 11 had a major 
protocol violation resulting in a total of 63 subjects in the PP Group: 32 subjects in the rocuronium + 
sugammadex group and 31 subjects in the rocuronium + neostigmine group. 
Vecuronium group  
The  ITT  Group  was  based  on  the  number  of  subjects  who  received  IP  and  had  at  least  one  post-
baseline efficacy assessment, according to their randomized treatment group. This resulted in a total of 
83 subjects in the ITT Group, including 47 subjects in the vecuronium + sugammadex group and 36 
subjects in the vecuronium + neostigmine group. Of the 83 subjects in the ITT Group, 15 had a major 
protocol violation resulting in a total of 68 subjects in the PP Group: 38 subjects in the vecuronium + 
sugammadex group and 30 subjects in the vecuronium + neostigmine group. 
Outcomes and estimation 
It is unusual in clinical practise to relax a patient that they would have this deep NMB (1-2 PTC). Thus 
the reversal of NMB of this level is not routine. In this study, the number of ASA 3 patient was low.  
Rocuronium group 
Table   Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine 
administered at 1-2 PTCs following rocuronium to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (ITT 
group) 
n 
Geometric Mean 
95% CI 
Median 
Trial 19.4.302 
Rocuronium + sugammadex 
(4.0 mg.kg-1) 
37 
Rocuronium + Neostigmine (70 
μg.kg-1) 
37 
2.9 
2.5 – 3.4 
2.7 
50.4 
43.5 – 58.4 
49.0 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on log transformed times to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
13.3 – 145.7 
1.2 – 16.1 
<0.001 
It was estimated that the time, from administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9, was 24.4 times faster compared to the time from administration of neostigmine to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. The lower limit of the corresponding 97.665% CI was 18.3.  
32/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vecuronium group 
Table   Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or  neostigmine 
administered at 1-2 PTCs following vecuronium to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 (ITT 
group) 
n 
Geometric Mean 
95% CI 
Median 
Trial 19.4.302 
Vecuronium + sugammadex 
(4.0 mg.kg-1) 
47 
4.5 
3.3 – 6.0 
3.3 
Vecuronium + Neostigmine (70 
μg.kg-1) 
36 
66.2 
55.6 – 78.9 
49.9 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on log transformed times to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
46.0 – 312.7 
1.4 – 68.4 
<0.001 
It was estimated that the time, from administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9, was 20.9 times faster compared to the time from administration of neostigmine to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. The lower limit of the corresponding one-sided 97.665% CI was 12.3. 
The  time  to  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  was  significantly  faster  with  sugammadex  than  with 
neostigmine,  when  the  reversal  agent  was  administered  after  rocuronium-  and  vecuronium-induced 
NMB. However, it should be noted that there was a high interindividual variation on recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 when sugammadex 4 mg.kg-1 was administered at 1-2 PTC.  
Ancillary analyses 
These times suggest that reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex  is not affected by the 
last dose of rocuronium administered: intubating dose (0.6 mg.kg-1) and intubating dose and at least 
one maintenance dose (0.10 to 0.20 mg.kg-1). 
33/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study supporting the proposed indication: immediate reversal of a rocuronium induced NMB 
  Trial  19.4.303  compared  reversal  of  a  NMB  induced  by  1.2  mg.kg-1  rocuronium  with  16 
mg.kg-1  sugammadex  (administered  at  3  minutes  following  rocuronium)  versus  spontaneous 
recovery from 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
See table above. 
Treatments 
Each subject was to be randomized to one of the two treatment groups: rocuronium + sugammadex or 
succinylcholine. Subjects in the rocuronium + sugammadex group were to receive an intubation dose 
of 1.2 mg.kg-1 rocuronium and the neuromuscular blockade was to be reversed at 3 min after the start 
of  administration  of  rocuronium  with  16.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex.  Subjects  in  the  succinylcholine 
group  were  to  receive  an  intubation  dose  of  1.0  mg.kg-1  succinylcholine  and  allowed  to  recover 
spontaneously from the neuromuscular blockade. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to demonstrate faster recovery to T1 10% after neuromuscular blockade 
induced by 1.2 mg.kg-1 rocuronium reversed at 3 minutes by 16.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex compared to 
recovery after a neuromuscular blockade induced by 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. 
The secondary objectives were: 
  To demonstrate faster recovery to T1 90% after neuromuscular blockade induced by 1.2 mg.kg-1 
rocuronium  reversed  at  3  minutes  by  16.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  compared  to  recovery  after  a 
neuromuscular blockade induced by 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine. 
  To evaluate the safety of a single dose of 1.2 mg.kg-1 rocuronium reversed at 3 minutes by 16.0 
mg.kg-1 sugammadex and 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine in adult subjects. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  recovery  of  T1  to  10%  from  start  of  rocuronium  or 
succinylcholine administration.   
The  secondary  efficacy  variable  was  the  recovery  of  T1  to  90%  from  start  of  rocuronium  or 
succinylcholine administration.  
Efficacy  was  based  on evaluation  of  neuromuscular  functioning  as  measured  by  acceleromyography 
(TOF-Watch and clinical signs of recovery). 
Sample size 
34/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The time to T1 10% after a dose of 1.0 mg.kg-1 succinylcholine was measured in a study reported by 
Kopman et al. The mean (SD) time to T1 10% was 6.2 (0.8) min (n=16).  
For the primary efficacy parameter in this trial, no data were available for sugammadex. However, for 
the sample size calculations, a standard deviation was assumed between 0.8 and 1.5 min. A difference 
between two treatments in time to T1 10% of more than 1 min was to be detected with a probability of 
90% (power = 90%). Simulations indicated that a sample size of 49 per treatment group was sufficient. 
Taking into account that about 5% of the subjects would drop out from the ITT evaluation, the sample 
size was to be 52 per group. In order to evenly distribute the enrolment to 11 sites, the sample size was 
55 per group (5 subjects per treatment group per site). 
Randomisation 
The subject allocation numbers were to be assigned to subjects in sequential order of their enrolment 
in  the  trial.  At  each  trial  centre,  the  first  subject  enrolled  received  the  first  site  subject  allocation 
number (the lowest) and the assigned treatment group in the Randomization Schedule. 
Blinding (masking) 
The person who prepared the medication was not to perform any subjective safety assessments for any 
of the subjects, and the safety assessor was not allowed to witness the preparation of the IP. 
Statistical methods 
Demographic,  baseline,  exposure  and  safety  data  were  summarized  by  treatment  group. Times  from 
start of administration of rocuronium or succinylcholine to recovery of T1 to 10% and recovery of T1 
to 90% were compared using a two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) model. P-values and estimates 
for  the  treatment  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  with  corresponding  two-sided  95% 
confidence  interval,  are  presented.  For  the  ITT  population  two  evaluations  were  performed:  one  for 
which  missing  recovery  times  were  imputed  and  one  that  used  only  the  available  recovery  times. 
Clinical signs of recovery were summarized by treatment group only. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The  following  table  presents  the  number  of  subjects  in  each  subject  data  set,  within  and  across 
treatment group. 
Table 
Number of subjects in each subject data set, within and across treatment group 
Subject data set 
Treatment group 
Rocuronium + Org 25969 
Succinylcholine 
(n) 
(n) 
Total 
(n) 
57 
56 
All-Subjects-Randomized  
All-Subjects-Treated a) 
Intent-to-Treat b) 
Per-Protocol 
Data were taken from Appendix F, Table 1.5-A. 
a) The All-Subjects-Treated Group was based on actual treatment received.  One subject randomized to the rocuronium + Org 
25969 group was treated with succinylcholine, and 2 subjects randomized to the succinylcholine group were treated with 
rocuronium and Org 25969.   
b) The Intent-to-Treat Group was based on the randomized treatment group. 
110 
115 
110 
58 
54 
55 
55 
41 
32 
73 
Recruitment 
A total of 115 subjects were randomized to a treatment group, including 57 subjects in the rocuronium 
+ sugammadex group and 58 subjects in the succinylcholine group. 
Conduct of the study 
A total of 7 subjects discontinued prematurely from the trial, including 5 non-treated subjects and 2 
treated  subjects.  According  to  randomized  treatment  group,  55  subjects  in  the  rocuronium  + 
sugammadex  group and 55 subjects in the succinylcholine group were treated with trial medication. 
However, 3 subjects received trial medication that was not consistent with their randomized treatment 
group:  1  subject  in  the  rocuronium  +  sugammadex  group  was  treated  with  succinylcholine,  and  2 
35/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects  in  the  succinylcholine  group  were  treated  with  rocuronium  and  sugammadex.  With  the 
exception  of  1  subject  in  the  rocuronium  +  sugammadex  group,  all  subjects  in  the  All-Subjects-
Treated  Group  received  a  dose  of  rocuronium,  sugammadex,  or  succinylcholine  within  10%  of  the 
protocol-defined dose. One patient received 1.6 mg.kg-1 sugammadex, instead of 16.0 mg.kg-1. 
Baseline data 
Overall, mean (median) age was 42 (43) years, ranging from 18-65 years; 58% of the subjects were 
female and 42% were male. The majority of subjects in both treatment groups was White/Caucasian, 
although the percentage of Black (or African American) was higher in the rocuronium + sugammadex 
group (20%) in comparison with the succinylcholine group (9%). Most of the subjects were classified 
ASA Class 2 (59%, rocuronium + sugammadex group; 69%, succinylcholine group). Mean (SD) BMI 
was 25 (3) kg/m2 in both treatment groups. 
Numbers analysed 
The ITT Group was based on the number of randomized subjects who had at least one post-baseline 
efficacy assessment. While all treated subjects had at least one post-baseline efficacy assessment, the 
three  subjects  who  received  the  wrong  trial  medication  were  included  under  the  treatment  group  to 
which they were randomized. This resulted in a total of 110 subjects in the ITT Group, including 55 
subjects in the rocuronium + sugammadex group and 55 subjects in the succinylcholine group. Of the 
110 subjects in the ITT Group, 37 had a major protocol violation resulting in a total of 73 subjects in 
the  PP  Group:  32  subjects  in  the  rocuronium  +  sugammadex  group  and  41  subjects  in  the 
succinylcholine group. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table  
Summary  of  the  time  (min)  from  start  of  administration  of  sugammadex  or 
succinylcholine to recovery of T1 to 10% and to 90% (ITT group) 
Rocuronium + sugammadex 
(16.0 mg.kg-1) 
Succinylcholine (1.0 mg.kg-1) 
Trial 19.4.303 
Time to T1 of 10% 
n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
55 
4.4 (0.7) 
4.2 
3.5 – 7.7 
<0.001 
Time to T1 of 90% 
n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
p-valuea 
a P-value obtained from a 2-way ANOVA on the time to T1 10% / 90%. 
55 
6.2 (1.83) 
5.7 
4.2 – 13.6 
<0.001 
55 
7.1 (1.6) 
7.1 
3.7 – 10.5 
55 
10.9 (2.42) 
10.7 
5.0 – 16.2 
It was estimated that the mean time from administration of rocuronium to recovery of T1 to 10% was 
statistically  significantly  faster  (185  sec  [3min:  5  sec])  compared  with  the  mean  time  from 
administration of succinylcholine to recovery of T1 to 10%. The 95% CI ranged from -218 to -153 sec 
(-3 min:38 sec to -2 min:33 sec). 
The result of the secondary efficacy variable is in line with the primary, showing a clear treatment 
difference. Relative to the time of administration of Org 25969, the recovery times of T4/T1 ratios to 
0.7, 0.8 and 0.9 were 1.3, 1.5, and 2.2 minutes, respectively. 
Ancillary analyses 
36/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an ancillary analysis the recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 was analysed, and it was noticed that 
most patients had recovery by 3 min (87%), see following table. 
Table     Summary of times (min:sec) from start of administration of sugammadex to recovery of the 
T4/T1 ratio to 0.9, by treatment group (ITT Group) 
Time from start of 
administration of 
sugammadex to recovery 
T4/T1 ratio to 
0.9 (min:sec) 
n   
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min. - max.  
Rocuronium + 
sugammadex 
(N=55) 
54 
2:14 (2:12) 
1:44 
0:29 - 14:18 
Succinylcholine 
(N=55) 
NA 
Sugammadex 16.0 mg.kg-1 administered 3 minutes after rocuronium 1.2 mg.kg-1 provided rather rapid 
recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9, which is considered a clinically relevant end-point and should be 
sufficient for most patients in critical incidences where immediate reversal of NMB is necessary. 
  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Routine reversal - Reversal at reappearance of T2 
Administration  of  a  dose  of  2.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  at  reappearance  of  T2  after  rocuronium  or 
vecuronium during intravenous (propofol) or inhalational anaesthesia (sevoflurane) in 477 patients in 
13 Clinical Trials in a mean recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 well within 3 minutes. This is much 
faster than spontaneous recovery (39.9 minutes) or recovery after  currently available reversal agents 
like neostigmine (18.5 minutes). 
Routine reversal - Reversal at 1-2 PTC 
Administration  of  a  dose  of  4.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  at  1-2  PTC  in  129  patients  in  four  Clinical 
Trials  resulted  in  a  mean  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  within  3  minutes  after  rocuronium  and 
within 5 minutes after vecuronium. Administering maintenance doses of vecuronium instead of only 
an intubating dose delayed recovery time. 
Immediate reversal - Reversal 3 minutes after rocuronium 
Administration  of  a  dose  of  16.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  3  minutes  after  a  dose  of  1.2  mg.kg-1 
rocuronium in 65 patients in two Clinical Trials resulted in a mean recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 
of 1.7 minutes. 
Pooled  data  indicates  that  the  recovery  by  4.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  after  maintenance  doses  of 
vecuronium takes longer than after an intubating dose alone. 
  Clinical studies in special populations 
Five trials were conducted in special subject populations where Bridion was administered at a shallow 
block  induced  by  Rocuronium.  Reversal  of  vecuronium  has  not  been  investigated  in  special 
populations.  
These five trials included: 
1.  Trial 19.4.304 performed in subjects with renal failure. 
2.  Trial 19.4.305 performed in elderly subjects. 
3.  Trial 19.4.306 performed in paediatric subjects 
4.  Trial 19.4.308 performed in subjects with pulmonary complications. 
5.  Trial 19.4.309 performed in subjects with cardiac complications 
The efficacy results are given below: 
37/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trial 19.4.304 in subjects with renal failure 
1. 
This study was conducted to compare the efficacy of sugammadex and the PK profile of 2.0 mg.kg-1 
sugammadex  (and  rocuronium)  when  administered  at 
the  reappearance  of  T2  following 
rocuronium-induced  NMB  in  subjects  with  renal  disease  and  healthy  controls.  Subjects  under 
investigation were ASA class 1 - 3 for renally impaired patients and ASA class 1-2 for control group. 
A  total  of  30  subjects,  15  with  CR  CL  <30  ml/min  (renal  impaired  group)  and  15  with  CR  CL  >80 
ml/min  (normal  control  group),  each  received  a  single,  bolus  intravenous  dose  of  0.6  mg/kg 
rocuronium, followed by a single, bolus, intravenous dose of 2 mg/kg Bridion at reappearance of T2.  
The  mean  time  from  start of  administration  of  Bridion  to recovery  of  the T4/T1 ratio to  0.9  was 2.0 
minutes for the renally impaired subjects and 1 min:39 sec for the control subjects.  
Based  on  the  prespecified  full  ANOVA  model,  the  estimated  mean  absolute  difference  between  the 
renally impaired and control subjects were +27.3 seconds. The corresponding 95% CI ranged from  -
10.9 to +65.5 seconds. The CI was not completely within the pre-defined equivalence interval of-60 to 
+60 seconds and equivalence could not be claimed between the two groups.  
Based on the additive ANOVA model, the estimated mean absolute difference was +20.1 seconds and 
the  corresponding  95%  CI  ranged  from  -12.1  to  +52.3  seconds.  This  CI  was  within  the  pre-defined 
equivalence interval.  
This  small  study  indicates  that  there  may  not  be  differences  in  the  recovery  of  rocuronium-induced 
NMB when sugammadex 2.0 mg.kg-1 is administered at the reappearance of T2 between subjects with 
renal disease and the healthy controls.  
Trial 19.4.305 in elderly subjects 
2. 
This study was a multicenter, parallel group, comparative trial to compare the efficacy of sugammadex 
in elderly subjects with adult subjects. 
A total of 48 subjects aged 18-64 years, and 62 subjects aged 65-74 years, and 40 subjects aged >75 
years, received a single bolus intravenous dose of 2.0 mg/kg Org after the last dose of rocuronium and 
at the reappearance of T2. 
The geometric mean time from administration of Bridion to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 was  2 
min:16  sec  in  the  adult  group  and  2  min:56  sec  in  the  geriatric  group,  when  missing  data  were 
imputed.  
The time from administration of Bridion to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 was estimated to be 0.70 
min  slower  for  the  geriatric  group  than  for  the  adult  group.  Data  indicated  that  the  time  from 
administration of Bridion to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 for the 65-74 age group was about 20 
seconds (on average) slower than for the 18-64 age group. For the 75+ age group the time was more 
than one minute (on average) slower than for the 18-64 age group. 
Exploratory analysis indicated that reversal of neuromuscular block by Bridion did not differ between 
subjects  who received  only  an  intubating  dose of rocuronium  compared  to subjects  who received  at 
least one maintenance dose as well. 
Trial 19.4.306 in paediatric subjects 
3. 
This  was a  phase  III,  multi-centre,  randomized,  parallel  dose-finding,  placebo  controlled, and  safety 
assessor blinded trial to explore the efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics of Bridion in paediatric and 
adult subjects.  
Subjects  of  ASA  class  1-2,  between  the  ages  of  28  days  and  65  years,  scheduled  for  general 
anaesthesia  with  anticipated  duration  of  anaesthesia  of  at  least  60  minutes,  without  further  need  for 
muscle relaxation other than one single dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium were included in the trial. 
38/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One-hundred twenty subjects were enrolled, six per dose group and  per age group. The dose groups 
were  0.5,  1.0,  2.0,  or  4.0  mg/kg  Bridion  or  placebo.  The  age  groups  were:  Infants  (28  days  -  23 
month),  children  (2-11  years),  adolescents  (12  –  17  years)  and  adults  (18  -65  years).  A  total  of  91 
subjects  (8  infants,  24  children,  31  adolescents,  and  28  adults) received  a  single,  bolus, intravenous 
dose of Bridion (0.5, 1, 2, or 4 mg/kg) or placebo. A total of 90 subjects completed the trial. 
Primary efficacy variable was time from start of administration of sugammadex to recovery of T4/T1 
ratio to 0.9. 
The results are presented in the table below. 
Table  
Org 25969 administered at reappearance of T2 following rocuronium 
administration: summary of the time to recovery of T4/T1 to 0.9 (min) by age 
group and dose, Clinical Trial 19.4.306 (PP group) 
Infants n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Children n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Adolescents n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Adults n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min. – max. 
Placebo 
2 
21.0 (11.3) 
21.0 
13.0 – 29.0 
4 
19.6 (11.0) 
19.0 
8.4 – 31.8 
5 
22.8 (13.1) 
23.4 
6.8 – 41.7 
6 
29.5 (8.4) 
28.5 
19.6 – 44.0 
0.5 mg/kg 
Org 25969  
2 
3.7 (0.6) 
3.7 
3.3 – 4.2 
5 
5.2 (3.5) 
3.7 
2.4 – 10.9 
5 
12.0 (17.7) 
4.6 
1.9 – 43.5 
5 
3.8 (1.1) 
4.2 
2.3 – 4.8 
Dose group 
1.0 mg/kg 
Org 25969  
2 
2.4 (0.7) 
2.4 
1.9 – 2.9 
5 
4.0 (3.2) 
2.7 
1.9 – 9.6 
6 
1.8 (0.4) 
1.7 
1.5 – 2.5 
5 
1.6 (0.3) 
1.7 
1.2 – 2.0 
2.0 mg/kg 
Org 25969 
1 
0.6 (-) 
0.6 
0.6 – 0.6 
4 
1.2 (0.4) 
1.2 
0.9 – 1.6 
6 
1.9 (1.7) 
1.1 
0.7 – 5.2 
5 
1.3 (0.3) 
1.2 
0.9 – 1.6 
4.0 mg/kg 
Org 25969  
1 
0.7 (-) 
0.7 
0.7 – 0.7 
4 
1.6 (1.9) 
0.6 
0.6 – 4.4 
6 
1.1 (0.2) 
1.1 
0.7 – 1.4 
5 
1.4 (0.4) 
1.4 
1.0 – 2.0 
It  was  concluded  that  for  children,  adolescents  and  adults  a  clear  dose-response  relationship  was 
found.  On  the  contrary,  in  infants,  the  mean  time  to  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  markedly 
decreased  with  increasing  dose  of  sugammadex.  However  no  plateau,  i.e.  no  limit  of  recovery  was 
reached and no dose-response effect could be demonstrated. This was due to the low number of infants 
(one  or  two  infants  in  each  of  the  dose  groups).  Plasma  concentrations  of  sugammadex  were 
approximately  dose  proportional  over  the  dose  range  of  0.5  to  4.0  mg.kg-1  in  all  age  groups.  No 
recurarization was observed. 
The safety data indicate that sugammadex was well tolerated by the paediatric and adult subjects. The 
results of infants should be interpreted with care due to the low number of infants in the trial. Of the 
two SAEs that occurred in this trial, one occurred in an infant and the other in a child. 
Trial 19.4.308 in subjects at increased risk of pulmonary complications 
4. 
This was a multi-centre, randomized, parallel group, comparative, safety-assessor blinded trial in adult 
surgical subjects under general anaesthesia at increased risk for pulmonary complications (i.e. subjects 
with a history of or a diagnosis of pulmonary disease). 
A total of 77 subjects were treated and completed the trial: 39 subjects received 2.0 mg/kg Bridion and 
38  subjects  received  4.0  mg/kg  Bridion  as  single  bolus  intravenous  doses  at  the  reappearance  of  T2 
following the last dose of rocuronium.  
39/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objectives were to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 2.0 and 4.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex after a 
neuromuscular block induced by rocuronium after reversal at reappearance of T2. 
The  geometric  mean  time  from  administration  of  2.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  and  4.0  mg.kg-1 
sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 were 2.1 min and 1.8 min, respectively. The time 
from the start of the administration of IP to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 ranged from 0.8 min to 
12.0  min  in  the  2.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  group,  and  from  0.7  min  to  11.5  min  in  the  4.0  mg.kg-1 
sugammadex group. For two subjects a long recovery time was observed (12.0 minutes for one subject 
in the 2.0 mg.kg-1 group and 11.5 minutes for one subject in the 4.0 mg.kg-1 group). 
Trial 19.4.309 Subjects with cardiac complications 
5. 
This was a multi-centre, randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, safety-assessor blinded trial, 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of sugammadex in cardiac patients. 
Cardiopathic patients were those with ischemic heart disease, chronic heart failure or arrhythmia), of 
NYHA Class II to III, they were ASA class maximally 4 (class 4 only because of NYHA class III), 
aged  at  least  18  years,  scheduled  for  elective,  noncardiac  surgery  under  general  anaesthesia  with 
propofol in the supine position, with planned muscle relaxation using rocuronium.  
In  total  121  subjects  were  randomized  and  116  subjects  were  treated:  38  subjects  with  2.0  mg.kg-1 
sugammadex, 38 subjects with 4.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex  and 40 with placebo.  In total 116 subjects 
completed the trial. The trial medications were administered as single bolus intravenous doses at the 
reappearance of T2 following the last dose of rocuronium.  
The  trial  indicates  that  sugammadex  at  dose  levels  of  2.0  and  4.0  mg.kg-1  is  effective  in  cardiac 
patients; the mean times from the start of the administration of sugammadex to recovery of the T4/T1 
ratio to 0.9 were 36.9 min in the placebo group and 1.7 min and 1.4 min respectively in the 2.0 and 4.0 
mg.kg-1  sugammadex  dose  groups.  Furthermore  the  4.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex  group  had  a  faster 
mean recovery than the 2.0 mg.kg-1 sugammadex group according to the point estimates (difference in 
geometric means of 23 seconds).  
  Supportive studies 
Trial    19.4.210,  investigating  the  use  of  Bridion  in  subjects  receiving  propofol  anaesthesia  or 
sevoflurane anesthesia. 
This was a multi-center, randomized, safety assessor-blinded, phase II parallel group comparative trial 
in  subjects  of  ASA  class  I-III  comparing  efficacy  and  safety  of  Bridion  administered  in  subjects 
receiving anesthesia using propofol compared to subjects receiving anaesthesia using sevoflurane. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  show  equivalence  in  recovery  to  T4/T1  ratio  of  0.9  after reversal  with 
Bridion at reappearance of T2 between subjects receiving anesthesia using propofol or sevoflurane. 
All subjects received rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg as neuromuscular blocking agent, followed by 2.0 mg/kg 
of Bridion at reappearance of T2. Anaesthesia was maintained using either propofol > 6.0 mg/kg/h or 
sevoflurane,  target  minimal  alveolar  concentration  1.5  (adjusted  for  age),  in  random  order  and 
according to clinical need and at least until recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. 
A total of 42 subjects was randomized, treated and completed the trial (21 subjects per group). 
The  mean  time  from  start  of  administration  of  Bridion  to  recovery  of  the  T4/T1  ratio  to  0.9  was  1 
min:48 sec for subjects who received maintenance of anesthesia with sevoflurane, and 1 min:50 sec 
for subjects with maintenance of anesthesia using propofol. 
The  estimated  mean  difference  was  -1  second,  with  the  corresponding  95%  CI  ranging  from  -28  to 
+26 seconds. 
Trial 19.4.311 
40/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  the  applicant  this  trial  was  conducted  to  determine  the  safety  and  time-course  of 
recovery to a T4/T1 ratio of 0.9 within 4 minutes after 4.0 mg/kg Bridion given at least 15 minutes after 
the last administration of rocuronium in a wide range of surgical procedures and anaesthetic regimens. 
This  trial  was  designed  to  mimic  the  use  of  sugammadex  in  normal  daily  practice  in  different 
anaesthetic  regimens  and  a  wide  range  of  anaesthetic  procedures.  Each  subject  was  to  receive  an 
intravenous single bolus dose of 0.6 mg.kg-1 rocuronium for endotracheal intubation. If further NMB 
was required, maintenance doses of 0.15 mg.kg-1 rocuronium could be administered. The NMB was to 
be  reversed,  at  least  15  minutes  after  the  last  dose  of  rocuronium,  with  a  dose  of  4.0  mg.kg-1 
sugammadex.  One  hundred  and  thirty  four  (134)  patients  received  at least  one maintenance  dose  of 
rocuronium.  
The  median  value  of  the  mean  maintenance  dose  was  0.15  mg.kg-1  and  the  median  number  of 
maintenance doses administered to the subjects was 3. The individual number of maintenance doses 
ranged  from  1  to  16.158  (89%)  out  of  177  subjects  recovered  to  a T4/T1  of  0.9  within 4  minutes of 
receiving  4.0  mg.kg-1  sugammadex.  The  mean  time  from  administration  of  sugammadex  after  an 
intubating dose of rocuronium to recovery of the T4/T1 ratio to 0.9 was 2.0 minutes compared to 1.9 
minutes in subjects who received an intubating dose and at least one maintenance dose of rocuronium.  
  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  Applicant  has  demonstrated  that  sugammadex,  which  is  selective  for  steroidal  neuromuscular 
blocking  agents,  can  rapidly  encapsulate  free  steroidal  NMBAs,  e.g.  rocuronium  and  vecuronium, 
thereby preventing their pharmacological actions in the neuromuscular junction in a dose dependant 
manner. However, sugammadex does not reverse neuromuscular block induced by succinylcholine or 
benzylisoquinolium  compounds,  and 
reversal  of 
benzylisoquinolone-induced NMB. 
thus  anticholinesterases  are  needed 
for 
With respect to the model development and the Applicant has updated and redeveloped parts of the 
PKPD  interaction  model.  However,  it  is  advised  that  the  full  PKPD  interaction  model  should  be 
updated  for  future  predictions;  the  aim  being  to  develop  one  model  that  includes  predictions  for  as 
many sub-populations as possible. The applicant has committed to present a plan for the update of the 
model as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008.  
In the PK studies, the changes in the APTT, PT (inr) and PT in the presence of Bridion and Org 48302 
in in vitro tests suggest interference of these drugs with coagulation cascade.  As a follow-up, in study 
19.4.115,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  investigate  the  effects  of  Bridion  on  coagulation  in 
volunteers  and  the  applicant  has  agreed  to  provide  this  information  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment, as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. There will also be an in vitro 
part, in which several coagulation tests with different Bridion concentrations will be tested. 
The  clinical  data  submitted  from  29  clinical  trials,  including  14  Phase  II  and  10  Phase  III  clinical 
trials,  has  been  considered  sufficient  to  provide  evidence  to  support  the  use  of  Bridion  in  the  three 
clinical  settings  i.e.  reversal  of  shallow  (moderate)  or  profound  (deep)  block,  and  also  in  the 
immediate reversal of NMB, in the airway emergency situation.  
In  two  of  the  Phase  III  trials  (Trial  19.4.301  &  Trial  19.4.310)  that  specifically  investigated  the 
reversal of a shallow (moderate) block (routine reversal at the reappearance of T2), administration 
of  Bridion resulted in a  more rapid recovery  from  NMB  when compared to  neostigmine  as  reversal 
agent. This was true for the reversal of NMB induced by both rocuronium and vecuronium. Routine 
reversal  of  shallow  block  resulted  in  a  slightly  faster  recovery  time  in  the  rocuronium  group  as 
compared  to  the  vecuronium.  The  geometric  mean  time  to  recovery  from  a  shallow  block  was  1.5 
minutes in the rocuronium group and 2.8 minutes in the vecuronium group. Furthermore,  reversal of 
neuromuscular blockade by Bridion appears not to be affected by the last dose of rocuronium but was 
slightly prolonged in subjects received maintenance doses of vecuronium. 
Although,  the  currently  reversal  strategy  involves  the  convenience  of  using  the  same  antagonist 
(neostigmine) to reverse of all non-depolarising NMBA and the fact that Bridion does not antagonize 
41/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
residual  block  induced  by  benzylisoquinolinium  relaxants  such  as  atracurium,  mivacurium  and  cis-
atracurium, the introduction of a new reversal agent - specifically for the reversal of rocuronium and 
vecuronium, resulting in a faster recovery of NMB may also have an impact on the choice of NMBA 
to be used in the routine clinical setting. The use of sugammadex in common anaesthesia practice has 
been reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC, posology. 
In  the  pivotal  trial  (Trial  19.4.302)  investigating  reversal  from  a  profound  (deep)  NMB  (routine 
reversal  at  1-2  PTCs),  a  large  difference  in  mean  recovery  time  was  seen  when  Bridion  was 
compared  with  neostigmine.  The  geometric  mean  time  to  recovery  from  a  profound  block  was  2.9 
minutes  in  the  rocuronium  group  and  4.5  minutes  in  the  vecuronium  group.  The  efficacy  results  in 
both  the  rocuronium  and  vecuronium  groups  confirm  that  Bridion  can  be  used  in  reversal  of  a 
profound  NMB.  The  requirement  to  obtain  some  degree  of  spontaneous  recovery  will  no  longer  be 
present. 
The mean difference in recovery time of 47 minutes in the rocuronium group, and 61 minutes in the 
vecuronium  group  when  compared  to  neostigmine  group  probably  mirrors  the  known  fact  that  the 
currently available reversal agents such as neostigmine is not nearly as effective as a reversal agent at 
a profound block.  
The Applicant has clarified that doubling of the dose from 4 to 8 mg/kg Bridion in the situation where 
reversal would take place at 1-2 PTC resulted in a reduction of the median time of recovery to a TOF 
0.9 from 1.6 minutes to 1.2 minutes in rocuronium patients and a reduction from 2.1 minutes to 1.5 
minutes  in  vecuronium  patients.  A  further reduction of  less than a  minute  was not  considered  to be 
clinically significant.  
In  most  surgical  procedures  a  profound  block  is  not  needed  but  in  the  surgical  procedure  where  a 
profound  block  is  required  the  use  of  Bridion  and  subsequently  the  rapid  recovery  of  the 
neuromuscular function would be of clinical value. Of the non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking 
drugs  available,  rocuronium  has  the  most  rapid  onset  of  action.  In  situations  where  a  return  to 
spontaneous  ventilation  is  desirable,  rocuronium  followed  by  Bridion  may  be  considered  as  good 
choice.  
In  the  clinical  trial  (Trial  19.4.303)  investigating  the  “Immediate  reversal”  setting,  a  statistically 
significant  treatment  difference  was  observed  in  the  recovery  time  between  the  different  treatment 
groups. The mean recovery time from administration of the NMBA of 4 min:22 sec in the rocuronium 
+  Bridion  group  compared  to  7  min:4  sec  in  the  succinylcholine  group  is  considered  as  highly 
clinically relevant in the emergency airway setting in which currently no reversal agent is available.  
It must be emphasized though, that the administration of Bridion is not the one and only solution for 
the emergency situation of a cannot-intubate-cannot-ventilate (CICV) scenario. The administration of 
Bridion  will  only  partially  solve  the  situation  of  CICV  as  the  patient  is  not  only  receiving  muscle 
relaxant but also anaesthetics and opioids, which also unable spontaneous breathing. Moreover, if the 
patient can not be intubated nor ventilated in 4 min:22 sec from the administration of NMBA (time of 
administration of Bridion to the recovery times of T4/T1 0.9  was 2.2 minutes) this is considered too 
long a time to solely await recovery of spontaneous breathing, and the handling of the patients almost 
always  adhere  to  “the  flowchart  for  the  difficult  airway”  including  the  usage  of  different  technical 
measures  to facilitate intubation  and  finally  the  consideration  of  an  acute  tracheotomy,  even  though 
Bridion  has  been  administered.  However  it  should  be  pointed  out  that  Bridion  will  provide  the 
physician with a most valuable tool in a CICV scenario if the NMB was induced by rocuronium. There 
is an unmet clinical need for a drug that can reverse a profound block induced by NMBA in a cannot-
intubate-cannot-ventilate (CICV) situation. 
No trials were conducted to investigate the efficacy of sugammadex in immediate reversal situations 
following a pancuronium- and vecuronium-induced NMB.  
It is also noted that the efficacy and safety of the proposed dose has been evaluated only in ASA I–III 
adult patients who were reasonably healthy.  
42/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  effects  in  favour  of  Bridion  have  been 
found  in  the  primary  analysis  (ITT  with  imputed  data)  of  all  pivotal  studies.  The  findings  were 
considered  to  be  robust  and  consistent  results  were  obtained  in  the  ITT-complete  cases  and  PP 
analyses as well as in the analyses of secondary efficacy variables. 
Bridion  results  in  a  clinically  significant  reduction  in  recovery  time  as  compared  to  established 
regimens  in  the  reversal  of  a  shallow  (moderate;  routine  reversal  at  the  reappearance  of  T2)  and 
profound (deep; routine reversal at 1-2 PTCs) NMB in routine clinical setting, and the requirement to 
obtain  some  degree  of  spontaneous  recovery  before  a  reversal  agent  can  be  administered,  will  no 
longer be present. In particular Bridion will provide the physician with a valuable tool of immediate 
reversal, in a CICV scenario if the NMB was induced by rocuronium. 
Although no clinical trials were performed on the readministration of rocuronium and vecuronium, the 
Applicant  has  agreed  that  there  should  be  a  waiting  time  of  24  hours.  In  order  to  avoid  the  risk  of 
confusion,  one  time-point  for  both  rocuronium  and  vecuronium  has  been  applied  to  all  patients  - 
irrespective  of  renal  function  or  previously  used  dose  of  sugammadex.  Therefore  the  overall 
recommended waiting times for reuse of rocuronium and vecuronium of 24 hours for all situations has 
been implemented in the SPC.  
In addition, five trials were conducted in special subject populations e.g. in subjects with pulmonary or 
cardiac complications, in subjects with renal failure, in paediatric and in elderly subjects. With some 
minor differences, the efficacy results in special populations were comparable with the efficacy shown 
in healthy adult subjects when Bridion was administered at a shallow NMB induced by rocuronium. 
The  recovery  time  was  slightly  prolonged  in  elderly  subject  >75  years  (on  average  1  minutes)  and 
markedly  decreased  in  paediatric  subjects.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  investigate  the  safety  of 
Bridion in severe renal impaired patients as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
Clinical safety 
  Patient exposure 
The safety data presented come from 29 completed clinical trials in which 1833 subjects were exposed 
to Bridion.   
The  pooled  Phase  1  dataset  includes  a  total  of  120  subjects  who  received  one  or  more  doses  of 
Bridion  (representing  272  total  exposures)  and  no  NMBA,  and  114  subjects  who  received  a  single 
dose of placebo and no NMBA. 
The  pooled  Phase  1-3  dataset  includes  1713  subjects  (26  Phase  1  subjects  and  1687  Phase  2-3 
subjects) who received a single dose of Bridion and an NMBA, and 140 subjects (10 Phase 1 subjects 
and 130 Phase 2-3 subjects) who received a single dose of placebo and NMBA.  
Most of the patients were between ages of 18-64 years, majority were Caucasian or Asian, only some 
Hispanic/Latino or Black people were studied. Safety data of Bridion in races other than Caucasian or 
Asian does not indicate any inconsistency with the profile seen in the general population with regard 
to adverse events, laboratory results, and vital signs. 
Safety data on ASA 4 patients is very limited (1 subject). Additional ASA 4 patients will be included 
in future Phase IIIB studies. 
Safety  data  on  infants  is  limited  and  there  is  currently  no  data  on  neonates.  At  present,  the  use  of 
Bridion  in  term  newborn  infants  and  infants  is  not  recommended.  Further  paediatric  studies  are 
planned. 
Safety data on patients over 75 years of age does not indicate any inconsistency with the profile seen 
in the general population with regard to adverse events, laboratory results, and vital signs. 
43/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data on patients with haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis is limited and the use of Bridion in 
severe renal impaired patients is currently not recommended. Further clinical trials are planned 
  Adverse events  
Two datasets were generated for the integrated analysis of safety: 
1. 
In this data set, adverse events were pooled for the 4 randomized, double blind Phase I crossover trials 
in which subjects received single doses of study medication but no anaesthetic or NMBA. 
Pooled Phase I Dataset  
According  to  the  applicant  all  AEs  in  the  integrated  database  are  coded  to  MedDRA  version  9.1. 
Therefore, there are some differences between the coding in the integrated database compared to some 
individual trial reports that were originally coded to WHO-ART. 
Pooled Phase I-III Data set  
2. 
In this data set safety data were pooled from all trials in which Bridion or placebo were administrated 
following  an  NMBA  (N=24).  The  dataset  is  referred  to  as  Total  Bridion  group  and  includes  data 
from 1713 subjects. Particular interest has focused on the doses of 2.0 mg/kg, 4.0 mg/kg and 16 mg/kg 
Bridion. 
Within this dataset, two additional subsets were generated: 
  Dataset Bridion vs. Neostigmine:  
In this dataset safety data were pooled from the 2 Phase III trials in which Bridion was compared to 
neostigmine.  Trials  19.4.301  and  Trial  19.4.302  in  which  179  subjects  received  Bridion  and  167 
subjects received neostigmine.  
The incidence of subjects with at least one AE was similar for Bridion subjects (88%) and neostigmine 
subjects (89%). The  overall incidence  of  AEs  was  similar  between the  two  groups regardless  of the 
NMBA administered, although it was slightly higher overall in the rocuronium group: 
  Rocuronium plus Bridion (91%), rocuronium plus neostigmine (93%); 
  Vecuronium plus Bridion (85%), vecuronium plus neostigmine (85%). 
The  AEs,  those  that  occurred  in  at  least  2%  Bridion  subjects  and  at  least  twice  as  frequently  as  in 
neostigmine subjects included flatulence and postoperative gastrointestinal disorder. Conversely, AEs 
in  neostigmine  subjects  that  occurred  at  least  twice  as  frequently  as  in  Bridion  subjects  included 
dizziness,  procedural  complication,  dry  mouth,  oral  pain,  anxiety,  procedural  hypotension,  anaemia, 
post  procedural  vomiting,  dyspepsia,  airway  complication  of  anaesthesia,  post  procedural 
complication, erythema, and neuromuscular block prolonged. 
  Dataset Bridion vs. Placebo:  
In this dataset safety data were pooled from the 10 trials that included a placebo group in which 640 
subjects received Bridion and 140 subjects received placebo.  
Table  
Number of adult subjects exposed to Bridion or placebo in pooled Phase 1-3 trials 
with a placebo group by the type of NMBA 
The  incidence  of  subjects  with  at  least  one  AE  was  similar  for  Bridion  subjects  (68%)  and  placebo 
subjects  (72%).  The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  similar  between  the  Bridion  and  placebo  groups 
regardless of the NMBA administered, although it was higher overall in the vecuronium group:  
44/59 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Rocuronium plus Bridion (67%), rocuronium plus placebo (70%)  
  Vecuronium plus Bridion (75%), vecuronium plus placebo (83%)   
  A total of 58% of the 19 subjects in the uncontrolled Bridion plus pancuronium group 
experienced at least one AE 
The AEs that occurred in at least 2% Bridion subjects and at least twice as frequently as in placebo 
subjects  included  anaesthetic  complication  and  cough.  Adverse  events  in  placebo  subjects  that 
occurred at least twice as frequently as in Bridion subjects included constipation, dysuria, paraesthesia, 
malaise, post procedural nausea, pruritus, anaemia, and ventricular extrasystoles.  
The AE “anaesthetic complication” in either treatment group occurred only in subjects who received 
rocuronium (vs. vecuronium). Other complications of anaesthesia occurred infrequently and included 
the following: 
  Airway complication of anaesthesia (1% Bridion, 0% placebo), 
  Delayed recovery from anaesthesia (1% Bridion, 0% placebo), 
  Unwanted awareness during anaesthesia (< 1% Bridion, 0% placebo), and 
  Anaesthetic complication cardiac (< 1% Bridion, 0% placebo). 
The group of “anaesthetic complications” observed with rocuronium or vecuronium were not reported 
in  the  small  subset  of  19  subjects  who  received  pancuronium  and  Bridion.  One  subject  in  the 
pancuronium and Bridion group experienced prolonged neuromuscular block. 
Phase 1 - 3 dose response studies 
Overall, 80% of all subjects exposed to any dose of Bridion plus an NMBA (rocuronium, vecuronium, 
or pancuronium) experienced at least one AE. No dose response was apparent for the overall incidence 
of AEs. 
The overall incidence of AEs was 79% in the 2 mg/kg group, 89% in the 4 ml/kg group, and 81% in 
the 16 mg/kg group. 
Adverse  events  occurred  in  at  least  2%  of  all  Bridion  subjects  who  received  an  NMBA  in  pooled 
Phase 1-3 trials.  The most frequent (i.e., ≥ 20% incidence) adverse effects in the total Bridion group 
included  injury,  poisoning,  and  procedural  complications  (57%  total  Bridion),  gastrointestinal 
disorders  (38%  total  Bridion),  and  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (22%  total 
Bridion). No dose response was apparent for AE incidence.  
The most frequent (i.e., ≥ 5% incidence) AEs in the Bridion group included procedural pain, nausea, 
vomiting,  pyrexia,  headache,  pharyngolaryngeal  pain,  constipation,  dizziness,  pain,  and  chills.  AEs 
describing  anaesthetic  complications  each  occurred  in  3%  or  less  of  the  total  Bridion  group  and 
included  anaesthetic  complication  (3%),  airway  complication  of  anaesthesia  (1%),  prolonged 
neuromuscular block (< 1%), delayed recovery from anaesthesia (< 1%), unwanted awareness during 
anaesthesia (< 1%), and anaesthetic complication cardiac (< 1%). 
Injection site irritation 
In the Phase 1 studies one commonly occurring AE was injection site irritation. In some patients even 
paraesthesia enduring several days was reported. Erythema in the injection site has been also reported. 
Electrocardiographic changes  
In  the  Phase  1  study  194101  one  male  discontinued  the  study  due  to  an  adverse  event;  a  Wolff-
Parkinson-White-syndrome detected on the ECG recording 30 and 60 minutes after administration of 
2.0 mg/kg Bridion. The subject had no symptoms at that moment and his vital signs were normal. The 
ECG was normal at 2 hours post-dose.  
QTc changes 
QT time in the ECG has been evaluated. In these evaluations QT has been corrected with heart rate 
using three methods Bazzet's and Fridericia's correction and correction with linear regression model. 
In Phase 1 studies prolongations of QTc in several healthy persons were noted. 
45/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were significant prolongations in the QTc interval in all of the Phase 1-3 studies. Especially, the 
use of sevoflurane increased incidence of abnormally long QTc intervals. However, no  torsades des 
pointes arrhythmia was noted in any of the study subjects.  
The risk of a pharmacodynamic interaction on the QT interval can not be excluded for the combination 
of  Bridion  and  Sevoflurane.  In  the  phase  II  19.4.210  study  when  Bridion  was  administered  with 
sevoflurane  or  propofol  a  significant  prolongation  of  QTc  interval  was  recorded  in  a  small  patient 
population. Mean QTc interval prolongation in the sevoflurane group was in the range as reported in 
previous publications. Additionally, subjects in the propofol group had statistically significant QTcF 
prolongation.  In  the  group  of  clinically  important  outliers,  11  out  of  the  total  16  subjects  had  a 
concomitant medication which is known to prolong the QTc interval. 
The QTc prolongation is a concern in clinical situations when many other drugs affecting QT-interval 
are used concomitantly. The data of Bridion and QTc prolongation is few and already in the 19.4.210 
study  population,  clinically  significant  changes  in  QTc  interval  are  noted.  The  applicant  has 
committed  to  provide  detailed  evaluation  of the  QTc prolongations  reported  as  SAEs  in  the clinical 
trials trials -  particularly related to concomitant administered drugs (sevoflurane, propofol), as a post-
authorisation commitment, as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. The Applicant 
will also closely follow and report the QTc interval prolongations in PSURs.  
Bridion vs. Placebo: Related AEs 
More Bridion subjects (32%) than placebo subjects (7%) had related AEs. In both treatment groups, 
the overall incidence of related AEs in each system organ class (SOC) was < 20%.  
The most frequent AE was Nervous System Disorders, and the incidence of related AEs in this class 
was higher in Bridion subjects (19%) than in placebo subjects (4%). Gastrointestinal system disorders 
also occurred more frequently in Bridion subjects (13%) than in placebo subjects (3%). Of the SOCs 
with a lower incidence of related AEs, at least twice as many Bridion subjects compared to placebo 
subjects had related AEs of the general disorders and administration site conditions SOC (5% Bridion, 
2% placebo), the respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal Disorders SOC (3% Bridion, 0% placebo), and 
the skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders SOC (3% Bridion, 1% placebo). 
Related AEs that occurred in 2% or more of subjects in either treatment group were dysgeusia, nausea, 
headache, abdominal pain, dry mouth, dizziness, and salivary hypersecretion. Of these related AEs, all 
but headache occurred at least twice as frequently in Bridion subjects compared to placebo subjects. 
Dysgeusia, nausea, abdominal pain and dizziness were also the AEs that occurred overall at least twice 
as  frequently  in  Bridion  subjects  compared  to  placebo  subjects  and/or  showed  a  dose  trend.  All 
occurrences of dysgeusia, nausea (reported only in Bridion subjects) and dizziness (reported only in 
Bridion subjects), were judged to be related to the trial medication by the investigator, abdominal pain 
were  considered  to  be  related  by  the  investigator  (in  6  of  9  Bridion  subjects  and  in  1  of  1  placebo 
subject). 
Anaesthetic complications 
Anaesthetic complications identified in any subject who received any dose of Bridion plus a NMBA 
included the following: 
  Anaesthetic complication (3%, 57 subjects), 
  Airway complication of anaesthesia (1%, 12 subjects), 
  Delayed recovery from anaesthesia (< 1%, 5 subjects), 
  Unwanted awareness during anaesthesia (< 1%, 2 subjects) 
  Anaesthetic complication cardiac (< 1%, 1 subject). 
Most anaesthetic complications and coughing were reported in fentanyl and propofol treated subjects 
and not in subjects administered remifentanil or sevoflurane.  
46/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approximately  half  of  the  anaesthetic  complications  (28/63)  are  considered  to  be  inadequate  (light) 
anaesthesia. Most complications were associated with immediate reversal at recovery to a TOF-ratio 
of 0.9, i.e. at restoration of neuromuscular blocking function. 
Airway complication of anaesthesia 
This  includes  descriptions  such  as  bucking  and  spontaneous  breathing.  In  Phase  1-3  trials  with  a 
placebo group, the incidence of airway complication of anaesthesia was 1% in Bridion subjects 0% in 
placebo  subjects.  In  two  Phase  3  controlled  trials  (19.4.301  and  19.4.302)  airway  complication  of 
anaesthesia  occurred  more  frequently  in  neostigmine  subjects  (2%)  compared  to  Bridion  subjects 
(1%). 
Airway  complication  of  anaesthesia  was  judged  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  Bridion  in  <  1%  (3 
subjects)  of  all  Bridion  subjects  i.e.,  in  about  25%  of  all  subjects  who  experienced  the  AE.  Most 
occurrences  of  airway  complication  of  anaesthesia  were  mild  to  moderate;  a  severe  occurrence  was 
reported in only 1 (< 1%) of all Bridion subjects. 
Anaesthetic complication 
This PT includes verbatim descriptions such as movement (of a limb or the body) or coughing during 
the anaesthetic procedure or  during  surgery,  grimacing,  or  suckling  on the endotracheal tube.  In  the 
Phase  1-3  trials  with  a  placebo  group, the incidence of  anaesthetic complication  in  Bridion  subjects 
(8%) was more than twice the incidence in placebo subjects (1%), and a dose trend was observed. This 
AE  was  not  observed  in  the  Phase  3  controlled  trials  19.4.301  and  19.4.302  in  which  Bridion  was 
compared to neostigmine.  
Anaesthetic  complication  was  judged  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  Bridion  in  about  1%  of  all 
Bridion subjects i.e., in about 40% of all subjects who experienced the AE, compared to neither of the 
2 placebo subjects with this AE. Most occurrences of anaesthetic complication were mild to moderate; 
severe  occurrences  were  reported  in  only  2  (<  1%)  of  all  Bridion  subjects.  This  AE  occurred 
predominantly in trials in which Bridion was administered while anaesthesia was continued, and could 
have been caused by the fact that when removing one of the pillars of balanced anaesthesia the level of 
anaesthesia might not have been deep enough. 
Delayed recovery from anaesthesia 
This  description  includes  terms  such  as  delayed  awakening  from  anaesthesia  or  extended  recovery 
from  anaesthesia.  In  Phase  1-3  trials  with  a  placebo  group,  the  incidence  of  delayed  recovery  from 
anaesthesia was 1% in Bridion subjects and 0% in placebo subjects. There was a low overall number 
of  delayed  recovery  from  anaesthesia  (n=5).  This  AE  was  not  observed  in  the  controlled  trials 
19.4.301  and  19.4.302  in  which  Bridion  was  compared  to  neostigmine.  Delayed  recovery  from 
anaesthesia  led  to  the  discontinuation  of  1  of  the  5  Bridion  subjects.  It  was  judged  to  be  related  to 
treatment with Bridion. All occurrences were mild to moderate in intensity. 
Unwanted awareness during anaesthesia 
The  descriptions  included  “awareness  during  anaesthesia”  and  “awake”  during  anaesthesia.  Two 
Bridion subjects but none in the placebo subjects experienced unwanted awareness during anaesthesia. 
Both  occurrences  were  mild  in  intensity,  and  one  was  considered  to  be  related  to  treatment  with 
Bridion  (16  mg/kg)  by  the  investigator.  The  related  event  occurred  in  one  subject  and  led  to  the 
subject’s discontinuation from the trial. The related AE started 26 minutes after Bridion administration 
and lasted one minute. 
Residual blockade or reoccurrence of the block 
The AE prolonged neuromuscular block, which includes verbatim terms of reoccurrence of blockade, 
residual  blockade,  insufficient  curarization,  and  delayed  recovery  from  neuromuscular  block,  was 
reported in 6 (< 1%) Bridion subjects overall and in no placebo subjects, and 4 (5%) neostigmine with 
vecuronium  subjects  in  the  Phase  3  controlled  studies  19.4.301  and  19.4.302.  All  occurrences  were 
mild to moderate in intensity. This AE was considered to be treatment-related by the investigator in 3 
of  the  6  Bridion  subjects  and  in  2  of  the  4  neostigmine  with  vecuronium  subjects  and  it  led  to  the 
discontinuation of one Bridion subject. 
47/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  total  of  24  total  Bridion  subjects  (NMBA  was  rocuronium,  vecuronium,  or  pancuronium)  had 
evidence  of  reoccurrence  of  blockade  or  residual  blockade  based  on  the  TOF  Watch®  SX 
measurements during the period of neuromuscular monitoring. Four of the 24 Bridion subjects and an 
additional 2 Bridion subjects had clinical evidence of reoccurrence of blockade or residual blockade at 
recovery. 
In  the  pooled  Phase  1-3  studies  with  a  placebo  group,  where  the  NMBA  was  rocuronium  or 
vecuronium and where doses of Bridion ranged from < 2 mg/kg to 16 mg/kg, 11 (2%) Bridion subjects 
and  no  placebo  subject  had  evidence  of  reoccurrence  of  blockade  or  residual  blockade  during  the 
period  of  neuromuscular  monitoring.  In  these  studies,  a  higher  percentage  of  Bridion  subjects  had 
evidence  of  reoccurrence  of  blockade  or  residual  blockade  during  neuromuscular  monitoring  after 
receiving  vecuronium  (4%)  than  after  receiving  rocuronium  (1%).  One  of  the  11  Bridion  subjects 
(rocuronium and 0.5 mg/kg Bridion) also had clinical evidence of reoccurrence of blockade or residual 
blockade at recovery, described as being unable to lift her head for more than 3 sec upon arrival in the 
recovery room. 
Population PK-PD model investigating the re-use situation 
To address clinical questions such as the clinical situation during which rocuronium would be required 
for reintubation following a previous administration of Bridion, the re-use situation, the applicant has 
used PK-PD simulations. 
No  formal  clinical  study  has  been  conducted  evaluating  the  reuse  situation  of  rocuronium.  For  the 
reuse of vecuronium neither clinical study nor a simulation has been performed. 
On  the  basis  of  the  PK-PD  simulation  the  applicant  initially  proposed  a  table  to  be  included  in  the 
SPC,  with  recommended  waiting  times  after  different  Bridion  doses,  for  the  readministration  of 
rocuronium and vecuronium in patients with normal renal function and impaired renal function. This 
was  not  considered  acceptable  as  the  risk  for  misinterpretations  and  dosing  errors  was  imminent. 
Following  the  responses  to  the  LoQ  a  waiting  time  of  24  hours  is  recommended  in  the  SPC  if 
re-administration  of  rocuronium  or  vecuronium  is  required.  If  neuromuscular  blockade  is  required 
before the recommended waiting time has passed, a nonsteroidal neuromuscular blocking agent should 
be used. 
Immunological events 
Only one dermatitis contact (< 1% Bridion, 0% placebo), occurred in Phase 1-3 studies in the  placebo 
group.  Two  hypersensitivity  reactions  to  Bridion  (1%  Bridion,  0%  placebo),  occurred  in  the  pooled 
Phase  I  studies  where  subjects  were  not  under  anaesthesia  and  received  no  NMBA.  This  AE  was 
reported in two subjects in trial 19.4.105 who received 32 mg/kg Bridion.  
None of the allergic reactions (dermatitis contact, pruritus allergic, drug hypersensitivity, transfusion 
reaction, or hypersensitivity) were SAEs or led to the discontinuation of the trial. However, one phase 
1  subject  had  a  documented  hypersensitivity  reaction  to  Bridion.  This  subject  discontinued  the 
infusion  of  Bridion  due  to  multiple  AEs  including  paraesthesia,  tachycardia,  nausea,  palpitations, 
stomach discomfort, dysgeusia, visual disturbances, flushing, and rash erythematous. A slight increase 
in serum tryptase, suggestive of possible allergic reaction aetiology was found. As a follow-up, skin 
and intracutaneous tests were conducted. This subject fulfilled the criteria for a sensitive subject in the 
skin prick test.  
Since this was the first exposure to Bridion, it was thought that this subject was probably sensitized to 
Bridion  by  previous  exposure  to  another  compound  with  structural  resemblance.  The  possibility  of 
cross sensitization between Bridion and betalactam antibiotics was considered. The subject showed no 
sensitization to beta-lactam antibiotics in this test. 
Another subject experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to Bridion in the thorough QTc trial 19.4.105. 
This trial was conducted with two doses of Bridion, 4 mg/kg and 32 mg/kg. During the last period of 
this  trial,  female  subject  with  known  allergy  to  penicillin  since  showed  signs  of  a  hypersensitivity 
48/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reaction.  Approximately  1  min  after  start  of  infusion  of  32  mg/kg  Bridion,  the  subject  developed 
paraesthesia in arms and legs, feeling of warmth in arms and legs, dizziness, feeling of narrow throat, 
breathing  difficulties,  tachycardia,  and  flushing.  These  symptoms  lasted for  one  to  two  minutes  and 
resolved with no treatment. All vital signs measured within the following 12 min were within normal 
limits.  Approximately  1.5  hr  after  start  of  infusion  the  subject  developed  a  rash  on  both  forearms, 
which  lasted  approximately  1.25  hr  and  disappeared  without  treatment.  Her  serum  total  IgE  was 
measured  and  was  found  to  be  within  normal  limits.  Before  this  period,  the  subject  experienced 
diarrhoea, single pustules on the breast, back and face, and itching after the previous administration of 
4  mg/kg  Bridion.  In  the  other  periods  the  subject  showed  no  signs  that  might  be  the  result  of  a 
hypersensitivity reaction.  
Four other subjects in trial 19.4.105 also showed signs of possible hypersensitivity to Bridion. These 
alleged hypersensitivity reactions could have been caused by materials used during the procedure (e.g., 
latex,  infusion  lines,  placebo)  or  the  trial  medication  Bridion.  Also  a  cross  sensitivity  between 
antibiotics and Bridion can not be ruled 
In  conclusion,  a  total  of  seven  subjects  in  the  clinical  trials  were  identified  with  clinical  symptoms 
which  may  have  been  indicative  for  hypersensitivity  to  Bridion.  Two  cases  of  positive  intradermal 
testing to Bridion have been identified. According to the Applicant, the other test may indicate a false 
positive outcome but this could be excluded by a negative control (saline solution) in the intradermal 
test.  At  present  there  is  no  indication  from  clinical  data  or  from  literature  for  cross  sensitization  by 
other cyclodextrins or by antibiotics with structural similarity with Bridion. Pharmacovigilance will be 
required for detection of rare adverse events such as hypersensitivity reactions. 
  Serious adverse events (SAE)/deaths/other significant events 
Of a total of 135 SAEs in all the clinical trials, 122 occurred after the administration of the product. 
There  were  no  deaths  (and  not  in  the  ongoing  studies  either),  and  only  8  SAEs  were  considered 
related,  by  both the  investigator  and  Organon.    One SAE  occurred in a  placebo-treated  patient. The 
remaining  SAEs  were  3  cases  of  QT-interval  prolonged  (+  one  after  placebo),  hypotension, 
breathlessness  on  day  after  the  administration,  and  two  cases  of  bronchospasm.  The  case  of 
hypotension occurred 5-10 minutes after the administration of the IP, and 2-5 minutes after a propofol 
and  fentanyl  bolus.  The  patient  suffering  from  hypotension  was  later  diagnosed  to  have  respiratory 
failure  and  atrial  fibrillation.  The  patients,  who  experienced  bronchospasms,  when  extubated,  had 
asthma in their medical history; the bronchospasms were thought to mostly relate to that, and also to 
the extubation itself. 
A  similar  percentage  of  Bridion  subjects  (6%)  and  placebo  subjects  (4%)  experienced  at  least  one 
SAE. Those SAEs that occurred in more than one subject per group included electrocardiogram QT 
corrected  (2%  15  subjects  with  Bridion  and  1%  2  subjects  with  placebo)  and  small  intestinal 
perforation (< 1%, 2 subjects with Bridion, and no placebo subject). Due to the relatively low number 
of SAEs, it is difficult to judge whether the incidence of SAEs was influenced by the type of NMBA 
used. All SAEs of electrocardiogram QT corrected (in both treatment groups) are only in subjects who 
received rocuronium because ECGs were not recorded in the three trials that used vecuronium as the 
NMBA (19.4.207, 19.4.208A, and 19.4.208B).  
One subject suffered from cardiac arrest after administration of Bridion. A severe oculocardiac reflex, 
due to pressure of the eye bulbus during the surgery was considered to be the reason for asystole. The 
subject recovered from the SAE. 
In  a  small,  uncontrolled  study,  the  Bridion  with  pancuronium  group  experienced  SAEs  in  2  (11%) 
subjects,  which  included  abdominal  abscess,  candidiasis,  and  small  intestinal  perforation.  None  was 
considered related to the trial medication per the investigator. 
Related (judged by the investigator) SAEs were reported in 1% of each treatment group (in 4 Bridion 
subjects, and in 1 placebo subject). In each of these cases, the sponsor judged the SAE to be unlikely 
related Bridion or not related to placebo medication.  
49/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 1-3 trials, Bridion vs. Neostigmine 
In the controlled Phase 3 trials 19.4.301 and 19.4.302, the incidence of SAEs was similar for Bridion 
(3%) and neostigmine (4%). Serious adverse events most frequently (incidence ≥ 2%) were found in 
the  injury,  poisoning,  and  procedural  complications  class  (2%  Bridion,  2%  neostigmine)  and  in  the 
gastrointestinal  disorders  class  (2%  Bridion,  0%  placebo).    Individual  SAEs  most  often  occurred  in 
only  one  subject  in  a  treatment  group.  Only  two,  post  procedural  haemorrhage  and  procedural 
complication, occurred in more than one subject per group. 
Due to the relatively low number of SAEs, it is difficult to judge whether the incidence of SAEs was 
influenced by the type of NMBA administered. None of the SAEs in these trials was considered to be 
related to the trial medication by the investigator.  
Phase 1 trials 
There were no SAEs in the Phase 1 trials. 
There  were  few  cases  where  the  recovery  was  slow,  or  there  was  evidence  of  re-occurrence  of 
neuromuscular blockade, mostly, but not entirely, in patients treated with doses <2 mg/kg.  Two of the 
cases  occurred  with  2  mg/kg,  and  2  patients  in  the  group  16mg/kg,  but  without  any  clinical  signs. 
Theoretically a re-occurrence can happen also because of replacement interaction. 
Phase 1 - 3 Dose Response 
Overall, 6% of all subjects exposed to any dose of Bridion with a NMBA (rocuronium, vecuronium, or 
pancuronium) experienced at least one SAE. No dose response was apparent for the overall incidence 
of SAEs. The overall incidence of SAEs was 7% in the 2 mg/kg group, 5% in the 4 mg/kg group, and 
5%  in  the  16  mg/kg  group.  Related  SAEs  (in  the  investigator’s  opinion)  were  reported  in  7  Total 
Bridion subjects (in < 1% of the Total Bridion group). In each of these cases, the sponsor judged the 
SAE to be unlikely related.  
The related (per the investigator) SAEs in Bridion subjects included the following:  
  Electrocardiogram QT corrected interval prolonged (one 2 mg/kg subject and one 4 mg/kg 
subject), 
  Bronchospasm (two 4 mg/kg subjects), 
  Electrocardiogram QT prolonged (one 4 mg/kg subject), 
  Respiratory failure (one < 2 mg/kg subject), 
  Hypotension (one 3 mg/kg subject), and 
  Atrial fibrillation (one < 2 mg/kg subject). 
  Laboratory findings 
In general there were no major findings in laboratory values or vital signs. In response to the LoQ the 
Applicant has provided data on biomarkers of renal proximal tubular toxicity and haemostasis. These 
as  well  as  the  clinical  data  available  do  not  indicate  association  of  Bridion  with  renal  damage  or 
haemostatic complications.   
  Safety in special populations 
Paediatric patients 
Trial 19.4.306 was a Phase 3 trial to explore the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of Bridion in 
paediatric  and  adult  subjects.  A  total  of  91  subjects  (8  infants,  24  children,  31  adolescents,  and  28 
adults) received a single, bolus, intravenous dose of Bridion (0.5, 1, 2, or 4 mg/kg) or placebo. Bridion 
was well tolerated by both paediatric and adult subjects. There were no readily apparent differences in 
the safety profile of Bridion among the age groups. There were no deaths or discontinuations due to an 
AE in any age group. Major safety findings for each age group are summarized below. 
Infants & toddlers (28 days old - 23 months old): 6 Bridion, 2 placebo 
A total of 7 of 8 infants (89%) experienced at least one treatment-emergent AE; 5 of 6 (83%) Bridion 
subjects and 2 of 2 (100%) placebo subjects. There was no dose response for the overall incidence of 
AEs  (two 0.5  mg/kg  subjects, one  1  mg/kg  subject, one  2  mg/kg  subject, one 4  mg/kg  subject).  No 
infant experienced an AE of severe intensity.  
50/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently reported AE was vomiting in two (33%) Bridion subjects and one (50%) placebo 
subject).  The  remaining  AEs  were  each  reported  in  one  subject,  and  included  gastroenteritis  viral, 
nasopharyngitis,  and  hypoglycaemia  in  Bridion  subjects,  and  pyrexia,  rhinitis,  and  procedural 
complication in placebo subjects.  
There  was  one  investigator-reported  drug-related  AE,  and  a  procedural  complication  in  a  placebo 
subject,  that  was  described  as  “bradycardia  2  min  after  IP  injection  (surgery  related)  (e.g.  vagal 
stimulation)”. One SAE was reported, for 0.5 mg/kg Bridion subject (vomiting for three days in the 
post-operative period, coded to PT gastroenteritis viral). The subject recovered, and the SAE was not 
related  to  the  trial  medication  according  to  the  investigator.  The  0.5  mg/kg  subject  with  the  AE  of 
hypoglycaemia had a markedly abnormal value for fasting serum glucose value of 1.39 mmol/L during 
the 60 min post-dose assessment. 
Children (2-11 years old):  20 Bridion, 4 placebo 
A total of 15 of 24 children (63%) experienced at least one AE; 12 of 20 (60%) Bridion subjects, and 3 
of 4 (75%) placebo subjects. There was no dose response for the overall incidence of AEs (four 0.5 
mg/kg  subjects,  two  1  mg/kg  subjects,  two  2  mg/kg  subjects,  four  4  mg/kg  subjects).  Two  children 
experienced an AE of severe intensity (one subject in the 0.5 mg/kg Bridion group, and one subject in 
the 4.0 mg/kg Bridion dose group).  
The most frequently reported AEs included vomiting 9 Bridion subjects (45%), and 2 placebo subjects 
(50%), and procedural pain six (30%) Bridion subjects, and 1 placebo subject (25%). The remaining 
AEs occurred only in Bridion subjects and included constipation, pain, and anaemia postoperative in 
two (10%) subjects each, and nausea, gastroenteritis viral, anxiety, dysuria, urinary retention, scrotal 
oedema, and pruritus in one (5%) subject each.  
There was one investigator-reported drug-related AE, mild vomiting in a 2 mg/kg Bridion subject. One 
SAE was reported, for one subject who received 4 mg/kg Bridion (diarrhoea, haematuria with vesical 
clots, fever, weight loss, and oliguria, coded to PT gastroenteritis viral). The subject recovered, and the 
SAE  was  judged  as  not  related  to  the  trial  medication  according  to  the  investigator.  One  4  mg/kg 
subject with the AE of anaemia postoperative had a markedly abnormal value for haemoglobin on the 
morning of the post-operative day (value of 9.4 g/dL, safety range: 9.5 - 20 g/dL). 
Adolescents (12-17 years old): 25 Bridion, 6 placebo 
A total of 21 of 31 adolescents (68%) experienced at least one AE; 16 of 25 (64%) Bridion subjects 
and 5 of 6 (83%) placebo subjects. There was no dose response for the overall incidence of AEs (three 
0.5  mg/kg  subjects,  three  1  mg/kg  subjects,  five  2  mg/kg  subjects,  five  4  mg/kg  subjects).  One 
adolescent subject (in the placebo group) experienced an AE of severe intensity.  
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  included  procedural  pain  in  11  Bridion  subjects  (44%)  and  in  3 
placebo subjects (50%), vomiting in 6 Bridion subjects (24%) and in 3  placebo subjects (50%), and 
nausea  in  5  Bridion  subjects  (20%),  and  1  placebo  subject  (17%).  The  remaining  AEs  were  each 
reported  in  one  subject.  These  included  pharyngitis,  postoperative  fever,  procedural  hypotension, 
oxygen saturation decreased, muscle spasms, pain in extremity, dizziness, headache, paraesthesia, and 
hot  flush  in  Bridion  subjects,  and  post  procedural  complication,  hypoaesthesia,  and  excitability  in 
placebo subjects.  
There were four AEs considered to be drug-related by the investigator. These were vomiting (2 ml/kg 
Bridion), muscle spasms (0.5 mg/kg Bridion), paraesthesia (1 mg/kg Bridion), and hot flush (2 mg/kg 
Bridion). No SAEs occurred in this age group.  
Adults (18-65 years old: 22 Bridion, 6 placebo) 
A total of 16 of 28 adults (57%) experienced at least one AE; 13 of 22 (59%) Bridion subjects, and 3 
of  6  (50%)  placebo  subjects.  There  was  no  dose  response  for  the  overall  incidence  of  AEs  one  0.5 
mg/kg subject, five 1 mg/kg subjects, four 2 mg/kg subjects, three 4 mg/kg subjects. One adult subject 
in the placebo group experienced an AE of severe intensity.  
51/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently reported AEs were procedural pain in 5 Bridion subjects (23%) and in 1 placebo 
subject  (17%),  pruritus  generalized  in  2  Bridion  subjects  (9%)  and  in  1  placebo  subject  (17%),  and 
constipation in 1 Bridion subject (5%) and in 1 placebo subject (17%). The remaining AEs were each 
reported  in  one subject. These included  hyperthermia,  pyrexia,  ankle  fracture, haematuria  traumatic, 
wrist  fracture,  decreased  appetite,  hyperglycaemia,  hyperkinesia,  anxiety,  and  sleep  disorder  in 
Bridion subjects, and pain in one placebo subject.  
One AE was considered to be drug-related by the investigator; this was decreased appetite in 2 mg/kg 
subject. No SAEs occurred in this age group. The 4 mg/kg subject with the AE of hyperglycaemia had 
markedly abnormal values for fasting serum glucose measured during the baseline, 60 min post-dose 
assessment, and the post-trial assessment. All reported values were above the upper limit of the safety 
range. 
Overall,  the  product  seems  to  be  well  tolerated  by  the  paediatric  patients.  However,  the  number  of 
patients  studied  is  rather  small.  More  data  are  expected  as  the  Applicant  submitted  a  Paediatric 
Investigation Plan in January 2008.   
Patients with renal insufficiency 
Subjects  with  normal  or  impaired  renal  function  were  studied  because  Bridion  is  predominantly 
cleared via the kidneys; therefore, renal impairment would be expected to increase subjects’ exposure 
to Bridion and the NMBA. In Trial 19.4.304, renally-impaired subjects had a prolonged and 17-fold 
higher  exposure  to  Bridion  and  a  prolonged  and  4-fold  higher  exposure  to  rocuronium  compared  to 
subjects  with  normal  renal  function.  Nonetheless,  the  safety  profiles  between  subjects  with  normal 
renal  function  vs.  subjects  with  impaired  renal  function  were  not  appreciably  different.  This  is  an 
important  finding  despite  the  fact  that  effective  dialysis  (using  a  high  flux  filter)  of  Bridion  and 
rocuronium  was  not  consistently  demonstrated  in  Trial  19.4.304.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to 
further investigate in patients with severe renal impairment and/or dialysis in the clinical trials studies 
19.4.328 & 19.4.333 as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008.  
Re-occurrence of neuromuscular blockade was not observed in study 19.4.304, in which 15 subjects 
with impaired renal function (CR  CL <30 ml/min) received 2.0 mg/kg Bridion. The Applicant argues 
that  based  on  pharmacokinetics  of  Bridion  and  rocuronium,  no  additional  risk  of  reoccurrence  of 
blockade is expected in patients with severe renal insufficiency. The two clinical studies (19.4.328 and 
19.44.333) planned will bring more information on the safety of Bridion in subjects with severe renal 
impairment. Currently the use of Bridion in patients with severe renal impairment is not recommended 
in  the  SPC.  The  metabolism  and  elimination  of  Bridion  in  patients  undergoing  haemodialysis  or 
peritoneal  dialysis  is  unclear.  The  Applicant  has  committed  to  study  if  Bridion  can  be  removed  by 
dialysis  or  other  techniques  in  ICU  patients  (study  protocol  19.4.333)  as  stated  in  their  letter  of 
undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
Patients with cardiac or pulmonary diseases 
Overall, Bridion (at doses of 2.0 mg.kg-1 or 4.0 mg.kg-1) was shown to be both safe (and effective) in 
reversing  a  rocuronium-induced  NMB  when  administered  at  the  reappearance  of  T2  in  subjects 
diagnosed with or without a history of pulmonary complication(s) or cardiac complication(s). 
The paediatric, renally impaired, pulmonary impaired and cardiac patient populations are too limited 
that conclusions of the safety of Bridion can be made.  
Bridion  seems  to  cause  hypotension  in  renally  impaired  patient  population,  bronchospasms  in 
pulmonary  impaired  patient  and  QTc  interval  prolongations  in  cardiac  patients.  The  QTc  interval 
prolongation is discussed earlier in this assessment report. 
The applicant was requested to clarify whether Bridion predisposes the patients to increased bleeding, 
also in these special patient populations. From non-clinical safety studies there is no indication of an 
increased risk for bleeding. Apart from non-clinical studies, haemostatic factors such as the laboratory 
parameters APTT and PT have not been studied in clinical trials. In order to get an indication whether 
52/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there are clinically relevant effects of Bridion on haemostatis, an analysis on relevant adverse events in 
clinical  Phase  2-3  placebo-controlled  studies  was  made.  The  combined  rate  for  all  types  of 
haemorrhages in Bridion treated subjects was 5.7% (n = 649) and in placebo group 3.1% (n = 130). 
None of the individual AEs had a reporting rate of more than 1%. When limited to the more specific 
terms  for  surgery  related  bleedings,  (Incision  site  haemorrhage,  Post  procedural  haemorrhage, 
Haemorrhage  and  Operative  Haemorrhage)  the  combined  incidence  was  2.8%  in  the  total  Bridion 
group.  This  is  comparable  to  the  2.3%  in  the  placebo  group  (no  statistically  significant  difference). 
These rates are in line with the incidence of post-operative bleeding as reported in literature (0.2% - 
4.7%). There appears to be no indication of clinically relevant effects of Bridion on haemostasis or for 
a  haemolytic  effect  of  Bridion.  The  effect  of  Bridion  on  coagulation  will  be  further  investigated  in 
study 19.4.115 (CTA submitted Jan 2008) as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
Although  the  frequency  of  bleeding  complications  in  the  placebo  and  Bridion  are  comparable,  the 
Applicant’s initiative for a clinical trial to further investigate the effects of Bridion on in vitro tests and 
in vivo was supported.  
  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Effect of concomitant magnesium and antibiotics on adverse events incidence was explored: 
intravenous magnesium (which can potentiate neuromuscular blockade); and  
 
  perioperative antibiotics (which can potentiate neuromuscular blockade). 
The  main  purpose  of  this  exploratory  analysis  was  to  compare  the  incidence  of  AEs  suggestive  of 
reoccurrence  of  blockade  or  residual  blockade  in  subjects  who  did  and  did  not  receive  these 
concomitant medications.  
Phase 1 – 3 trials 
For  the  Phase  1-3  trials, the  analysis  focuses  on the largest  Bridion  group (N=1713) to  increase the 
possibility  of  detecting  a  difference  between  those  who  did  and  did  not  receive  the  concomitant 
medication.  The  data  for  the  placebo  and  neostigmine  groups  do  not  contribute  significantly  to  this 
exploratory  analysis.  These  groups  are  very  small  (N=140  placebo,  N=167  neostigmine)  in 
comparison to the Total Bridion group. 
Of  the  1713  subjects  who  received  Bridion  plus  an  NMBA,  the  following  numbers  of  subjects 
received or did not receive intravenous magnesium, or perioperative antibiotics: 
Intravenous magnesium: 67 yes, 1646 no and 
 
  Perioperative antibiotics: 236 yes, 1477 no. 
The AE neuromuscular block prolonged did not occur more frequently in subjects who received these 
concomitant medications compared to those who did not receive them: 
 
Intravenous magnesium: 0 (0%) yes, 6 (< 1%) no; 
  Perioperative antibiotics: 1 (< 1%) yes, 5 (< 1%) no. 
In  addition,  only  one  of  the  24  subjects  who  experienced  reoccurrence  of  blockade  or  residual 
blockade  -  subject  204104007,  who  received  intravenous  magnesium  at  a  dose  level  known  to 
interfere with NMBAs as well as cefazolin sodium.  
Also, concomitant antibiotics were recorded for only 7 of the 24 subjects. Six of the subjects received 
cephalosporins and two received penicillins. Potential drug interactions with Bridion were identified 
by the investigators in three subjects. Each of these subjects received 2 mg/kg Bridion. After careful 
consideration,  the  sponsor  concluded  that  these  reported  potential  interactions  were  not  clinically 
relevant.  
Phase 1 trials 
An integrated analysis was not performed for the pooled phase 1 trials because these subjects did not 
receive an NMBA, and because concomitant medication use was generally prohibited. From extensive 
nonclinical  trials,  it  was  concluded  that  no  clinically  relevant  interactions  (either  complexation  and 
subsequent altered pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics, or displacement of the NMBA) would be 
expected  with  several  drugs  which  are  used  during  anaesthesia  or  during  emergency  treatment.  In 
53/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
addition,  from  the  toxicology  trials  there  were  no  indications  suggesting  that  the  potential 
complexation of endogenous molecules resulted in adverse effects. Nevertheless, for most studies the 
investigators were asked to record potential drug interactions with Bridion in the CRF (Case Report 
Form).  
  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Phase 1 - 3 trials, Bridion vs. placebo 
One (< 1%) Bridion subject (with rocuronium) and no placebo subject withdrew from a trial due to an 
AE (unwanted awareness during anaesthesia). The investigator considered this AE related to the trial 
medication. No subject who received Bridion and pancuronium withdrew from the trial due to an AE. 
Phase 1 - 3 trials, Bridion vs. neostigmine 
One  (<  1%)  neostigmine  subject  (with  rocuronium)  withdrew  from  a  trial  due  to  multiple  AEs  that 
were  considered  to  be  unrelated  to  the  trial  medication  by  the  investigator.  No  Bridion  subject 
withdrew from a trial due to an AE. 
Phase 1 - 3, dose response studies 
Four (< 1%) of all subjects who received Bridion and a NMBA withdrew from a trial due to an AE. 
Two subjects were in the <2 mg/kg group, one was in the 4 mg/kg group, and one was in the 16 mg/kg 
group. The most frequent AE leading to trial discontinuation was prolonged neuromuscular block (2 
subjects in the <2 mg/kg group). Adverse events leading to trial discontinuation that were considered 
by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  treatment  with  Bridion  included  unwanted  awareness  during 
anaesthesia (one 16 mg/kg subject) and neuromuscular block prolonged (one < 2 mg/kg subject).  
Phase 1 Trials 
Trial 19.4.108: The infusion of the trial medication (Bridion) was not discontinued in any subject, and 
no subject withdrew from the trial due to an AE. 
In the subset of pooled Phase 1 trials, the concept of ‘discontinuation of trial medication due to AE’ is 
applicable only to the trials 19.4.105 and 19.4.106 in which the trial medication was infused over 2 
minutes and 5 minutes (respectively). Other data presented in this section represent subject withdrawal 
from the trial due to an AE. 
Bridion vs. Placebo and Pooled Phase 1 Dose Response 
Three (1%) Total Bridion subjects and no placebo subject discontinued a trial due to an AE. All AEs 
resolved without treatment, and were considered to be related to the administration of Bridion by both 
the investigator and the sponsor. This AE is discussed further under “allergic reaction”  
In conclusion, a limited number of discontinuations due to the AEs were reported. Bridion seems to be 
rather well tolerated. 
  Post marketing experience 
There is currently no post marketing experience with Bridion. 
  Discussion on clinical safety 
Bridion seems to be well tolerated in the studied patient population. The most common adverse events 
were procedural pain, injection site complications, and postoperative nausea. In Phase 1 studies, the 
volunteers studied complained about injection site irritation and dysgeusia. 
The  anaesthetic  complications  include  movement  (of  a  limb  or  the  body)  or  coughing  during  the 
anaesthetic  procedure  or  during  surgery,  grimacing,  or  suckling  on  the  endotracheal  tube,  airway 
complication  in  anaesthesia,  delayed  recovery,  unwanted  awareness  during  anaesthesia.  Awareness 
during anaesthesia occurred in two patients, and caused one patient to discontinue the study.  
The incidence of anaesthetic complications in the Phase 1-3 trials (with a placebo group) in Bridion 
subjects (8%) was higher than the incidence in placebo subjects (1%), and a dose trend was observed. 
This AE was not observed in the Phase 3 controlled trials 19.4.301 and 19.4.302 in which Bridion was 
54/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared to neostigmine. Signs of inadequate anaesthesia were movement during anaesthesia/surgery 
and  sucking  the  endotracheal  tube.  In  response  to the  LoQ, the  Applicant  has evaluated all  cases  of 
anaesthetic complications and it was concluded that the cases can be considered as inadequate (light) 
anaesthesia  or  were  associated  with  immediate  reversal  at  recovery  to  a  TOF-ratio  of  0.9,  i.e.  at 
restoration of neuromuscular blocking function. 
The QTc interval prolongation is of concern. Abnormally prolonged QTc interval may lead to torsades 
des pointes, a life threatening arrhythmia. There were significant prolongations in the QTc interval in 
all of the Phase 1-3 studies. Especially, the use of sevoflurane increased the incidence of abnormally 
long QTc intervals but prolongations were also observed with the use of propofol. Follow up measures 
on QT prolongation are planned and the applicant has committed to provide detailed evaluation of the 
QTc  prolongations  reported  as  SAEs  in  the  clinical  trials  -    particularly  related  to  concomitant 
administered  drugs  (sevoflurane,  propofol),  as  a  post-authorisation  commitment,  as  stated  in  their 
letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. The Applicant should also closely follow and report the QTc 
interval prolongations in PSURs.  
In addition, the suspected cases of re-occurrence of neuromuscular blockade have been evaluated in 
detail  following  the  responses  to  the  LoQ.  It  was  concluded  that  the  risk  of  reoccurrence  at  doses 
recommended is very low and adequate warnings have been included in the SPC. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative  requirements  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a 
qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of 
any adverse reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country..    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Important identified risks 
Safety concern  
Delayed onset time or 
insufficient neuromuscular 
blockade at re-treatment with 
steroidal neuromuscular 
blocking agent  
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
  Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that if re-administration with 
rocuronium or vecuronium is 
required after reversal with 
sugammadex, waiting time of 24 
hours is recommended. 
  Warning in Section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that if neuromuscular blockade is 
required before the recommended 
waiting time has passed, a non-
steroidal neuromuscular blocking 
agent should be used. 
55/59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neuromuscular block 
prolonged (Delayed recovery) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Re-occurrence of 
neuromuscular blockade 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
56/59 
  Section 4.2 of the SmPC  
recommends the use of appropriate 
neuromuscular monitoring and 
includes detailed dosing information 
for routine and immediate reversal, 
depending on level of blockade. 
  Section 4.2 of the SmPC indicates 
that reversal may be delayed in 
elderly but that no dose adjustment is 
required. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that conditions associated with 
prolonged circulation time or 
oedematous state may be associated 
with longer recovery time. 
  Warning in section 4.5 of the SmPC 
that for toremifene, some 
displacement of vecuronium or 
rocuronium from the complex with 
sugammadex could occur.  
  Warning in section 4.5 of SmPC that 
a high dose of flucloxacillin 
(infusion of 500 mg or more) or 
fusidic acid might cause some 
displacement of rocuronium or 
vecuronium from sugammadex.  
  Section 4.2 of the SmPC 
recommends the use of appropriate 
neuromuscular monitoring and 
includes detailed dosing information 
for routine and immediate reversal, 
depending on level of blockade. 
  Section 4.2 of the SmPC regarding 
re-occurrence of blockade post-
operatively and recommending a 
repeat dose of sugammadex. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC that 
ventilatory support is mandatory for 
patients until adequate spontaneous 
respiration is restored following 
reversal of neuromuscular blockade.  
  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC that 
in clinical trials a re-occurrence of 
neuromuscular blockade was 
reported  along with details of 
prevention. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that when drugs which potentiate 
neuromuscular blockade are used in 
the post-operative period, special 
attention should be paid to the 
possibility of re-occurrence of 
blockade.  
 
Important identified risks 
Safety concern  
Re-occurrence of 
neuromuscular blockade 
(continued) 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Anesthetic complication / 
Light anesthesia 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Use of sugammadex in 
patients with renal impairment 
Conduct two studies in 
severe renal impaired 
patients. One study in 
ICU patients to 
investigate the dialysis of 
sugammadex and one 
study to investigate the 
safety after 4 mg/kg 
sugammadex. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
  Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
regarding displacement of 
rocuronium or vecuronium and the 
requirement for monitoring.   
  Warning in section 4.5 of the SmPC 
that a high dose of flucloxacillin 
(infusion of 500 mg or more) or 
fusidic acid might cause some 
displacement of rocuronium or 
vecuronium from sugammadex.  
  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC that 
when neuromuscular blockade was 
reversed intentionally in the middle 
of anaesthesia in clinical trials, signs 
of light anaesthesia were noted 
occasionally  
 
Information in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC concerning mild and 
moderate renal impairment  
  Warning in section 4.4 in the SmPC 
regarding use in patients with severe 
renal failure  
  Warning in section 4.4 in the SmPC 
regarding re-administration with 
neuromuscular blocking agents in 
patients with mild to moderate 
impaired renal function  
 Important potential risks 
Safety concern  
Drug hypersensitivity 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Capturing Interactions  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
57/59 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
  Contraindication in section 4.3 when 
the patient has a hypersensitivity to 
the active substance or to any of the 
excipients. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC that 
clinicians should be prepared for the 
possibility of these reactions and 
take the necessary precautions 
  Allergic-like reactions labelled in 
section  4.8 of the SmPC  
  Warning in section 4.5 of SmPC  
regarding interactions with 
progestogens and estrogens and 
effects on contraception. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of SmPC that 
certain drugs could become less 
 
Displacement interactions  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
 
effective due to a lowering of the 
(free) plasma concentrations.  
Information in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC that in the exceptional 
situation of re-occurrence of 
blockade post-operatively a repeat 
dose of sugammadex is 
recommended. 
  Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC 
that rocuronium or vecuronium could 
be displaced and the requirement for 
monitoring. Warning in section 4.5 
of  
 Important potential risks 
Safety concern  
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Displacement interactions 
(continued) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
SmPC that a high dose of 
flucloxacillin (infusion of 500 mg or 
more) and intravenous 
administration of fusidic acid might 
cause some displacement of 
rocuronium or vecuronium and the 
requirement for monitoring.   
  Warning in section 4.5 of the SmPC 
that for toremifene, some 
displacement of vecuronium or 
rocuronium could occur.  
 Important missing data 
Safety concern  
Effect on values for laboratory 
parameters of blood 
coagulation time (aPTT, PT 
(inr), PT) 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Exposure in infants and 
neonates 
Studies in paediatric 
patients 
Exposure in pregnancy 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Excretion of sugammadex in 
human milk 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
58/59 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
Information in section 4.5 of the SmPC 
that sugammadex does in general not 
interfere with laboratory tests with the 
possible exception of some coagulation 
parameters [aPTT, PT and PT(inr )] 
 
 
 
Information in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC on dose recommendations for 
children and adolescents (2-17 
years) 
Information in section 4.2 of the 
SmPC: use in neonates and infants is 
not recommended.  
In section 6.6 of the SmPC dilution 
recommendations for paediatric 
patients are given. 
Information in section 4.6 of the SPC 
Information in section 4.6 of the SPC 
 
2.6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In summary, the safety margins of the compound are wide from the toxicology  point of view. Non-
clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology have been adequately investigated.  
However at present, no conclusions regarding environmental risks can be made.  A number of issues 
remain to be addressed and the applicant has agreed to provide this information as a post-authorisation 
commitment, as stated in their letter of undertaking dated 28 May 2008. 
Efficacy 
The  Applicant  has  demonstrated  that  sugammadex  is  selective  for  steroidal  neuromuscular  blocking 
agents.  It  rapidly  encapsulates  free  steroidal  NMBA,  e.g.  rocuronium  and  vecuronium,  thereby 
preventing  their  pharmacological  actions  in  the  neuromuscular  junction  in  a  dose  depending  basic. 
Data 
> 
affinity 
vecuronium>>pancuronium. However, sugammadex does not reverse neuromuscular block induced by 
succinylcholine  or  benzylisoquinolium  compounds,  and  thus  anticholinesterases  are  needed  for 
reversal of benzylisoquinolone-induced NMB. 
sugammadex 
rocuronium 
indicates 
provided 
that 
the 
for 
of 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 have adequately addressed these.  
  User consultation 
The PL user consultation included in the original application is acceptable and no further PL testing is 
required. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
 routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
 
  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered consensus  
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Bridion  in  the  ’Reversal  of  neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by 
rocuronium or vecuronium’ was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
59/59 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
