MK-8616
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 8.0
PAGE 47
SUGAMMADEX
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
Summary of risk management plan for Bridion (sugammadex)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for sugammadex. The RMP details 
important risks of sugammadex, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about sugammadex 's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
Sugammadex’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how sugammadex should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Bridion should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
sugammadex 's RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
Sugammadex is authorised for the routine reversal of neuromuscular blockade (NMB) in 
adults, children and adolescents. Refer to the SmPC for the full indication. 
It contains sugammadex as the active substance and it is available as solution for injection 
(100 mg/mL) for administration as a single IV bolus at doses of 2 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg and 16 
mg/kg.  
Further information about the evaluation of sugammadex’s benefits can be found in
sugammadex’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:   
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bridion 
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Bridon, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Bridion 's risks, are outlined here after.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
SmPC addressed to healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging
MK-8616
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 8.0
PAGE 48
SUGAMMADEX
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the HCP can help to 
minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Bridion are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Bridion. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Not applicable. 
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of sugammadex. 
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for sugammadex.
