EMA/682063/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Brimica 
Genuair (aclidinium / formoterol fumarate dihydrate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Brimica Genuair, which details the measures 
to be taken in order to ensure that Brimica Genuair is used as safely as possible. For more information 
on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Brimica Genuair, which can be found on Brimica Genuair’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Brimica Genuair is a medicine used to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the airways and air sacs inside the lungs 
become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing. Symptoms of COPD usually develop over a 
number of years and can include breathlessness (especially after physical activity), persistent cough 
sometimes with mucus, wheezing, and frequent chest infections. The main cause of COPD is smoking. 
The disease is aggravated by bacterial and viral chest infections which cause exacerbations (flare-ups). 
Both exacerbations and chest infections can require admission to hospital and in some cases can lead 
to death.  
It is estimated that there are around 210 million people with COPD worldwide. Men are more often 
affected than women, and Europeans are more often affected than Asians and are particularly more 
affected than Africans. Generally, with increasing age, more people suffer from COPD. Less than 6% of 
people between the ages of 25-44 years suffer from mild and moderate COPD, while more than 40% of 
people in the age group of 75 years and older suffer from mild and moderate COPD.  
Summary of treatment benefits 
Brimica Genuair contains two active substances called aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate, which work by keeping the airways open and allowing the patient to breathe more easily. 
The two active substances are delivered directly into the lungs by a dry powder inhaler.  
One active substance, aclidinium bromide, is a ‘long-acting muscarinic antagonist’ (LAMA) and the 
other, formoterol fumarate dihydrate, is a ‘long-acting beta2 agonist’ (LABA). Both classes of 
medicines (LAMA and LABA) are frequently used to treat the symptoms of COPD. 
Brimica Genuair has been studied in 2 main studies involving over 3,400 patients with COPD, in which 
it was compared with aclidinium alone, formoterol alone and placebo (a dummy treatment). The main 
measure of effectiveness was based on changes in patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the 
maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second) after six months. 
Results showed that, after six months of treatment, the increase in FEV1 (measured one hour after an 
inhalation) was 293 milliliters (ml) more with Brimica Genuair than with placebo and 118 ml more with 
Brimica Genuair than with aclidinium alone. However the improvement over formoterol alone was small 
and not considered clinically significant: FEV1 measured in the morning before the inhalation was 68 ml 
Page 1/7 
 
 
 
more with Brimica Genuair than with formoterol alone. Brimica Genuair was also shown to increase the 
percentage of patients who had an improvement in breathlessness compared with placebo. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
In the main studies, nearly all patients were adult Caucasians. No differences in efficacy and safety are 
expected in patients of different ethnic backgrounds but further studies are ongoing in Asian patients in 
Japan to provide information on the use of aclidinium/formoterol in this population. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
No important risks were identified from the clinical development of Brimica Genuair. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Problems affecting the 
Aclidinium bromide is a LAMA and formoterol fumarate dihydrate is a 
heart (cardiac events) 
LABA. Side effects, such as problems with the rhythm of the heart, heart 
attack and heart failure, have been reported to occur with other LAMAs 
and LABAs, and therefore are considered a potential risk with Brimica 
Genuair.  
In clinical studies, up to 7% of patients experienced any type of heart 
disorder, similarly to the rate seen with placebo, and fewer than 2% 
experienced a serious event. Most events were mild to moderately severe 
and most patients fully recovered or were recovering from the events. 
Brimica Genuair should be used with caution in patients who have had or 
have any heart disorders and may need to be stopped if any unfavourable 
effects, such as increased heart rate or increased blood pressure, occur. 
Problems affecting the 
Side effects such as stroke have been reported to occur with other LAMAs 
blood vessels in the brain 
and LABAs and are therefore considered potential risks with Brimica 
(cerebrovascular events) 
Genuair. 
In clinical studies, fewer than 1% of patients experienced any type of 
stroke-related event, similar to placebo. 
Death (mortality) 
Increased mortality has been observed in patients taking similar 
medicines. In studies with Brimica Genuair the number of deaths was 
similar in the groups taking Brimica Genuair and in the placebo group. 
Side effects that mainly 
LABAs and LAMAs are known to affect multiple organ systems, not just 
affect the urinary tract, 
the lungs. 
eyes, heartbeat and blood 
sugar or potassium levels, 
which have been observed 
with LABA and LAMA 
medicines  
(class effects - 
In clinical studies, fewer than 4% of patients experienced undesirable 
effects including high blood sugar, blurred vision, increased pressure in 
the eye (glaucoma), blood potassium decrease, fast heartbeat and 
urinary retention (inability to pass urine). 
Most events were mild to moderately severe and most patients fully 
Page 2/7 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
anticholinergic and beta2-
recovered or were recovering from the events. 
agonist adverse effects) 
Alterations of the electrical 
No relevant alterations of the electrical activity of the heart on the 
activity of the heart (QTc 
electrocardiogram have been seen with aclidinium bromide (one of 
prolongation) 
Brimica Genuair components), however in the published literature, it is 
described that formoterol (another Brimica Genuair component) could 
cause alterations on the recordings of the electrical activity of the heart. 
In the clinical studies, no important differences on the electrocardiogram 
were seen between patients treated with Brimica Genuair or placebo. 
Temporary narrowing of 
Worsening of COPD symptoms (paradoxical bronchospasm) were not 
the airways which occurs 
observed in the clinical studies with Brimica Genuair. However, this effect 
suddenly leading to 
has been observed with inhaled formulations of a number of other 
difficulties in breathing or 
medicines for the treatment of COPD. The mechanisms that cause this are 
wheezing (paradoxical 
unknown. 
bronchospasm) 
This condition is unpredictable in nature. If symptoms occur, treatment 
with Brimica Genuair should be stopped. 
Allergic reactions 
(hypersensitivity) 
In clinical studies, allergic reactions occurred in 0.5% of patients and 
were mostly mild or moderately severe and similar to placebo.   
Unapproved use (off-label 
Brimica Genuair should not be used in patients with asthma. Clinical 
use) in asthmatic patients 
studies with Brimica Genuair have not been conducted in this population. 
and events related to 
asthma 
Unapproved use (off-label 
Brimica Genuair should not be used in children or adolescents below 18 
use) in children  
years of age. Clinical studies with Brimica Genuair have not been 
conducted in this population. 
Medication errors 
It is possible that doses will not be given properly when the device is used 
incorrectly. Doctors, nurses, and pharmacists should discuss with patients 
how to correctly use the inhaler. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in patients with 
Brimica Genuair has not been studied in patients suffering from the 
certain illnesses at the 
following conditions since the symptoms may get worse: 
same time as COPD 
 
patients who have had heart problems recently (such as irregular 
heart beat [arrhythmias], heart attack [myocardial infarction], cardiac 
chest pain [angina]). Such patients were excluded from the clinical 
studies and these conditions may get worse; 
 
patients with alterations of the electrical activity of the heart (QTc 
prolongation); 
 
patients with an enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia), 
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
problems passing urine (urinary retention), blockage in the bladder 
(bladder neck obstruction) or increased pressure in the eye (narrow 
angle glaucoma); 
 
patients with thyroid gland problems (thyrotoxicosis) or a tumour in 
one of the adrenal glands (phaeochromocytoma). 
Safety in patients with 
Since no dosage adjustments are needed for medicines containing either 
severe kidney or liver 
aclidinium or formoterol in patients with kidney or liver impairment, no 
impairment 
dosage adjustment is required for Brimica Genuair. Nevertheless, clinical 
experience with Brimica Genuair in patients with severe liver or kidney 
impairment is limited. 
Use together with other 
The use of Brimica Genuair together with other medicines containing 
medicines containing 
similar active substances (LAMAs or LABAs) has not been studied and is 
similar active substances 
therefore not recommended. 
to aclidinium and 
formoterol (LAMAs or 
LABAs) 
Use together with other 
There is limited information on the concomitant use of Brimica Genuair 
medicines containing 
with some medicines used for high blood pressure or for coronary (heart) 
certain active substances 
artery diseases (non-selective beta blockers such as carvedilol or 
to treat high blood 
propranolol). 
pressure (non-selective 
beta blockers) 
Use in patients with very 
There is limited information in patients with very severe COPD using 
severe COPD using 
Brimica Genuair for more than 1 year. 
Brimica Genuair in the 
long term 
Information on non-
The number of non-Caucasian patients with COPD in the Brimica Genuair 
Caucasian patients 
clinical development programme was low. No dosage adjustments are 
expected for Brimica Genuair on the basis of ethnicity. However, studies 
will take place in Asian patients. 
Use in pregnancy and 
There are no data available on the use of Brimica Genuair in pregnant or 
breastfeeding 
breastfeeding women. Brimica Genuair should only be used during 
pregnancy if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks. 
Since it is unknown whether the active substances in Brimica Genuair 
and/or their metabolites pass into human breastmilk, the use of Brimica 
Genuair by breastfeeding women should only be considered if the 
expected benefit to the woman is greater than any possible risk to the 
infant. 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Brimica Genuair can be found on Brimica Genuair’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) final 
results  
M/34273/44: 
To evaluate the 
  Cardiac events 
Planned 
Results for aclidinium 
Post-authorisation 
safety study 
(PASS)  
cardiovascular 
safety and all-
(myocardial 
infarction, 
cause mortality of 
cardiac failure 
monotherapy 
expected in first half 
2017- first half 2020. 
and cardiac 
arrhytmias) 
  Cerebrovascular 
events (stroke) 
  Mortality from all 
causes 
Results for 
aclidinium/formoterol 
to be estimated 
depending on the 
market intake of the 
product after its 
launch (expected in 
2015). 
aclidinium and 
other 
bronchodilators 
used in patients 
with COPD. 
When Brimica 
Genuair becomes 
available, new 
users will be 
included in the 
cohort for 
evaluation. A new 
additional endpoint 
of cardiac 
arrhythmias is 
planned to be 
evaluated for this 
cohort. 
M/34273/43: 
To describe the 
Safety of aclidinium 
Planned 
Final report for DUS 2 
Drug utilisation 
study (DUS 1 and 
DUS 2) 
characteristics and 
in groups where 
expected in 2018-
patterns of use in 
information is 
2019. 
new users of 
missing. 
aclidinium 
(monotherapy or in 
combination) and 
Potential off-label 
new users of other 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) final 
results  
selected COPD 
use.   
treatments.  
To evaluate the 
potential off-label 
use. To describe 
users of aclidinium 
in patient 
subgroups for 
which there is 
missing 
information. 
To establish a core 
cohort of new users 
of aclidinium. 
KRP-AB1102F-
To verify the 
Efficacy and safety 
Ongoing 
Final report expected 
D301 
Phase 3 
superiority of 12-
evaluation in non-
in April 2015. 
week twice daily 
Caucasian 
repeated treatment 
population. 
of Brimica Genuair 
over that of 
aclidinium in 
Japanese COPD 
patients and, in 
addition, to confirm 
the efficacy and 
safety of Brimica 
Genuair. 
KRP-AB1102F-
To assess the 
Efficacy and safety 
Experiment
Final report expected 
D302 
Phase 2 
pharmacokinetics 
evaluation in non-
al phase 
in May 2014. 
Caucasian 
population. 
completed 
of aclidinium 
bromide and 
formoterol after 
repeated 
administration of 
Brimica Genuair 
(twice daily) for 5 
days in Japanese 
male patients with 
COPD. 
KRP-AB1102F-
To assess the 
Efficacy and safety 
Ongoing 
Final report expected 
D303 
Phase 3 
safety and efficacy 
evaluation in non-
in August 2015. 
of long-term (52 
Caucasian 
weeks) 
population. 
administration of 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/activity 
(including study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date for 
submission of 
(interim and) final 
results  
Brimica Genuair in 
Japanese patients 
with COPD. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
The post-authorization safety study M/34273/44 is a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2014. 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
