ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms /12 micrograms inhalation powder 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each delivered dose (the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 396 micrograms of aclidinium 
bromide (equivalent to 340 micrograms of aclidinium) and 11.8 micrograms of formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate. This corresponds to a metered dose of 400 micrograms of aclidinium bromide (equivalent 
to 343 micrograms of aclidinium) and a metered dose of 12 micrograms of formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each delivered dose contains approximately 11 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Inhalation powder. 
White or almost white powder in a white inhaler with an integral dose indicator and an orange dosage 
button. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Brimica Genuair is indicated as a maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is one inhalation twice daily. 
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible and the next dose should be taken at the 
usual time. A double dose should not be taken to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustments are required in elderly patients (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustments are required in patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No dose adjustments are required in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Brimica Genuair in children and adolescents (under 18 years of age) for the 
indication of COPD. 
Method of administration 
For inhalation use. 
Patients should be instructed on how to administer the product correctly as the Genuair inhaler may 
work differently from inhalers the patients may have used previously. It is important to instruct the 
patients to read the Instructions for Use in the Package Leaflet.  
Before first use, the sealed bag should be teared open, and the inhaler removed. The bag and the 
desiccant should be thrown away. 
For instructions for use, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to the excipient listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Asthma 
Brimica Genuair should not be used in asthma; clinical studies of Brimica Genuair in asthma have not 
been conducted. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
In clinical studies, paradoxical bronchospasm was not observed with Brimica Genuair at its 
recommended dose. However, paradoxical bronchospasm has been observed with other inhalation 
therapies. If this occurs, medicinal product should be stopped and other treatment will be considered. 
Not for acute use 
Brimica Genuair is not indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Patients with a myocardial infarction during the previous 6 months, unstable angina, newly diagnosed 
arrhythmia within the previous 3 months, QTc (Bazett’s method) above 470 msec, or hospitalisation 
within the previous 12 months for heart failure functional classes III and IV as per the “New York 
Heart Association” were excluded from the clinical studies, therefore Brimica Genuair should be used 
with caution in these patients groups. 
β2-adrenergic agonists may produce increases in pulse rate and blood pressure, electrocardiogram 
(ECG) changes such as T wave flattening, ST segment depression and prolongation of the QTc-
interval in some patients. In case such effects occur, treatment may need to be discontinued. Long-
acting β2-adrenergic agonists should be used with caution in patients with history of or known 
prolongation of the QTc-interval or treated with medicinal products affecting the QTc interval (see 
section 4.5). 
Systemic effects 
Brimica Genuair should be used with caution in patients with severe cardiovascular disorders, 
convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis and phaeochromocytoma. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolic effects of hyperglycaemia and hypokalaemia may be observed with high doses of 
β2-adrenergic agonists. In Phase III clinical studies, the frequency of notable increases in blood 
glucose with Brimica Genuair was low (0.1%) and similar to placebo. Hypokalaemia is usually 
transient, not requiring supplementation. In patients with severe COPD, hypokalaemia may be 
potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment (see section 4.5). Hypokalaemia increases 
susceptibility to cardiac arrhythmias. 
Due to its anticholinergic activity, Brimica Genuair should be used with caution in patients with 
symptomatic prostatic hyperplasia, urinary retention or narrow-angle glaucoma (even though direct 
contact of the product with the eyes is very unlikely). Dry mouth, which has been observed with 
anticholinergic treatment, may in the long term be associated with dental caries. 
Lactose content 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
COPD medicinal products 
Co-administration of Brimica Genuair with other anticholinergic and/or long-acting β2-adrenergic 
agonist containing medicinal products has not been studied and is not recommended. 
Although no formal in vivo drug interaction studies have been performed with Brimica Genuair, it has 
been used concomitantly with other COPD medicinal products including short-acting β2-adrenergic 
bronchodilators, methylxanthines, and oral and inhaled steroids without clinical evidence of drug 
interactions. 
Hypokalaemic treatment 
Concomitant treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or non-potassium-sparing diuretics 
may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of β2-adrenergic agonists, therefore caution is advised 
in their concomitant use (see section 4.4). 
β-adrenergic blockers 
β-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of β2-adrenergic agonists. If β-adrenergic 
blockers are required (including eye drops), cardioselective beta-adrenergic blockers are preferred, 
although they should also be administered with caution. 
Other pharmacodynamic interactions 
Brimica Genuair should be administered with caution to patients being treated with medicinal products 
known to prolong the QTc interval such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, 
antihistamines or macrolides because the action of formoterol, a component of Brimica Genuair, on 
the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these medicinal products. Medicinal products that are 
known to prolong the QTc interval are associated with an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 
Metabolic interactions 
In vitro studies have shown that aclidinium or its metabolites at the therapeutic dose are not expected 
to cause interactions with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate drugs or drugs metabolised by cytochrome 
P450 (CYP450) enzymes and esterases. Formoterol does not inhibit the CYP450 enzymes at 
therapeutically relevant concentrations (see section 5.2). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data available on the use of Brimica Genuair in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown foetotoxicity only at dose levels much higher than the maximum 
human exposure to aclidinium and adverse effects in reproduction studies with formoterol at very high 
systemic exposure levels (see section 5.3). 
Brimica Genuair should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefits outweigh the potential 
risks. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether aclidinium (and/or its metabolites) or formoterol are excreted in human milk. 
As studies in rats have shown excretion of small amounts of aclidinium (and/or its metabolites) and 
formoterol into milk, the use of Brimica Genuair by breast-feeding women should only be considered 
if the expected benefit to the woman is greater than any possible risk to the infant. 
Fertility 
Studies in rats have shown slight reductions in fertility only at dose levels much higher than the 
maximum human exposure to aclidinium and formoterol (see section 5.3). Nevertheless, it is 
considered unlikely that Brimica Genuair administered at the recommended dose will affect fertility in 
humans. 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Brimica Genuair has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. The 
occurrence of blurred vision or dizziness may influence the ability to drive or to use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
The presentation of the safety profile is based on the experience with Brimica Genuair and the 
individual components. 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety experience with Brimica Genuair comprised exposure in clinical trials at the recommended 
therapeutic dose for up to 12 months, and in post-marketing experience. 
Adverse reactions associated with Brimica Genuair were similar to those of the individual 
components. As Brimica Genuair contains aclidinium and formoterol, the type and severity of adverse 
reactions associated with each of the components may be expected with Brimica Genuair. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions with Brimica Genuair were nasopharyngitis (7.9%) 
and headache (6.8%). 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The Brimica Genuair clinical development programme was conducted in patients with moderate or 
severe COPD. A total of 1222 patients were treated with Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms 
/12 micrograms. The frequencies assigned to the adverse reactions are based on crude incidence rates 
observed with Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms /12 micrograms in the pooled analysis of randomised, 
placebo-controlled Phase III clinical studies of at least six months duration, or on experience with 
individual components. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The frequency of adverse reactions is defined using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Infectious and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, Thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Preferred term 
Nasopharyngitis 
Urinary tract infection 
Sinusitis 
Tooth abscess 
Hypersensitivity 
Angioedema 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Insomnia 
Anxiety 
Agitation 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Tremor 
Dysgeusia 
Blurred vision 
Tachycardia 
Electrocardiogram QTc prolonged 
Palpitations 
Angina pectoris 
Cough 
Dysphonia 
Throat irritation 
Bronchospasm, including paradoxical 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Dry mouth 
Stomatitis 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Myalgia 
Muscle spasms 
Renal and urinary disorders  Urinary retention 
Investigations 
Blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased 
Common 
Rare 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Blood pressure increased 
Uncommon 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
There is limited evidence on the management of overdose with Brimica Genuair. High doses of 
Brimica Genuair may lead to exaggerated anticholinergic and/or β2-adrenergic signs and symptoms; 
the most frequent of which include blurred vision, dry mouth, nausea, muscle spasm, tremor, 
headache, palpitations and hypertension. 
Brimica Genuair should be discontinued in case of overdose. Supportive and symptomatic treatment is 
indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics, ATC code: R03AL05 
Mechanism of action 
Brimica Genuair contains two bronchodilators: aclidinium is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (also 
known as an anticholinergic) and formoterol is a long-acting β2-adrenergic agonist. The combination 
of these substances with different mechanisms of action results in additive efficacy compared to that 
achieved with either component alone. As a consequence of the differential density of muscarinic 
receptors and β2-adrenoceptors in the central and peripheral airways of the lung, muscarinic 
antagonists should be more effective in relaxing central airways and β2-adrenergic agonists should be 
more effective in relaxing peripheral airways; relaxation of both central and peripheral airways with 
combination treatment may contribute to its beneficial effects on lung function. Further information 
regarding these two substances is provided below. 
Aclidinium is a competitive, selective muscarinic receptor antagonist, with a longer residence time at 
the M3 receptors than the M2 receptors. M3 receptors mediate contraction of airway smooth muscle. 
Inhaled aclidinium bromide acts locally in the lungs to antagonise M3 receptors of airway smooth 
muscle and induce bronchodilation. Aclidinium has also been shown to provide benefits to patients 
with COPD in terms of symptoms reduction, improvement in disease-specific health status, reduction 
in exacerbation rates and improvements in exercise tolerance. Since aclidinium bromide is quickly 
broken down in plasma, the level of systemic anticholinergic undesirable effects is low. 
Formoterol is a potent selective β2-adrenoceptor agonist. Bronchodilation is induced by causing direct 
relaxation of airway smooth muscle as a consequence of the increase in cyclic AMP through activation 
of adenylate cyclase. In addition to improving pulmonary function, formoterol has been shown to 
improve symptoms and quality of life in patients with COPD. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Clinical efficacy studies showed that Brimica Genuair provides clinically meaningful improvements in 
lung function (as measured by the forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1]) over 12 hours 
following administration. 
Brimica Genuair demonstrated a rapid onset of action within 5 minutes of the first inhalation relative 
to placebo (p<0.0001). The onset of action of Brimica Genuair was comparable to the effect of the 
fast-acting β2-agonist formoterol 12 micrograms. Maximal bronchodilator effects (peak FEV1) relative 
to baseline were evident from day one (304 ml) and were maintained over the 6-month treatment 
period (326 ml). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
No clinically relevant effects of Brimica Genuair on ECG parameters (including QT-interval) 
compared with aclidinium, formoterol and placebo were seen in Phase III studies of 6 to 12 months 
duration conducted in approximately 4,000 patients with COPD. No clinically significant effects of 
Brimica Genuair on cardiac rhythm were observed on 24-hour Holter monitoring in a subset of 
551 patients, of whom 114 received Brimica Genuair twice daily. 
Clinical Efficacy and Safety 
The Phase III clinical development programme included approximately 4,000 patients with a clinical 
diagnosis of COPD and comprised two 6-month randomised, placebo- and active-controlled studies 
(ACLIFORM-COPD and AUGMENT), a 6-month extension of the AUGMENT study and a further 
12-month randomised controlled study. During these studies, patients were permitted to continue their 
stable treatment with inhaled corticosteroids, low doses of oral corticosteroids, oxygen therapy (if less 
than 15h/day) or methylxanthines and to use salbutamol as rescue medication. 
Efficacy was assessed by measures of lung function, symptomatic outcomes, disease-specific health 
status, rescue medication use, and exacerbations. In long-term safety studies, Brimica Genuair was 
associated with sustained efficacy when administered over a one-year treatment period with no 
evidence of tachyphylaxis. 
Effects on lung function 
Brimica Genuair 340/12 micrograms twice daily consistently provided clinically meaningful 
improvements in lung function (as assessed by FEV1, forced vital capacity and inspiratory capacity) 
compared with placebo. In Phase III studies, clinically meaningful bronchodilator effects were seen 
within 5 minutes of the first dose and were maintained over the dosing interval. There was a sustained 
effect over time in the six-months and one-year Phase III studies. 
FEV1 at 1 hour post-dose and trough FEV1 (compared to aclidinium 400 micrograms and formoterol 
12 micrograms, respectively) were defined as co-primary endpoints in both 6-month pivotal Phase III 
studies to demonstrate the bronchodilator contributions of formoterol and aclidinium in Brimica 
Genuair, respectively. 
In study ACLIFORM-COPD, Brimica Genuair showed improvements in FEV1 at 1 hour post-dose 
relative to placebo and aclidinium of 299 ml and 125 ml, respectively (both p<0.0001) and 
improvements in trough FEV1 relative to placebo and formoterol of 143 ml and 85 ml, respectively 
(both p<0.0001). In study AUGMENT, Brimica Genuair showed improvements in FEV1 at 1 hour 
post-dose relative to placebo and aclidinium of 284 ml and 108 ml (both p<0.0001), respectively, and 
improvements in trough FEV1 relative to placebo and formoterol of 130 ml (p<0.0001) and 45 ml 
(p=0.01), respectively. 
Symptom relief and disease-specific health status benefits 
Breathlessness and other symptomatic outcomes: 
Brimica Genuair provided a clinically meaningful improvement in breathlessness (assessed by the 
Transition Dyspnoea Index [TDI]) with an improvement in the TDI focal score at 6 months compared 
to placebo of 1.29 units in study ACLIFORM-COPD (p<0.0001) and 1.44 units in study AUGMENT 
(p<0.0001). The percentages of patients with clinically meaningful improvements in TDI focal score 
(defined as an increase of at least 1 unit) were higher with Brimica Genuair than with placebo in 
ACLIFORM-COPD (64.8% compared to 45.5%; p<0.001) and AUGMENT (58.1% compared to 
36.6%; p<0.0001). 
The pooled analysis of these two studies showed Brimica Genuair to be associated with statistically 
significantly greater improvements in TDI focal score compared to aclidinium (0.4 units, p=0.016) or 
formoterol (0.5 units, p=0.009). In addition, a higher percentage of patients receiving Brimica Genuair 
responded with a clinically meaningful improvement in TDI focal score compared to either aclidinium 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or formoterol (61.9% compared to 55.7% and 57.0%, respectively; p=0.056 and p=0.100, 
respectively). 
Brimica Genuair improved daily symptoms of COPD such as ‘breathlessness’, ‘chest symptoms’, 
‘cough and sputum’ (assessed by E-RS total score) as well as overall night-time symptoms, overall 
early morning symptoms and symptoms limiting early morning activities compared to placebo, 
aclidinium and formoterol but the improvements were not always statistically significant. 
Aclidinium/formoterol did not statistically significantly reduce the average number of night-time 
awakenings due to COPD compared with placebo or formoterol. 
Health-related quality of life: 
Brimica Genuair provided a clinically meaningful improvement in disease-specific health status (as 
assessed by the St. George’s Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ]) in study AUGMENT, with an 
improvement in the SGRQ total score compared to placebo of -4.35 units (p<0.0001). The percentage 
of patients in AUGMENT who achieved a clinically meaningful improvement from baseline in SGRQ 
total score (defined as a decrease of at least 4 units) was higher with Brimica Genuair than with 
placebo (58.2% compared to 38.7%, respectively; p<0.001). In study ACLIFORM-COPD, only a 
small decrease in SGRQ total score compared to placebo was observed due to an unexpectedly large 
placebo response (p=0.598) and the percentages of patients who achieved clinically meaningful 
improvements from baseline were 55.3% with Brimica Genuair and 53.2% with placebo (p=0.669). 
In the pooled analysis of these two studies, Brimica Genuair showed greater improvements in SGRQ 
total score compared to formoterol (-1.7 units; p=0.018) or aclidinium (-0.79 units, p=0.273). In 
addition, a higher percentage of patients receiving Brimica Genuair responded with a clinically 
meaningful improvement in SGRQ total score compared to aclidinium and formoterol (56.6% 
compared to 53.9% and 52.2%, respectively; p=0.603 and p=0.270, respectively). 
COPD exacerbation reductions 
Pooled efficacy analysis of the two 6-month Phase III studies demonstrated a statistically significant 
reduction of 29% in the rate of moderate or severe exacerbations (requiring treatment with antibiotics 
or corticosteroids or resulting in hospitalisations) with Brimica Genuair compared to placebo (rates per 
patient per year: 0.29 vs. 0.42, respectively; p=0.036). 
In addition, Brimica Genuair statistically significantly delayed the time to first moderate or severe 
exacerbation compared to placebo (hazard ratio=0.70; p=0.027). 
Use of rescue medication 
Brimica Genuair reduced the use of rescue medication over 6 months compared to placebo (by 
0.9 puffs per day [p<0.0001]), aclidinium (by 0.4 puffs/day [p<0.001]) and formoterol (by 
0.2 puffs/day [p=0.062]). 
Lung volumes, exercise endurance and physical activity 
The effect of Brimica Genuair on lung volumes, exercise endurance and physical activity was 
investigated in an 8-week parallel, randomised, placebo-controlled clinical study in COPD patients 
with hyperinflation (functional residual capacity [FRC] >120%). 
After 4 weeks of treatment Brimica Genuair implied improvement versus placebo in change from 
baseline in morning pre-dose (trough) FRC, the primary endpoint, but the difference was not 
statistically significant (-0.125 L; 95% CI=(-0.259, 0.010); p=0.069*). Brimica Genuair showed 
improvements compared to placebo in lung volumes at 2-3h post dose (FRC=-0.366 L [95% CI=-
0.515, -0.216; p<0.0001]; residual volume [RV]=-0.465 L [95% CI=-0.648, -0.281; p<0.0001] and 
inspiratory capacity [IC]=0.293 L [95% CI=0.208, 0.378; p<0.0001]). 
Brimica Genuair also showed improvements in exercise endurance time compared to placebo after 8 
weeks of treatment (55 seconds [95% CI=5.6, 104.8; p=0.0292]; baseline value: 456 seconds). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After 4 weeks of treatment, Brimica Genuair improved the number of steps per day compared to 
placebo (731 steps/day; 95% CI=279, 1181; p=0.0016) and reduced the percentage of inactive patients 
(<6000 steps per day) [40.8% compared to 54.5%; p<0.0001]. Improvements in the PROactive total 
score were observed in patients treated with Brimica Genuair compared with placebo (p=0.0002). 
A behavioural intervention program was added to both treatment groups for an additional 4 weeks. 
The number of steps/day in the Brimica Genuair treatment group was maintained resulting in a 
treatment effect compared to placebo of 510 steps/day (p=0.1588) and a reduction versus placebo in 
the percentage of inactive patients (<6000 steps per day) (41.5% compared to 50.4%; p=0.1134). 
*As the primary endpoint did not achieve statistical significance, all p-values for secondary endpoints 
are tested at a nominal significance level of 0.05, and no formal statistical inference can be drawn. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Brimica Genuair in all subsets of the paediatric population in COPD (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use). 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
When aclidinium and formoterol were administered in combination by the inhaled route, the 
pharmacokinetics of each component showed no relevant differences from those observed when the 
medicinal products were administered separately. 
Absorption 
Following inhalation of a single dose of Brimica Genuair 340/12 micrograms, aclidinium and 
formoterol were rapidly absorbed into plasma, reaching peak plasma concentrations within 5 minutes 
of inhalation in healthy subjects and within 24 minutes of inhalation in patients with COPD. The peak 
plasma concentrations at steady state of aclidinium and formoterol observed in patients with COPD 
treated with Brimica Genuair twice daily for 5 days were reached within 5 minutes post-inhalation and 
were 128 pg/ml and 17 pg/ml, respectively. 
Distribution 
Whole lung deposition of inhaled aclidinium via Genuair averaged approximately 30% of the metered 
dose. The plasma protein binding of aclidinium determined in vitro most likely corresponded to the 
protein binding of the metabolites due to the rapid hydrolysis of aclidinium in plasma; plasma protein 
binding was 87% for the carboxylic acid metabolite and 15% for the alcohol metabolite. The main 
plasma protein that binds aclidinium is albumin. 
The plasma protein binding of formoterol is 61% to 64% (34% primarily to albumin). There is no 
saturation of binding sites in the concentration range reached with therapeutic doses. 
Biotransformation 
Aclidinium is rapidly and extensively hydrolysed to its pharmacologically inactive alcohol- and 
carboxylic acid-derivatives. Plasma levels of the acid metabolite are approximately 100-fold greater 
than those of the alcohol metabolite and the unchanged active substance following inhalation. The 
hydrolysis occurs both chemically (non-enzymatically) and enzymatically by esterases, 
butyrylcholinesterase being the main human esterase involved in the hydrolysis. The low absolute 
bioavailability of inhaled aclidinium (<5%) is because aclidinium undergoes extensive systemic and 
pre-systemic hydrolysis whether deposited in the lung or swallowed.  Biotransformation via CYP450 
enzymes plays a minor role in the total metabolic clearance of aclidinium. In vitro studies have shown 
that aclidinium at the therapeutic dose or its metabolites do not inhibit or induce any of the cytochrome 
P450 (CYP450) enzymes and do not inhibit esterases (carboxylesterase, acetylcholinesterase and 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
butyrylcholinesterase). In vitro studies have shown that aclidinium or its metabolites are not substrates 
or inhibitors of P-glycoprotein. 
Formoterol is eliminated primarily by metabolism. The prominent pathway involves direct 
glucuronidation, with O-demethylation followed by glucuronide conjugation being a further metabolic 
pathway. Cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and CYP2A6 are involved in 
the O-demethylation of formoterol. Formoterol does not inhibit CYP450 enzymes at therapeutically 
relevant concentrations. 
Elimination 
Following inhalation of Brimica Genuair 340/12 micrograms, with plasma sampling up to 24 hours 
post-dose, the terminal elimination half-life observed for aclidinium bromide ranged from 11-33 hours 
and for formoterol from 12-18 hours. 
Mean effective half-lives* observed for both aclidinium and formoterol (based on the accumulation 
ratio) are approximately 10 hours. 
*Half-life consistent with product accumulation based on a known dose regimen. 
Following intravenous administration of radiolabelled aclidinium 400 micrograms to healthy subjects, 
approximately 1% of the dose was excreted as unchanged aclidinium bromide in the urine. Up to 65% 
of the dose was eliminated as metabolites in the urine and up to 33% as metabolites in the faeces. 
Following inhalation of aclidinium 200 micrograms and 400 micrograms by healthy subjects or 
patients with COPD, the urinary excretion of unchanged aclidinium was very low at about 0.1% of the 
administered dose, indicating that renal clearance plays a minor role in the total aclidinium clearance 
from plasma. 
The major part of a dose of formoterol is transformed by liver metabolism followed by renal 
elimination. After inhalation, 6% to 9% of the delivered dose of formoterol is excreted in the urine 
unchanged or as direct conjugates of formoterol. 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No pharmacokinetics studies have been performed with aclidinium/formoterol in elderly subjects. 
Since no dosage adjustments are needed for either aclidinium or formoterol medicinal products in 
elderly patients, no dosage adjustment is warranted for aclidinium/formoterol in geriatric patients. 
Renally and hepatically impaired patients 
There are no data regarding the specific use of aclidinium/formoterol in patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment. Since no dosage adjustments are needed for either aclidinium or formoterol medicinal 
products in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, no dosage adjustment is warranted for 
aclidinium/formoterol. 
Race 
Following repeated inhalations of Brimica Genuair 340/12 micrograms, the systemic exposure of 
aclidinium and formoterol, as measured by AUC, is similar in Japanese and Caucasian patients. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans with aclidinium and formoterol based on 
conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, and carcinogenic 
potential and toxicity to reproduction and development. 
Effects of aclidinium in nonclinical studies with respect to reproductive toxicity (foetotoxic effects) 
and fertility (slight decreases in conception rate, number of corpora lutea, and pre- and post-
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
implantation losses) were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the 
maximum human exposure indication to be of little relevance to clinical use. 
Formoterol showed reduced fertility (implantation losses) in rats, as well as decreased early postnatal 
survival and birth weight with high systemic exposure to formoterol. A slight increase in the incidence 
of uterine leiomyomas has been observed in rats and mice; an effect which is considered to be a class-
effect in rodents after long-term exposure to high doses of β2-adrenoreceptor agonists. 
Nonclinical studies investigating the effects of aclidinium/formoterol on cardiovascular parameters 
showed increased heart rates and arrhythmias at exposures sufficiently in excess of the maximum 
human exposure indication to be of little relevance to clinical use. These effects are known 
exaggerated pharmacological responses observed with β2-agonists. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Lactose monohydrate. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
3 years. 
To be used within 60 days of opening the bag. 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Keep the Genuair inhaler protected inside the sealed bag until the administration period starts. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
The Genuair inhaler is a multicomponent device made of plastic (polycarbonate, acrylonitrile-
butadiene-styrene, polyoxymethylene, polyester-butylene-terephthalate, polypropylene, polystyrene) 
and stainless steel. It is white-coloured with an integral dose indicator and an orange dosage button. 
The mouthpiece is covered with a removable orange protective cap. The inhaler is supplied sealed in a 
protective aluminium laminate bag containing a silica gel desiccant sachet, placed in a cardboard 
carton. 
Carton containing 1 inhaler with 30 doses. 
Carton containing 1 inhaler with 60 doses. 
Carton containing 3 inhalers each with 60 doses. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Instructions for Use 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Getting Started: 
Read these Instructions for Use before you start using the medicine. 
Become familiar with the parts of your Genuair inhaler. 
Control window 
Green = inhaler ready to use 
Dose 
indicator 
Orange button 
Protective 
Cap 
Control window 
Red = confirms correct inhalation 
Mouthpiece 
Before use: 
Figure A 
a. 
b. 
c. 
Before first use, tear open the sealed bag and remove the inhaler. Throw away the bag and the 
desiccant. 
Do not press the orange button until you are ready to take a dose. 
Pull off the cap by lightly squeezing the arrows marked on each side (Figure B). 
Squeeze here 
and pull 
Figure B 
STEP 1: Prepare your dose 
1.1 Look in the opening of the mouthpiece and make sure nothing is blocking it (Figure C).  
1.2  Look at the control window (should be red, Figure C). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RED 
Check mouthpiece 
opening 
  Figure C 
1.3  Hold the inhaler horizontally with the mouthpiece facing you and the orange button on top 
(Figure D). 
Figure D 
1.4  Press the orange button all the way down to load your dose (Figure E). 
When you press the button all the way down, the control window changes from red to green. 
Make sure the orange button is on top. Do not tilt. 
1.5  Release the orange button (Figure F). 
Make sure you release the button so the inhaler can work correctly. 
Figure E  
Stop and Check: 
   Figure F 
1.6  Make sure the control window is now green (Figure G). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your medicine is ready to be inhaled. 
Go to ‘STEP 2: Inhale your medicine’. 
GREEN 
Figure G 
What to do if the control window is still red after pressing the button (Figure H). 
    Figure H 
The dose is not prepared. Go back to ‘STEP 1 Prepare your dose’ and repeat steps 1.1 to 1.6. 
STEP 2: Inhale your medicine 
Read steps 2.1 to 2.7 fully before use. Do not tilt. 
2.1  Hold the inhaler away from your mouth, and breathe out completely. Never breathe out into 
the inhaler (Figure I). 
Figure I 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Hold your head upright, put the mouthpiece between your lips, and close your lips tightly around 
it (Figure J). 
Do not hold the orange button down while inhaling. 
Figure J 
2.3  Take a strong, deep breath through your mouth. Keep breathing in for as long as possible.   
A ‘click’ will let you know that you are inhaling correctly. Keep breathing in as long as possible 
after you hear the ‘click’. Some patients may not hear the ‘click’. Use the control window to ensure 
you have inhaled correctly. 
2.4  Take the inhaler out of your mouth. 
2.5  Hold your breath for as long as possible. 
2.6  Slowly breathe out away from the inhaler.  
Some patients may experience a grainy sensation in their mouth, or a slightly sweet or bitter taste. Do 
not take an extra dose even if you do not taste or feel anything after inhaling. 
Stop and Check: 
2.7  Make sure the control window is now red (Figure K). This means you have inhaled your 
medicine correctly. 
RED 
Figure K 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What to do if the control window is still green after inhalation (Figure L). 
Figure L 
This means you have not inhaled your medicine correctly. Go back to ‘STEP 2 Inhale your medicine’ 
and repeat steps 2.1 to 2.7. 
If the control window still does not change to red, you may have forgotten to release the orange button 
before inhaling, or you may not have inhaled strongly enough. If this happens, try again. Make sure you 
have released the orange button, and you have breathed out completely. Then take a strong, deep breath 
through the mouthpiece. 
Please contact your doctor if the control window is still green after repeated attempts. 
Push the protective cap back onto the mouthpiece after each use (Figure M), to prevent contamination 
of the inhaler with dust or other materials. You should discard your inhaler if you lose the cap. 
Figure M 
Additional information: 
What should you do if you accidently prepare a dose? 
Store your inhaler with the protective cap in place until it is time to inhale your medicine, then remove 
the cap and start at Step 1.6. 
How does the dose indicator work? 
• 
• 
• 
The dose indicator shows the total number of doses left in the inhaler (Figure N). 
On first use, every inhaler contains at least 60 doses, or at least 30 doses, depending on the pack 
size. 
Each time you load a dose by pressing the orange button, the dose indicator moves by a small 
amount towards the next number (50, 40, 30, 20, 10, or 0). 
When should you get a new inhaler? 
You should get a new inhaler: 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your inhaler appears to be damaged or if you lose the cap, or 
• 
•  When a red band appears in the dose indicator, this means you are nearing your last dose(Figure 
N), or 
If your inhaler is empty (Figure O). 
• 
Dose indicator moves slowly from 
60 to 0: 60, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, 0. 
Dose 
indicator 
Red band 
Figure N 
How do you know that your inhaler is empty? 
When the orange button will not return to its full upper position and is locked in a middle position, you 
have reached the last dose (Figure O). Even though the orange button is locked, your last dose may 
still be inhaled. After that, the inhaler cannot be used again and you should start using a new inhaler. 
Locked 
Figure O 
How should you clean the inhaler? 
NEVER use water to clean the inhaler, as this may damage your medicine. 
If you wish to clean your inhaler, just wipe the outside of the mouthpiece with a dry tissue or paper 
towel. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Gustav Mahlerplein 2 
1082MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/963/001 
EU/1/14/963/002 
EU/1/14/963/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 November 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 23 August 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.   MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Industrias Farmacéuticas Almirall, S.A. 
Ctra. de Martorell 41-61 
08740 Sant Andreu de la Barca, Barcelona 
Spain 
B.  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
C.  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports 
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measure: 
Description 
Submission of the results of the agreed post-authorisation safety study (PASS) for 
aclidinium bromide to evaluate the overall mortality and the proposed cardiovascular 
safety endpoints (with an additional endpoint of cardiac arrhythmia) among patients 
with COPD using aclidinium/formoterol, according to a protocol agreed by the PRAC. 
Due date 
2023 
22 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms/12 micrograms inhalation powder 
aclidinium/formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 396 micrograms aclidinium bromide (equivalent to 340 micrograms of 
aclidinium) and 11.8 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: Lactose 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder 
1 inhaler containing 30 doses 
1 inhaler containing 60 doses 
3 inhalers each containing 60 doses 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
To be used within 60 days of opening bag. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Keep the Genuair inhaler protected inside the sealed bag until the administration period starts. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Gustav Mahlerplein 2 
1082MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Covis (Covis logo) 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/963/001 
EU/1/14/963/002 
EU/1/14/963/003 
1 inhaler with 60 doses 
3 inhalers each with 60 doses 
1 inhaler with 30 doses 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
brimica genuair 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
ALUMINIUM BAG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms/12 micrograms inhalation powder 
aclidinium/formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Covis (Covis logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
To be used within 60 days of opening the bag. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Keep the Genuair inhaler protected inside the sealed bag until the administration period starts. 
[arrow] Tear here 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
INHALER LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Brimica Genuair 340 mcg/12 mcg inhalation powder 
aclidinium/formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
Inhalation use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
To be used within 60 days of opening the bag. 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 doses 
60 doses 
6. 
OTHER 
Covis (Covis logo) 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Brimica Genuair 340 micrograms /12 micrograms inhalation powder 
aclidinium/formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Brimica Genuair is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Brimica Genuair 
3.  How to use Brimica Genuair 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Brimica Genuair 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for Use 
1.  What Brimica Genuair is and what it is used for 
What Brimica Genuair is 
This medicine contains two active ingredients called aclidinium and formoterol fumarate dihydrate. 
Both belong to a group of medicines called bronchodilators. Bronchodilators relax the muscles in your 
airways, which allows the airways to open more widely and helps you to breathe more easily. The 
Genuair inhaler delivers the active ingredients directly into your lungs as you breathe in. 
What Brimica Genuair is used for 
Brimica Genuair is used for adult patients who have breathing difficulties due to a lung disease called 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), in which the airways and air sacs in the lungs become 
damaged or blocked. By opening the airways, the medicine helps relieve symptoms such as shortness 
of breath. Taking Brimica Genuair regularly will reduce the effects of COPD on your everyday life. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Brimica Genuair 
Do not use Brimica Genuair: 
- 
if you are allergic to aclidinium, formoterol fumarate dihydrate or to the other ingredient of this 
medicine (listed in Section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Brimica Genuair, if you have any of the 
following conditions/symptoms: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you have asthma. This medicine should not be used for the treatment of asthma. 
If you have heart problems. 
If you have epilepsy. 
If you have thyroid gland problems (thyrotoxicosis). 
If you have a tumour in one of your adrenal glands (phaeochromocytoma). 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
If you have difficulty passing urine or problems due to an enlarged prostate. 
If you have an eye condition called narrow angle glaucoma, which results in high pressure in the 
eye. 
Stop taking Brimica Genuair and seek medical help immediately if you experience any of the 
following: 
- 
If you get sudden tightness of the chest, coughing, wheezing or breathlessness immediately after 
using the medicine. See section 4. 
Brimica Genuair is used as a maintenance (long-term) treatment for COPD. You should not use this 
medicine to treat a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If your usual COPD symptoms (breathlessness, wheezing, cough) do not improve or get worse while 
you are using Brimica Genuair you should continue to use it, but go to see your doctor as soon as 
possible because you may need another medicine. 
If you see halos around lights or coloured images, have eye pain or discomfort or suffer temporary 
blurring of vision, go to see your doctor for advice as soon as possible. 
Dry mouth has been observed with medicines like Brimica Genuair. In the long-term, dry mouth can 
be associated with tooth decay, so it is important to pay attention to oral hygiene. 
Children and adolescents 
Brimica Genuair is not for use in children or adolescents below 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and Brimica Genuair 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. If you use Brimica Genuair with some other medicines, the effect of Brimica Genuair or 
the other medicines may be altered. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking: 
•  Any medicines that may be similar to Brimica Genuair to treat breathing difficulties. 
•  Medicines that lower the amount of potassium in your blood. These include: 
o  corticosteroids that you take by mouth (such as prednisolone), 
o  diuretics (such as furosemide or hydrochlorothiazide), 
o  certain medicines used to treat breathing conditions (such as theophylline). 
•  Medicines called beta blockers that may be used to treat high blood pressure or other heart 
problems (such as atenolol or propranolol) or to treat glaucoma (such as timolol). 
•  Medicines which can cause a type of change in the electrical activity of the heart known as QT 
interval prolongation (observed in an electrocardiogram). These include medicines for the 
treatment of: 
o  depression (such as monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants), 
o  bacterial infections (such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin), 
o  allergic reactions (anti-histamines). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor, nurse or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. You should not use Brimica 
Genuair if you are pregnant or are breast-feeding unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
Driving and using machines 
Brimica Genuair is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. In some patients, this 
medicine may cause blurred vision or dizziness. If you are affected by either of these side effects, do 
not drive or use machines until the dizziness has cleared or your vision has returned to normal. 
Brimica Genuair contains lactose 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to 
some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to use Brimica Genuair 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
-  The recommended dose is one inhalation in the morning and one inhalation in the evening. 
-  You can use Brimica Genuair anytime before or after food or drink.   
-  The effects of Brimica Genuair last for 12 hours; therefore, you should try to use Brimica Genuair 
at the same time each morning and evening as this will ensure that there is always enough 
medicine in your body to help you breathe more easily throughout the day and night. Taking your 
medicine at regular times will also help you to remember to use it. 
-  The recommended dose can be used for elderly patients and for patients with kidney or liver 
problems. No dose adjustments are necessary in these patients.  
-  Brimica Genuair is for inhalation use.  
- 
Instructions for use: Refer to the Instructions for Use at the end of this leaflet for instructions on 
how to use the Genuair inhaler. If you are not sure of how to use Brimica Genuair, contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
COPD is a long-term disease; therefore, Brimica Genuair is for long-term use. The medicine must be 
used every day, twice a day and not only when breathing problems or other symptoms of COPD are 
experienced. 
If you use more Brimica Genuair than you should 
If you think you may have used more Brimica Genuair than you should, you are more likely to 
experience some of its side effects, such as blurred vision, dry mouth, feeling sick, shaking/tremor, 
headache, palpitations or an increase in blood pressure, therefore you must immediately contact your 
doctor or go to the nearest emergency unit. Show the packaging of Brimica Genuair. Medical attention 
may be needed. 
If you forget to use Brimica Genuair 
If you forget a dose of Brimica Genuair, just take it as soon as possible and take your next dose at the 
usual time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Brimica Genuair 
This medicine is for long-term use. If you want to stop treatment, first talk to your doctor, as your 
symptoms may worsen. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Stop using the medicine and contact your doctor immediately if you: 
- 
- 
develop swelling of the face, throat, lips or tongue (with or without difficulty breathing or 
swallowing), severe itchy bumps on the skin (hives) as these may be symptoms of an allergic 
reaction. Frequency of this reactin cannot be estimated from the available data.  
 develop tightness of the chest, coughing, wheezing or breathlessness immediately after using the 
medicine. These may be signs of a condition called “paradoxical bronchospasm”, which is an 
excessive and prolonged contraction of the airway muscles immediately following treatment with a 
bronchodilator. This reaction may rarely occur (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people).  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some side effects may be serious: if you get any of these side effects, tell your doctor immediately. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
-  Muscle weakness, twitching and/or abnormal heart rhythm, as these may be signs of a decrease in 
the amount of potassium in your blood 
-  Tiredness, increased thirst and/or a need to pass urine more frequently than usual, as these may be 
signs of an increase in the amount of sugar in your blood 
-  Palpitations, as these may be a sign of an unusually fast heart beat or an abnormal heart rhythm 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
-  Sudden difficulty in breathing or swallowing, swelling of the tongue, throat, lips or face, skin rash 
and/or itching - these may be signs of an allergic reaction 
Other side effects which may occur while using Brimica Genuair: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
-  Combination of sore throat and runny nose – these may be signs of nasopharyngitis 
-  Headache 
-  Painful and/or frequent urination – these may be signs of a urinary tract infection 
-  Cough 
-  Diarrhoea 
-  A blocked, runny or stuffy nose and/or pain or a feeling of pressure in the cheeks or forehead – 
these may be symptoms of sinusitis 
-  Dizziness 
-  Muscle cramps 
-  Nausea (feeling sick) 
-  Difficulty sleeping 
-  Dry mouth 
-  Muscle pain 
-  Abscess (infection) in the tissues at the base of a tooth 
- 
-  Shaking/tremor 
-  Anxiety 
Increased blood levels of a protein found in muscle called creatine phosphokinase 
Uncommon 
-  Fast heart beat (tachycardia) 
-  Chest pain or tightness in the chest (angina pectoris) 
-  Blurred vision 
-  Changes in the sound of the voice (dysphonia) 
-  Difficulty passing urine or a feeling that your bladder has not completely emptied (urinary 
retention) 
-  An abnormal heart trace (QT interval prolongation) potentially leading to an abnormal heart 
rhythm 
Inflammation of the mouth (stomatitis) 
Increased blood pressure 
-  Distorted sense of taste (dysgeusia) 
-  Throat irritation 
- 
- 
-  Agitation 
-  Rash 
- 
Itching of the skin 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Brimica Genuair 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the inhaler label, carton and inhaler 
bag after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Keep the Genuair inhaler protected inside the sealed bag until the administration period starts. 
To be used within 60 days of opening the bag. 
Do not use Brimica Genuair if you notice that the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
After you have taken the last dose, the inhaler has to be disposed of.  Do not throw away any 
medicines via household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines you no longer use. 
These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Brimica Genuair contains 
- 
The active substances are aclidinium and formoterol fumarate dihydrate. Each delivered dose 
(the dose leaving the mouthpiece) contains 396 micrograms aclidinium bromide equivalent to 
340 micrograms of aclidinium and 11.8 micrograms of formoterol fumarate dihydrate. 
The other ingredient is lactose monohydrate (see end of section 2 under ‘Brimica Genuair 
contains lactose’ for more information). 
- 
What Brimica Genuair looks like and contents of the pack 
Brimica Genuair is a white or almost white inhalation powder. 
The Genuair inhaler is a white device fitted with an integral dose indicator and an orange dosage 
button. The mouthpiece is covered with a removable orange protective cap. It is supplied in a sealed 
protective aluminium bag containing a desiccant sachet. After removing the inhaler from the bag, the 
bag and desiccant sachet should be thrown away. 
Pack sizes supplied: 
Carton containing 1 inhaler with 30 doses. 
Carton containing 1 inhaler with 60 doses. 
Carton containing 3 inhalers each with 60 doses. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Gustav Mahlerplein 2 
1082MA Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer: 
Industrias Farmacéuticas Almirall, S.A. 
Ctra. de Martorell 41-61 
08740 Sant Andreu de la Barca, Barcelona 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tél/Tel:  80013067 
Lietuva  
UAB “BERLIN CHEMIE MENARINI BALTIC”  
Tel: +370 52 691 947 
България  
“Берлин-Хеми/А. Менарини България” EООД 
тел.: +359 2 454 09 50  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tél/Tel: 80024119   
Česká republika  
Berlin-Chemie/A.Menarini Ceska republika s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 267 199 333  
Magyarország  
Berlin-Chemie/A. Menarini Kft.  
Tel.: +36 1799 7320  
Danmark  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tlf:  80711260 
Deutschland  
Berlin-Chemie AG  
Tel: +49 (0) 30 67070  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tel:  +49 (0) 3031196978 
Eesti  
OÜ Berlin-Chemie Menarini Eesti  
Tel: +372 667 5001  
Ελλάδα  
MENARINI HELLAS AE  
Τηλ: +30 210 8316111-13  
España  
Laboratorios Menarini S.A.  
Tel: +34-93 462 88 00  
France  
MENARINI France  
Tél: +33 (0)1 45 60 77 20  
Malta  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tel:  80065149 
Nederland  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Tel:  08000270008 
Norge  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Tlf:  80031492 
Österreich  
A. Menarini Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 879 95 85-0  
Polska  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Tel.: 0800919353 
Portugal  
A. Menarini Portugal – Farmacêutica, S.A.  
Tel: +351 210 935 500  
Hrvatska  
Berlin-Chemie Menarini Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: + 385 1 4821 361  
România  
Berlin-Chemie A.Menarini S.R.L.  
Tel: +40 21 232 34 32  
Ireland  
A. Menarini Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd  
Tel: +353 1 284 6744  
Slovenija  
Berlin-Chemie / A. Menarini Distribution 
Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 01 300 2160  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V.  
Sími:   8007279 
Italia  
Laboratori Guidotti S.p.A.  
Tel: +39- 050 971011  
Κύπρος  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Τηλ:  80091079 
Slovenská republika  
Berlin-Chemie / A. Menarini Distribution 
Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 544 30 730  
Suomi/Finland  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Puh/Tel:  0800413687 
Sverige  
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tel:  0200898678 
Latvija  
SIA Berlin-Chemie/Menarini Baltic  
Tel: +371 67103210  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Covis Pharma Europe B.V. 
Tel: 08004334029 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
Instructions for Use 
This section contains information on how to use your Genuair inhaler. It is important that you read this 
information as the Genuair may work differently from inhalers you have used previously. If you have 
any questions about how to use your inhaler, please ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse for 
assistance. 
The Instructions for Use is divided into the following sections: 
-  Getting started 
-  Step 1: Prepare your dose 
-  Step 2: Inhale your medicine 
-  Additional information 
Getting Started 
Read these Instructions for Use before you start using the medicine. 
Become familiar with the parts of your Genuair inhaler. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control window 
Green = inhaler ready to use 
Dose 
indicator 
Orange button 
Protective 
Cap 
Control window 
Red = confirms correct inhalation 
Mouthpiece 
Before use: 
Figure A 
a. Before first use, tear open the sealed bag and remove the inhaler. Throw away the bag and the 
desiccant. 
b. Do not press the orange button until you are ready to take a dose. 
c. Pull off the cap by lightly squeezing the arrows marked on each side (Figure B). 
Squeeze here 
and pull 
Figure B 
STEP 1: Prepare your dose 
1.1  Look in the opening of the mouthpiece and make sure nothing is blocking it (Figure C).  
1.2  Look at the control window (should be red, Figure C). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RED 
Check 
mouthpiece opening 
Figure C 
1.3  Hold the inhaler horizontally with the mouthpiece facing you and the orange button on top 
(Figure D). 
Figure D 
1.4  Press the orange button all the way down to load your dose (Figure E). 
When you press the button all the way down, the control window changes from red to green. 
Make sure the orange button is on top. Do not tilt.  
1.5  Release the orange button (Figure F).   
Make sure you release the button so the inhaler can work correctly. 
Figure E  
   Figure F 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stop and Check: 
1.6  Make sure the control window is now green (Figure G). 
Your medicine is ready to be inhaled. 
Go to ‘STEP 2: Inhale your medicine’. 
GREEN 
Figure G 
What to do if the control window is still red after pressing the button (Figure H). 
Figure H 
The dose is not prepared. Go back to ‘STEP 1 Prepare your dose’ and repeat steps 1.1 to 1.6. 
STEP 2: Inhale your medicine 
Read steps 2.1 to 2.7 fully before use. Do not tilt. 
2.1  Hold the inhaler away from your mouth, and breathe out completely. Never breathe out into 
the inhaler (Figure I). 
Figure I 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Hold your head upright, put the mouthpiece between your lips, and close your lips 
tightly around it (Figure J). 
Do not hold the orange button down while inhaling. 
  Figure J 
2.3  Take a strong, deep breath through your mouth. Keep breathing in for as long as possible.  
A ‘click’ will let you know that you are inhaling correctly. Keep breathing in as long as possible 
after you hear the ‘click’. Some patients may not hear the ‘click’. Use the control window to ensure 
you have inhaled correctly. 
2.4  Take the inhaler out of your mouth. 
2.5  Hold your breath for as long as possible. 
2.6  Slowly breathe out away from the inhaler. 
Some patients may experience a grainy sensation in their mouth, or a slightly sweet or bitter taste. Do 
not take an extra dose even if you do not taste or feel anything after inhaling. 
Stop and Check: 
2.7  Make sure the control window is now red (Figure K). This means you have inhaled your 
medicine correctly. 
RED 
Figure K 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What to do if the control window is still green after inhalation (Figure L). 
Figure L 
This means you have not inhaled your medicine correctly. Go back to ‘STEP 2 Inhale your medicine’ 
and repeat steps 2.1 to 2.7. 
If the control window still does not change to red, you may have forgotten to release the orange button 
before inhaling, or you may not have inhaled strongly enough. If this happens, try again. Make sure you 
have released the orange button, and you have breathed out completely. Then take a strong, deep breath 
through the mouthpiece. 
Please contact your doctor if the control window is still green after repeated attempts. 
Push the protective cap back onto the mouthpiece after each use (Figure M), to prevent contamination 
of the inhaler with dust or other materials. You should discard your inhaler if you lose the cap. 
Figure M 
Additional information 
What should you do if you accidently prepare a dose? 
Store your inhaler with the protective cap in place until it is time to inhale your medicine, then remove 
the cap and start at Step 1.6. 
How does the dose indicator work? 
•   The dose indicator shows the total number of doses left in the inhaler (Figure N). 
•   On first use, every inhaler contains at least 60 doses, or at least 30 doses, depending on the 
pack size. 
•   Each time you load a dose by pressing the orange button, the dose indicator moves by a small 
amount towards the next number (50, 40, 30, 20, 10, or 0). 
When should you get a new inhaler? 
You should get a new inhaler: 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  If your inhaler appears to be damaged or if you lose the cap, or 
•  When a red band appears in the dose indicator, this means you are nearing your last dose 
(Figure N), or 
•  If your inhaler is empty (Figure O). 
Dose indicator moves slowly from 60 
to 0: 60, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10, 0. 
Dose 
indicator 
Red band 
Figure N 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How do you know that your inhaler is empty? 
When the orange button will not return to its full upper position and is locked in a middle position, you 
have reached the last dose (Figure O). Even though the orange button is locked, your last dose may 
still be inhaled. After that, the inhaler cannot be used again and you should start using a new inhaler. 
Locked 
Figure O 
How should you clean the inhaler? 
NEVER use water to clean the inhaler, as this may damage your medicine. 
If you wish to clean your inhaler, just wipe the outside of the mouthpiece with a dry tissue or paper 
towel. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
