15 September 2022               
EMA/827117/2022     
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Brintellix  
vortioxetine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002717/P46/009 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the  CHMP with  all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
3. Rapporteur’s CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation................. 14 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 2/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On July  1st 2022,  the MAH  submitted  a completed paediatric study 12709A  for Brintellix, in  accordance 
with  Article 46  of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006,  as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  study  12709A,  an  interventional,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
active-reference (fluoxetine), fixed-dose study of vortioxetine in paediatric patients aged 7 to 11 years, 
with  Major  Depressive Disorder (MDD)  is part  of the  Paediatric Investigation  Plan for Brintellix  (EMEA-
000455-PIP02-10-M09;  current agreed PIP). 
The  variation  application  to  reflect  the  study  outcome  in  the  Product  Information is  expected  to  be 
submitted  by  September  2022.  It  will  consist  of  the  full  relevant  data  package  in  a  consolidated 
submission  including  paediatric  study  updates,  once  the  CSR  for  the  long-term  open-label  extension 
study, Study 12712A, is final. 
A line listing of all the concerned studies is annexed. 
The clinical development programme in children and adolescents was initiated  in 2012,  with a 
PK  study  to  determine  appropriate  dosing  regimens  for  the  paediatric  efficacy  and  safety 
studies.  
The short-term efficacy and safety study in adolescents, Study 12710A, was completed in 2019. 
In  the  primary  efficacy analysis,  vortioxetine  (average effect  of  10  and  20  mg/day)  was  not 
statistically  significantly superior to  placebo based on the CDRS-R total  score. Likewise, neither 
of  the  individual  doses  of  vortioxetine  showed  a  nominally  significant  difference  to  placebo 
whereas the reference drug, fluoxetine, separated from placebo on the primary endpoint.  
Based  on  the  lack  of  efficacy  of  vortioxetine  in  Study  12710A,  the  independent  DMC  for  the 
vortioxetine paediatric studies recommended discontinuation of adolescent patients in open-label 
extension  Studies  12712A  and  12712B.  Therefore,  the  paediatric  study  programme 
continued,  but  only  including  children.  Study  12709A  was  a  randomized,  two-period,  single- 
and  double-blind,  parallel-group,  placebo-controlled,  active-reference (fluoxetine),  fixed-dose 
study in  children aged 7 to  11 years with  a DSM-5  diagnosis of MDD. The purpose of the study 
was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vortioxetine 10 mg/day and 20 mg/day versus placebo 
in children aged 7 to  11 years. 
Due to significant recruitment difficulties, and as agreed with EMA/PDCO in 2018 (EMEA-000455-
PIP02-10-M04),  an interim analysis was included in the protocol for Study 12709A to potentially 
terminate the  study for futility  or efficacy. If the results  of the interim  analysis met  neither the 
efficacy nor  the  futility  criterion,  the  study  would  continue.  An interim  analysis for  efficacy or 
futility  was conducted  in July 2019.  As neither the  futility  nor the  efficacy boundaries had been 
crossed at  the  time  of  interim  analysis,  the  study  continued.  Given  the  lack of  superiority  of 
vortioxetine to  placebo on  the  primary scale, CDRS-R, this  study does not  support  the efficacy 
of vortioxetine,  in addition  to  psychosocial intervention,  in the  treatment  of  children aged 7  to 
11 years with  MDD. 
Overall,  the  safety  results  were  comparable  to  those  previously  observed  in  adults  and 
adolescents, with  no new safety findings. 
Based on the negative efficacy results of Study 12709A, the DMC recommended that  the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 3/16 
 
 
 
ongoing paediatric studies with  vortioxetine (Studies 12712A and 13546A) were terminated. 
2.2.  Information  on  the  pharmaceutical  formulation  used  in  the  study 
12709A 
The study medication was  
-Vortioxetine –  10 or 20mg/day; encapsulated tablets, orally 
-Placebo – capsules, orally 
-Fluoxetine – 20mg/day; encapsulated tablets or capsules, orally 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted  a final report for: 
• 
study 12709A,   
Interventional,  randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled, active-reference (fluoxetine),  fixed-dose 
study of vortioxetine in paediatric patients aged 7  to 11 years, with  Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Study 12709A  
Description 
Study Title 
Interventional,  randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled, active-reference (fluoxetine),  fixed-dose 
study of vortioxetine in paediatric patients aged 7  to 11 years, with  Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). 
The  purpose  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate the  efficacy  and  safety  of  vortioxetine  10  mg/day  and  20 
mg/day versus placebo in children aged 7 to 11  years. 
Study Design 
– Screening Period – 5  to 15 days 
–  Single-blind  (SB)  Period  –  4-week  single-blind  (patients  and  parents)  period  of  treatment  with   
   standardized brief psychosocial intervention (BPI) and placebo 
– Double-blind (DB) Period – 8-week double-blind period of treatment  with  BPI and placebo, 
   vortioxetine 10mg/day, vortioxetine 20mg/day, or fluoxetine 20mg/day. 
–  Safety  Follow-up  (SFU)  Period  –  4-week  period  after  the  last  dose  of  investigational  medicinal   
   product (IMP). 
After 4 weeks of single-blind lead-in treatment with  brief psychosocial intervention and placebo, patients 
who  fulfilled  the  criteria  for  incomplete  improvement  (<40%  decrease  in  CDRS-R  total  score  from 
enrolment, CDRS-R total  score ≥40,  and a PGA score >2)  were randomized to 8  weeks of double-blind 
treatment  with  vortioxetine  10  mg/day,  vortioxetine  20  mg/day,  fluoxetine  20  mg/day  (prior  to  the 
interim  analysis), or placebo. In addition,  all  patients  continued with  brief psychosocial intervention  (2 
sessions) during the  DB Period. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To increase power and due to recruitment difficulties,  the study design was amended to change testing 
strategy for the  primary analysis to allow  a reduction  in sample size.  Furthermore, an interim  analysis 
for efficacy or futility  was included to potentially terminate the  study, if there was sufficient  evidence of 
an effect of vortioxetine, or a clear lack thereof. 
If  the  results  of  the  interim  analysis,  including  ≥240  randomized  patients  (either  completed  or 
withdrawn),  met  neither  the  efficacy nor  the  futility  criterion,  the  study  would  continue  until  the  pre-
specified sample size had  been reached. In addition,  the  fluoxetine  group would  be  removed from the 
study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study participants 
Diagnosis and Main Selection Criteria 
Outpatients  with  a  primary  diagnosis  of  MDD  according  to  DSM-5®  and  confirmed  using  the  Kiddie-
Schedule  for  Affective  Disorders  and  Schizophrenia  for  School-aged  Children,  Present  and  Lifetime 
version (K-SADS-PL) criteria, who: 
• had a CDRS-R total score >45  at the Screening Visit and at Enrolment 
• had a CGI-S score >4 at the Screening Visit  and at  Enrolment 
• were a boy or a girl >7 and <12 years of age 
To be included in the  DB Period, the  patients: 
• had to have a CDRS-R total score ≥40  at the Week 3  Visit and Week 4 Visit in the SB Period 
•  had  to  have a  <40%  decrease in  CDRS-R  total  score (subtracted  by  17  to  avoid  a  flooring  effect) 
compared to Enrolment at the  Week 3 Visit and Week 4 Visit in the SB Period 
• had to have a PGA score >2  at the Week 3 Visit and Week 4 Visit in  the SB Period 
Treatments 
- Vortioxetine – 10  or 20mg/day; encapsulated tablets, orally 
- Placebo – capsules, orally 
- Fluoxetine – 20mg/day; encapsulated tablets or capsules, orally 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective(s) 
Primary Objective 
•  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  vortioxetine  10mg/day  and  20mg/day  versus  placebo  after  8  weeks  of 
treatment on depressive symptoms in children with  a DSM-5®  diagnosis of MDD. 
Secondary Objectives 
• to evaluate the efficacy of vortioxetine 10mg/day and 20mg/day versus placebo during the 8 weeks of 
treatment on: 
– clinical global impression (CGI: CGI-I, CGI-S) 
– functionality  (CGAS and PedsQL) 
– health-related quality of life (PQ-LES-Q) 
• to assess pharmacokinetics of vortioxetine in paediatric patients aged 7 to 11 years using a population 
pharmacokinetic approach. 
Exploratory Objective 
• to explore the efficacy of vortioxetine 10mg/day and 20mg/day versus placebo on co-morbid symptoms 
Safety Objective 
•  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  vortioxetine  10mg/day  and  20mg/day  versus  placebo  in 
children with  a DSM-5®  diagnosis of MDD 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint 
• ∆ Children’s Depression Rating Scale – Revised version (CDRS-R) total score to Week 8 
Secondary Endpointsa 
• depressive symptoms 
– ∆  CDRS-R total score 
–  ∆  CDRS-R  Mood  (4  items),  Somatic  (6  items),  Subjective  (4  items),  and  Behaviour  (3  items)  
  subscores 
– CDRS-R responseb 
– CDRS-R remission (defined as a CDRS-R total score ≤28) 
–  ∆  General  Behaviour  Inventory  (GBI)  Depression  subscale  score,  using  the  10-item  depression  
  subscale, assessed by parent (PGBI-10D) and child (CGBI-10D) 
– Parent Global Assessment –  Global Improvement (PGA) score 
• global clinical impression 
– ∆  Clinical Global Impression - Severity of Illness (CGI-S) score 
– Clinical Global Impression - Global Improvement (CGI-I) score 
– CGI-S remission (defined as a CGI-S score of 1 or 2) 
• functionality 
– ∆  Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS) score 
– ∆  Pediatric Quality of Life  Inventory (PedsQL) Present Functioning  Visual Analogue Scales (PedsQLTM 
VAS) score in each of the  6 domains 
– ∆  PedsQLTM average score over the 6 domains 
– ∆  PedsQLTM emotional distress summary score 
• health-related quality of life 
– ∆  Paediatric Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (PQ-LES-Q) total score (items 1 
to 14) 
– ∆  PQ-LES-Q overall evaluation score (item  15) 
• pharmacokinetics 
– pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters for vortioxetine and fluoxetine 
∆ = change from Randomization 
a 
At each visit assessed during the double blind (DB) Period 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b  Defined  as  a  >50%  decrease  in  CDRS-R  total  score,  calculated  as:  (change  from  baseline 
[Randomization]) / (baseline value – 17) x100 
Exploratory Endpoints 
• co-morbid symptoms 
– ∆ Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children short version (MASC-10) total score 
• depressive symptoms 
– ∆ CDRS-R item scores 
Safety Endpoints 
• adverse events (AEs) 
• Paediatric Adverse Event Rating Scale (PAERS) assessment 
•  absolute  values  and  ∆ in  clinical  safety  laboratory  tests,  vital  signs,  weight,  height,  and 
electrocardiogram (ECG) parameters 
• potentially clinically significant (PCS) clinical safety laboratory test values, vital signs, weight changes, 
and ECG parameter values 
• Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) assessment 
• ∆ GBI Mania  subscale score, using  the  10-item  mania  subscale, assessed by parent  (PGBI-10M) and 
child (CGBI-10M) 
Sample size 
Number  of Patients Planned 
Approximately 600  patients  were planned  for  enrolment  in  the  DB  period. At  the  end  of  SB Period, a 
total  of  438  patients  with  incomplete improvement were  planned to  be randomized to  the  8  week DB 
period. 
The interim analysis was performed based on the primary endpoint data from 271  randomized patients. 
To maintain  the power at  85%,  the  sample size needed to  be increased by a factor of 1.045  to  correct 
for the loss of power due to the sequential approach. As neither the futility  nor the efficacy criterion was 
met, the study continued  and the  recruitment to fluoxetine 20  mg/day was stopped.   
The study  continued  as a  3-arm study  until  the  target  sample size of  539  randomized patients  (based 
on sample size reassessment) was reached. 
Randomisation and  blinding (masking) 
Patients who fulfilled the Randomization criteria for incomplete improvement in depressive symptoms at 
the  end of the  SB Period (Week 4)  entered the DB Period as follows:  Prior to  interim  analysis, at least 
240  patients  were  randomized  in  a  1:1:1:1  ratio  to  vortioxetine  10mg/day,  vortioxetine  20mg/day, 
fluoxetine 20mg/day, or placebo. Patients who did not  fulfill the  Randomization criteria were withdrawn 
from the  study before Week 4. 
After interim analysis, patients were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to vortioxetine 10mg/day, vortioxetine 
20mg/day, or placebo. 
Incomplete improvement was defined as a <40% decrease in CDRS-R total score from Enrolment, CDRS-
R total score >40,  and a PGA score >2. 
Statistical Methods 
• The following analysis sets were used: 
– all-patients-enrolled set (APES) – all patients  enrolled 
– all-patients-treated  set (APTS_A) – all patients in  the APES who took at least one dose of single-blind 
   IMP 
– all-patients-randomized set (APRS) – all patients randomized 
–  all-patients-treated  set  (APTS) –  all  patients  randomized who  took at  least one  dose of double-blind 
   IMP 
– full-analysis set (FAS) – all  patients in the  APTS who had a valid assessment at randomization and at  
  least one valid post-randomization assessment of the CDRS-R total score. 
•  Unless otherwise indicated,  the efficacy analyses were based on the  FAS, the  safety analyses for the 
SB Period were based on the APTS_A, and the safety analyses for the DB Period were based on the APTS. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The  change  from  Randomization  in  CDRS-R total  score  at  Week 8  was  analysed  using  a  restricted 
maximum  likelihood (REML)  based  mixed model  for  repeated measures  (MMRM).  The  model included 
the  fixed effects of treatment,  country, and  week and  the continuous  covariates of CDRS-R total  score 
at  Randomization, treatment-by-week interaction,  and  CDRS-R at Randomization-by-week interaction. 
The Kenward-Roger approximation was used to estimate denominator degrees of freedom. 
• The primary comparison was the average effect of the 2 vortioxetine (Avg. VOR) doses versus placebo 
at Week 8 in the DB Period based on the SAS lsmestimate statement.  The testing  strategy also included 
comparisons of  the  individual  vortioxetine doses versus placebo. First,  the  comparison of  the  average 
effect of  the two  vortioxetine doses versus placebo was tested  at  a two-sided  5%  significance level. If 
the result was statistically  significant, each vortioxetine dose was tested separately versus placebo at a 
one-sided 2.5%  significance level. Statistical  significance could be claimed on the  individual doses only 
if significance was claimed for the average vortioxetine dose. 
• Sensitivity analyses were performed using: 
– a pattern mixture model 
–  an  analysis of  covariance (ANCOVA) model  by  visit  using  both  the  last  observation  carried forward 
(LOCF)  and observed cases (OC), including country and treatment 
• Continuous  secondary endpoints were analysed using an MMRM  model similar to the  one specified for 
the  primary  endpoint  with  comparisons  from  the  same  model  used  for  all  time  points.  In  addition, 
ANCOVA (OC  and  LOCF)  was  performed per  visit  with  treatment  and  country  as  factors  and  score at 
Randomization as a covariate. 
• For dichotomous outcomes, the primary methodology for analysis at each week during DB Period (FAS, 
LOCF) was logistic regression with  treatment as a factor and the  score at Randomization as a covariate. 
This  was  supplemented  by a  similar  analysis based on  OC.  In  additional  sensitivity  analyses, patients 
with  a missing  value at the  week analysed were classified as non-responders/non-remitters. The same 
logistic regression was applied for both classifications. 
•  The  exploratory endpoints  were  analysed using  an MMRM  model  similar to  the  one specified  for the 
primary endpoint.  In addition,  ANCOVA (OC and LOCF)  were performed with  treatment  and country  as 
factors and the  score at Randomization as a covariate. 
•  The  population  PK  (popPK)  of  vortioxetine was  determined using  non-linear  mixed  effect modelling 
using NONMEM®.  The first-order conditional  error with  interaction  minimization method was  used. The 
structural popPK model used was the one developed in a previous pooled popPK analysis in healthy adult 
patients,  which  is  a  two-compartment  model  with  lag-time  and  with  first-order  absorption  and 
elimination. 
• Compliance was based on patient reporting and was defined as the percentage of IMP taken as planned. 
• Compliance was also assessed using plasma concentration data for fluoxetine and vortioxetine. Plasma 
drug  concentrations  below  the  detection  limit  lower  limit  of quantification  (<LLOQ)  and  unrealistically 
low plasma drug concentrations (estimated oral clearance >120L/h)  estimated from the  popPK analysis 
(vortioxetine)  compared  to  those  observed  historically  in  healthy  adult  patients  treated  under  well-
controlled conditions were used in this  assessment. 
• The overall incidences of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), 
and TEAEs leading to  withdrawal for the SB Period and DB Period were summarized by primary system 
organ class (SOC) and preferred term. 
• Adverse events, clinical safety laboratory test values, vital signs, body measurements (height, weight, 
body  mass  index  [BMI]),  ECG  parameters,  C-SSRS,  PAERS,  and  mania  subscale  scores,  were 
summarized using descriptive statistics. 
•  An interim  analysis was based on  a sequential approach, with  binding  stopping  rules for efficacy and 
futility,  and  an error-spending approach based on  Kim & DeMets  method with  rho =  2  were applied on 
the  outcome from the  MMRM  model. The efficacy/futility endpoints were not  met as part of  the interim 
analysis and a decision was made to continue  the DB period without  the fluoxetine arm. The alpha was 
adjusted to 0.02266 one-sided based on the alpha-spending in the interim analysis and the final analysis 
were based on adjusted alpha. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 9/16 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow/ Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Baseline  data 
Demographics and Baseline  Characteristics of the Study Population 
Randomized Patients 
•  Demographics were comparable across treatment groups:  the mean age of  the  patients  was 9  years 
and approximately half (49%)  were White. Slightly more than half of the patients were boys (55%).  The 
mean height,  weight,  and BMI at Randomization were similar across treatment groups. 
• Overall, the demographics, height, weight, and BMI at Randomization for the patients in the APTS were 
similar to what was seen at  Enrolment for the patients  in the APTS_A. 
•  At  Enrolment,  the  majority of  the  children  were pre-pubertal  (Tanner stage  I:  56%  of the  girls and 
65% of the boys) and 43% of the girls and 35% of the boys were pubertal (Tanner stage II to IV). 
• At  Enrolment, the  mean CDRS-R total  score for patients  in the  FAS was 63.4  points (ranging from 45 
to  95  points)  and  the  mean CGI-S  score for  patients  in  the  FAS  was  4.8  points  (ranging  from 4  to  6 
points) (corresponding to moderate to marked illness). 
• At Randomization, the mean CDRS-R total score for patients in the FAS ranged from 60.1 to 61.1 points 
and the  mean CGI-S score for patients in  the FAS was 4.6  to  4.7 points  (corresponding to  moderate to 
marked illness). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
•  In  the  primary  efficacy analysis, the  mean  change  from Randomization  to  Week  8  in  CDRS-R  total 
score was -17.48  for placebo and -19.57  for Avg. VOR, and the  difference (-2.09)  was not  statistically 
significant  (p  =  0.0937).  The primary endpoint  was  therefore not  met,  and subsequent  p-values were 
considered nominal. 
• In the  interim analysis, the mean changes from Randomization to  Week 8  in the CDRS-R total scores 
were -22.78  and -20.53  for the Avg. VOR and placebo groups, respectively. The difference from placebo 
in  the  Avg.  VOR group  was -2.26  at  Week 8  and  the  efficacy/futility criteria  were not  met.  The study 
therefore continued  until  the  prespecified sample size had been  reached and  the  fluoxetine group was 
removed as specified in  the protocol. 
•  The  analyses  of  the  mean  change  from  Randomization  to  Week  8  in  CDRS-R  total  score  for  the 
individual  vortioxetine doses  (10  and  20mg/day)  did  not  show  a  nominally significant  difference from 
placebo; the  nominal p-value was >0.05 for both doses. 
• In the fluoxetine group, the mean change from Randomization to Week 8 in  CDRS-R total score was 
-20.8  points and the difference to placebo was -3.3 points  with  a nominal p-value at 0.0531. 
• In  general, the  results of the  secondary and exploratory efficacy analyses were consistent with those 
of the primary efficacy analysis. 
Pharmacokinetic Results 
•  Vortioxetine  steady-state  exposures  in  children  were  comparable  to  those  previously  reported  in 
adolescent and adult populations both for vortioxetine 10 and 20mg/day. A total  of 77 (28%) of the 273 
patients treated with  vortioxetine were considered non-compliant based on the PK data. 
Safety  results 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• In the DB Period, the incidence of TEAEs was similar in the vortioxetine (10mg: 49% and 20mg: 47%), 
and  fluoxetine  (48%;  no  patients  enrolled  post  interim  analysis)  groups  and  was  low  in  the  placebo 
(43%)  group. 
• The  incidence of  SAEs was 2.0%  in  the placebo group, 0.7%  and 1.3%  in  the vortioxetine 10mg and 
20mg groups, respectively and it  was 1.2%  in the fluoxetine group. 
• TEAEs leading to withdrawal was low in placebo (0.7%) and vortioxetine (10mg: 1.3% and 20mg: 2%) 
groups. No TEAEs leading to withdrawal  were reported in the fluoxetine group. 
• The most commonly reported TEAEs (incidence >5%  in any treatment group) were nausea, headache, 
vomiting, and abdominal pain. The incidence of these TEAEs was higher in  the vortioxetine groups than 
in the placebo or fluoxetine group, except for headache, where the incidence was highest in the placebo 
group. 
• The majority of TEAEs were mild or moderate; no severe TEAEs occurred in >1 patient in any treatment 
group. 
• No deaths were reported. A total  of 7 patients had SAEs in the  DB Period, with  no apparent difference 
in incidence between treatment groups. None of the SAEs occurred in >1 patient in any treatment group. 
Major depression and mania, reported in the  vortioxetine 20mg  group, were considered related to IMP; 
the remainder of SAEs were considered not  related to IMP. 
• In the SB Period, 3 patients had suicide-related TEAEs captured using the standardized MedDRA Queries 
(SMQ) Suicide / Self-injury. Intentional overdose and suicide attempt  were reported in the same patient 
and intentional self-injury and suicidal ideation were each reported in 1 patient; all of these events were 
reported as SAEs. In the DB Period, 2 patients had suicide-related TEAEs captured using the SMQ Suicide 
/  Self injury; suicide  attempt  was  reported by  1  patient  in  the  placebo group  and suicide  ideation was 
reported by 1 patient in  the vortioxetine 10mg group. 
•  In  the  DB  Period,  6  patients  had  TEAEs  leading  to  withdrawal;  none  of  the  events  occurred in  >1 
patient. 
•  The mean  changes from Randomization  in  all the  clinical  safety laboratory tests,  vital  signs,  weight, 
BMI,  and height,  and ECG  parameters were  small and  comparable between  treatment  groups and  not 
clinically  relevant.  Overall,  the  proportions  of  patients  with  post-Randomization  potentially  clinically 
significant (PCS) values for these variables were low and similar across treatment groups. 
• In the  DB Period, the proportions of patients  with  elevated liver enzymes were low  and none met the 
criteria of Hy’s law. 
• Overall, the proportion of patients with worsening of severity compared to Randomization on the PAERS 
was  similar  across  treatment  groups.  The  PAERS  items  for  which  the  proportions  of  patients  with 
worsening of  severity compared to  Randomization  was >10  percentage points  in  any treatment  group 
were  irritability,  angry,  and  nausea.  The  proportion  of  patients  who  reported  none  of  these  items 
increased over  time  and  across treatment  groups.  Although  some patients  experienced worsening  at 
some point,  overall there was a tendency toward improvement in severity in these symptoms. 
•  During  the  study,  based  on  the  C-SSRS,  the  proportions  of  patients  with  no  suicidal  ideation  or 
behaviour were similar to what was seen at  Randomization. A non-fatal suicide attempt was reported in 
1 patient in the placebo group. Active suicidal ideation with any methods (not plan) without intent to act 
was  reported  in  1  patient  in  the  vortioxetine  10mg  group.  Non-specific  active suicidal  thoughts  were 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 12/16 
 
 
 
 
reported in a total  of 5 patients:  1,  1, and 3  patients  in the  placebo, vortioxetine 10mg, and  fluoxetine 
groups,  respectively. A  wish  to  be  dead was  reported  in  a  total  of  5  patients:  2,  1,  2  patients  in  the 
placebo, vortioxetine 10mg, and vortioxetine 20mg groups, respectively. 
• Overall, the mean changes from Randomization to Week 8 in General Behaviour Inventory (GBI) Mania 
subscale score, as assessed by the parent or child, were small as were the differences to placebo (<0.8 
points  as judged by the  parents and <0.5  points  as judged by the  children) and not  clinically relevant. 
A  GBI  Mania  subscale  score  >18  points,  indicating  a  potential  risk  of  mania,  was  reported  only 
sporadically, with  no clinically relevant difference 
across treatment  groups.  None  of  the  scores >18  points  were  considered clinically  significant  by  the 
investigator and none were reported as adverse events. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
MAH’s Discussion 
Efficacy results 
In the primary efficacy analysis, the mean change from Randomization to Week 8 in CDRS-R total score 
was  -17.5  points  for  placebo  and -19.6  for  the  average effect  of  the  two  vortioxetine doses,  and  the 
difference (-2.09)  was not  statistically significant (p = 0.0937).  The primary endpoint was not met, and 
subsequent p-values were considered nominal.  Likewise, neither of the  individual doses of vortioxetine 
(10  or 20  mg/day) showed a nominally significant  difference from placebo. In the fluoxetine group, the 
mean change from Randomization to  Week 8 in CDRS-R total score was -20.8  points and the difference 
to placebo was -3.3  points (p =  0.0531).  The results from the subgroup analyses of age, race, country, 
region, and  sex were generally in line  with  those  of the  primary analysis. The results  of the  secondary 
endpoints (CDRS-R, CGI-S, CGI-I, PGA, GBI-D10, CGAS, PedsQL and  PQ-LES-Q) were generally in line 
with  the  results  for  the  primary  endpoint,  demonstrating  no  evidence  of  effect  of  vortioxetine. 
Improvements  in  depressive  symptoms,  global  clinical  impression,  functionality,  and  health-related 
quality of life were observed in all treatment groups over the 8-week DB Period, however, the differences 
relative to placebo at Week 8 were generally not nominally statistically significant, with a few exceptions. 
Pk results 
•  Vortioxetine  steady-state  exposures  in  children  were  comparable  to  those  previously  reported  in 
adolescent and adult populations both for vortioxetine 10 and 20mg/day. A total  of 77 (28%) of the 273 
patients  treated  with  vortioxetine were considered non-compliant  based on the  PK data.  However, the 
results of a sensitivity analysis in  which noncompliant patients in  the vortioxetine and fluoxetine groups 
had been removed (based on PK data) were in line with  those of the primary analysis.  
Safety Results 
Vortioxetine was  well tolerated,  and  no new  safety concerns were identified.  This  study  supported the 
acceptable safety  profile of  vortioxetine,  with  nausea as  the  most  common  adverse event,  previously 
seen in adolescents and in the adult  MDD population.  Other common adverse events reported in the DB 
Period  included  headache, vomiting,  dizziness,  and  abdominal  pain.  Nausea,  vomiting  and  abdominal 
pain  occurred  more  frequently  in  patients  receiving  vortioxetine  than  in  the  placebo  group.  For  the 
majority of patients with  TEAEs, the  TEAEs were mild or moderate; severe TEAEs occurred in  a total  of 
8 patients. 
The  incidences  of  serious  adverse  events  were  2.0%  in  the  placebo  group,  0.7%  and  1.3%  in  the 
vortioxetine 10  mg and 20  mg groups, respectively, and 1.2% in the fluoxetine group. 
The incidence or worsening of suicidal ideation and behaviour was low and did not differ between placebo 
and treatment groups. The one instance of suicide attempt in  the DB Period occurred in a patient in the 
placebo group. In addition, suicide ideation was reported by 1 patient in the vortioxetine 10 mg group. 
MAH’s Conclusion 
•  In  the  primary efficacy analysis,  the  average of  the  two  vortioxetine doses  (10  and  20mg)  was  not 
statistically significantly different to placebo based on the change from randomization to Week 8 in CDRS-
R total score in paediatric patients with  MDD. 
• The mean change from randomization to  Week 8 in  CDRS-R total score for the  individual vortioxetine 
doses (10 and 20mg/day)  did not  show a nominally significant  difference from placebo, the  nominal p-
value was >0.05  for both  doses. 
•  In  general, the  results of  the  secondary and  exploratory efficacy analyses were in  line  with  those  of 
the primary efficacy analyses. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Given the  lack of  superiority of vortioxetine to  placebo on  the  primary scale, CDRS-R, this  study  does 
not  support  the  efficacy  of  vortioxetine,  in  addition  to  psychosocial intervention,  in  the  treatment  of 
children aged 7 to 11  years with MDD. 
• Vortioxetine exposures based on PK data in paediatric patients were similar to those previously reported 
in adolescents and adults. 
•  Vortioxetine  was  generally safe  and  well  tolerated  in  children  with  MDD.  The  safety and  tolerability 
profile  of  vortioxetine  in  children  was  comparable  to  what  has  been  observed  in  clinical  studies  of 
vortioxetine in adolescents and adults  with MDD. 
Rapporteur’s comment: 
The current MAH’s conclusions can be accepted for the time being. Given that the data are still incomplete 
without  the  long  term  data  from  study  12712A,  an  in-depth  evaluation  will  be  performed when  the 
complete data are submitted in the  context of a type II variation. 
Since the  MAH  has agreed with  EMA  to  submit  a  variation to  reflect the  study  outcome  in  the Product 
information in a consolidated submission including  paediatric study updates, once the CSR for long-term 
open-label extension study 12712A,  is final, no action is required at present.  Further data are expected 
in the context of the type II  variation. 
3.  Rapporteur’s 
recommendation 
  Fulfilled: 
CHMP 
overall 
conclusion 
and 
No further action required, however further data are expected in  the context of a variation 
  Not fulfilled: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex.  Line  listing  of  all  the  studies  included  in  the 
development program 
The studies should be listed  by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
Product Name:  Brintellix 
Active substance: vortioxetine 
Clinical studies 
Product Name:  Brintellix 
Active substance: vortioxetine   
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/827117/2022 
Page 16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
