ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Brinavess 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
vernakalant 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001215 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 8 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 13 
2.4.8 Conclusions on the clinical safety ...................................................................... 34 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 34 
2of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Merck  Sharp  &  Dohme  Ltd.  submitted  on  30  July  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  for  Brinavess,  through  the  centralised  procedure 
under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the Agency/CHMP on 20 September 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: conversion of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm.   
1.1.1.  Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7, of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 the application included an Agency Decision 
EMEA-000226-PIP01-08 for the following condition: atrial fibrillation on the granting of a product-
specific waiver for all subsets of the paediatric population and in the above mentioned condition on 
the  grounds  that  the  disease  for  which  the  specific  medicinal  product  is  intended  occurs  only  in 
adult population.  
1.1.1.1.  Scientific advice : 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  20  September  2007.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
1.1.2.  Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff   
Co-Rapporteur: Karl Broich 
 
 
 
The application was received by the Agency on 30 July 2009. 
The procedure started on 19 August 2009.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  6  November 
2009 . 
 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 November 
2009 . 
3of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  During the meeting on 17 December 2009, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 18 
December 2009 . 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 February 
2010.  
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 02 April 2010 . 
  During the CHMP meeting on 22 April 2010, the CHMP agreed on a list of Outstanding Issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant . 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 25 May 2010. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  response  to  the  CHMP  List  of 
Outstanding Issues on 7 June 2010.  
  During the meeting on 24 June 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  Brinavess.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up 
measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 24 June 2010.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Atrial  fibrillation  (AF)  is  a  supraventricular  tachyarrhythmia  characterised  by  un-coordinated  atrial 
activation  with  consequent  deterioration  of  atrial  mechanical  function.  AF  is  the  most  common 
sustained arrhythmia encountered in the adult population. It is estimated that 4.5 million people in the 
European Union (EU) have paroxysmal or persistent AF [Fuster et al, 2006]. The overall prevalence in 
a recent prospective study of a large, elderly European population was 5.5%, rising from 0.7% in those 
aged  55-59  years  to  17.8%  in  those  aged  85  years  and  above  [Heeringa  et  al,  2006].  Atrial 
arrhythmias  are  also  common  in  patients  subsequent  to  cardiac  surgery,  with  overall  incidences 
reported in large scale studies ranging from 23% to 35% [Mariscalco and Engstrom, 2007; Maisel et al, 
2001;  Mathew  et  al,  2004].  AF  can  cause  discomfort  and  is  associated  with  a  number  of  symptoms, 
such  as  palpitations,  chest  pain,  dyspnoea,  fatigue  and  light-headedness.  AF  can  also  lead  to  stroke, 
congestive heart failure, and an overall increased risk in morbidity and mortality. Conversion of AF to 
sinus rhythm (SR) may be accomplished with either electrical or pharmacological methods. There are a 
number of benefits associated with acute conversion of AF to sinus rhythm. Conversion to sinus rhythm 
regularises ventricular rate, improves cardiac function, cardiac output, and exercise capacity, improves 
symptoms, and improves haemodynamics. In addition, rapid conversion of AF may prevent or reverse 
the development of atrial electrical and structural remodelling associated with AF, which are difficult to 
reverse  as  the  duration  of  AF  increases.  Consequently,  limiting  atrial  remodelling  may  prevent 
development  of  refractory  AF  and  ultimately  reduce  disease  progression.  An  important  benefit  of 
pharmacological  conversion  specifically  is  to  provide  an  alternative  to  electrical  cardioversion  and  its 
associated  risks,  including  risks  associated  with  sedation  and  anaesthesia.  Other  adverse  events 
associated  with  electric  cardioversion  include  ventricular  arrhythmia  (ventricular  tachycardia  or 
fibrillation in association with delivery of non-synchronous shocks), hypotension, sinus pause, complete 
heart  block,  bradycardia,  skin  burns,  pain,  and  pulmonary  oedema.  The  available  agents  for 
pharmacologic cardioversion include: class Ic agents in particular flecainide and propafenone and class 
III  in  particular  amiodarone,  and  ibutilide.  The  use  of  most  of  these  agents  is  associated  with  rapid 
conversion  of  AF,  except  for  amiodarone.  The  commonly  reported  adverse  events  with  their  use  are 
the  development  of  arrhythmia  (atrial  flutter  [AFL]  with  flecainide  and  torsades  de  pointes  with 
ibutilide).  All  of  these  agents  except  for  amiodarone  are  contraindicated  in  patients  with  abnormal 
ventricular function. The development of an agent with a rapid onset of action, associated with a less 
4of 57 
 
 
 
arrhythmogenic  potential  that  can  be  used  in  patients  with  structural  heart  disease  is  a  potential 
advantage. 
Vernakalant  hydrochloride  (VH)  injection  is  a  novel  intravenously  administered  anti-arrhythmic  drug 
that acts preferentially in the atria designed to rapidly convert AF to sinus rhythm. Vernakalant has a 
unique potassium and sodium channel blocking profile that is enhanced under the conditions of AF and 
results in preferentially atrial selective actions. VH injection has a short pharmacokinetic half-life which 
results in a rapid onset and offset of action. The proposed therapeutic indication for VH 20 mg/ml was: 
rapid  conversion  of  recent  onset  atrial  fibrillation  (≤  7days  duration)  to  sinus  rhythm.  The  approved 
indication is: rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: 
o  For non-surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 7 days duration 
o  For post-cardiac surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 3 days duration. 
VH  should  be  administered  by  intravenous  infusion,  by  qualified  medical  personnel  in  a  monitored 
clinical setting appropriate for cardioversion. The recommended initial infusion is 3 mg/kg to be infused 
over a 10 minute period. If conversion to sinus rhythm does not occur within 15 minutes after the end 
of  the  initial  infusion,  a  second  10 minute  infusion  of  2 mg/kg  may  be  administered.  If  conversion  to 
sinus  rhythm  occurs  during  either  the  initial  or  second  infusion,  that  infusion  should  be  continued  to 
completion. 
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Europe), Inc.  filed a full stand alone application in accordance with Regulation 
726/2004  Article  3(2)(a)  and  Directive  2001/83/EC  Article  8(3)  for  the  registration  of  the  new  active 
substance vernakalant hydrochloride concentrate for solution for infusion, 20 mg/ml.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Brinavess is a sterile, isotonic, buffered concentrate for solution for infusion which is presented as 10 
ml  and  25  ml  single  dose  vials  containing  20 mg/ml  of  vernakalant    hydrochloride  corresponding  to 
200  mg  and  500  mg  of  vernakalant  hydrochloride  per  vial,  as  active  substance.  Prior  to  intravenous 
infusion  into  the  patient,  vernakalant  concentrate  is  diluted  with  either  of  the  recommended  diluents 
(0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, Lactated Ringers Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection). 
Excipients  are  citric  acid,  sodium  chloride,  water  for  injection  and  sodium  hydroxide  (for  pH-
adjustment). 
The primary container consists in a single use Type I glass vials with a chlorobutyl rubber stopper and 
an aluminium overseal.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
the 
has 
name 
chemical 
hydrochloride  which 
(3R)-1-[(1R,2R)-2-[2-(3,4-
Vernakalant 
dimethoxyphenyl)ethoxy]cyclohexyl]pyrrolidin-3-ol hydrochloride is a white to beige powder and entirely 
synthetic  enantiomerically  pure  new  chemical  entity.  It  is  highly  soluble  in  water.  In  the  buffered 
formulation, the molecule is expected to exist almost exclusively in its ionic and presumably more water-
soluble form. 
There  are  eight  potential  stereoisomers  (having  identical  molecular  composition  and  varying  only  in 
configuration  at  the  chiral  centers).  The  trans  isomers  are  known  to  be  biologically/pharmacologically 
active, while the biological/pharmacological properties of the cis isomers are unknown. The levels of all 
the isomers of vernakalant hydrochloride are controlled in the final drug substance specification. 
There  is  no  evidence  of  polymorphism  occurring  in  vernakalant  hydrochloride,  although  three  hydrate 
forms  were  found  (Form  A,  B,  and  C).  It  should  be  noted  that  the  drug  substance  is  highly  soluble  in 
water  and  is  fully  solubilized  during  the  drug  product  manufacturing  process.    The  morphology  of  the 
solid drug substance, therefore, has no impact on the physical characteristics of vernakalant concentrate, 
which  is  an  aqueous  solution.  Vernakalant  hydrochloride  produced  by  the  proposed  commercial 
manufacturing process is Form A. 
5of 57 
 
 
 
2.2.2.1. 
 Manufacture 
The synthesis involves six process steps starting from commercially available starting materials. 
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the synthesis of vernakalant drug substance. Control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have been presented. 
Batch  analysis  data  of  six  consecutive  batches  from  the  manufacturer  are  presented  and  confirm 
consistency and uniformity of the manufacturing process. 
2.2.2.2. 
 Specification 
The active substance specifications include tests for appearance, identification (HPLC, IR and titration), 
colour of solution, pH, water determination, residual solvents (GC), residue of ignition, palladium content, 
assay  (HPLC),  related  substance  (HPLC,  indirect  chiral  CE,  chiral  CE),  bacterial  endotoxins, 
microbiological examination tests (TAMC, TYMC, and tests for specified microorganisms (Pathogens))  
Batch  analysis  data  of  the  active  substance  are  provided.  The  results  are  within  the  specifications  and 
consistent from batch to batch.  
2.2.2.3. 
 Stability 
Stability  studies  under  long  term    and  accelerated  conditions  were  conducted  on  three  batches 
manufactured  by  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process    as  well  as  two  batches 
manufactured  by  the  previous  process.    Samples  were  stored  in  the  proposed  commercial  packaging 
for 48 months (one batch 60 months) at 25ºC/60%RH and up to 9 months of storage at 40ºC/75%RH 
and  under  stress  conditions.  Test  parameters  are  appearance,  clarity  and  colour  of  solution,  pH, 
specific  rotation,  water  determination,  HPLC  assay,  HPLC  related  substances,  indirect  chiral  CE  non-
chromophoric  impurities,  direct  chiral  CE  isomeric  impurities,  particle  size,  bacterial  endotoxins,  and 
microbial limit tests. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 1 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMEA. 
The results justify the proposed retest period. 
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product 
2.2.3.1. 
 Pharmaceutical Development 
The development of the  manufacturing process was guided  by the physico-chemical properties of the 
active substance (dissociation constant, solubility profile, solution pH, particle size, and polymorphism). 
The manufacturing process development was focused on the critical steps of the process. Compatibility 
studies were performed in order to determine the compatibility of Brivaness with different diluents for 
IV infusion and bags and infusion sets. 
The formulation used during clinical studies is the same that the used for marketing. 
The excipients used in the manufacture of vernakalant concentrate are citric acid monohydrate, sodium 
chloride,  sodium  hydroxide,  and  water  for  injections.  All  formulation  excipients  comply  with  Ph  Eur 
specifications. 
Brivaness is packaged in a clear, hydrolytic Class I vial in accordance with Ph. Eur. 3.2.1. closed by  
chlorobutyl rubber with FluroTec Plus® barrier film (fluoro-resin film [ETFE]) laminated on the product 
contact side of the stopper. The stopper is sealed with aluminum overseal with a plastic flip-off cap). 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
6of 57 
 
                                              
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  containers/closures  used  are  compliant  with  European  Pharmacopoeia  requirements.  The 
suitability  of  the  container-closure  is  based  on  stability  studies  where  no  interactions  between  the 
product and the container-closure system were detected. 
2.2.3.2. 
 Adventitious agents 
Not applicable 
2.2.3.3. 
 Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  methods  utilized  are  conventional  manufacturing  processes  commonly  used  to 
produce parenterals and involve the following steps: 1) solution compounding including pH adjustment, 
2)  filtration,  3)  sterilization  of  stoppers  and  overseals,  4)  washing  and  depyrogenation  of  vials,  5) 
filling and capping, 6) terminal sterilization, and 7) inspection and packaging. 
Validation  studies  have  been  carried  out  in  several  batches  and  are    satisfactory.  The  in  process 
controls are adequate for this pharmaceutical form. 
2.2.3.4. 
 Product specification 
The  drug  product  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  appearance,  identification,  assay  (HPLC, 
95-105%), degradation products (HPLC), pH, osmolality (Ph Eur), particulate contamination (Ph Eur), 
extractable volume (Ph Eur), sterility (Ph Eur), and bacterial endotoxins (Ph Eur).  
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
2.2.3.5. 
 Stability of the product 
Stability data for 3 primary stability batches and 3 site-specific stability batches are provided. Two of 
the  three  primary  stability  batches  as  well  as  all  three  of  the  site-specific  stability  batches  used  drug 
substance originating from the proposed RC route. Samples for the site-specific stability batches were 
stored for up to 12 months of storage at 30ºC/65%RH and up to 6 months of storage at 40ºC/75%RH 
and  samples  for  the  primary  stability  batches  were  stored  for  up  to  36  months  of  storage  at 
25ºC/60%RH and up to 6 months of storage at 40ºC/75%RH. The applicant stated that batches of the 
500 mg commercial presentation will be manufactured and placed on stability using the same protocol 
as used for the 200 mg site specific stability batches (i.e., stored at 30°C/65% RH and at 40°C/75% 
RH at inverted position).  
Samples were tested for the same parameters as for release with exception of identification. 
As  a  conclusion  from  the  stability  studies,  the  results  indicate  satisfactory  stability  and  support  the 
shelf life and conditions of use as stated in the SPC. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 2 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the  clinic.  At  the 
time  of  the CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  number of  minor unresolved  quality issues  having  no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
7of 57 
 
                                              
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions  on  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and  biological 
aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. At the time of the CHMP 
opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on the Benefit/Risk 
ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to  resolve  these  as 
Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Vernakalant  is  a  multi-ion  channel  blocker  blocking  potassium  channels  that  control  atrial  action 
potential repolarisation (the transient outward potassium current (Ito), the ultrarapid delayed rectifier 
potassium  current  (IKur),  the  acetylcholine  activated  potassium  current  (IKACh),  the  ATP-sensitive 
potassium  current  (KATP)  and  the  rapid  delayed  rectifier  potassium  current  (IKr)  which  is  encoded  by 
hERG), combined with voltage- and frequency-dependent blockade of cardiac sodium channels. These 
actions  result  in  prolonged  atrial  refractoriness  and  rate-dependent  slowing  of  atrial  conduction  and 
limited effects on ventricular electrophysiology. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
2.3.2.1.  Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Primary pharmacodynamics in vitro 
Vernakalant  blocked  early-activating  potassium  channels  (Ito,  IKur  and  IKr)  and  the  acetylcholine 
activated  potassium  channel  (IKACh)  that  predominantly  affect  atrial  repolarisation,  combined  with 
concentration-,  voltage-  and  frequency-dependent  blockade  of  sodium  channels.  The  atrial  specific 
currents,  IKur  and  IKACh,  were  blocked  with  IC50  values  which  are  in  the  therapeutic  concentration 
range  for  humans  (5-15  µM).  Vernakalant  did  not  inhibit  IKs  and  IK1,  which  are  important  in 
ventricular  repolarisation.  Neither  did  it  block  calcium  channels.  Similar  results  were  seen  following 
exposure to the diastereomers of vernakalant. Although hERG channels were blocked by vernakalant, 
the  potency  of  vernakalant  was  30-  to  100-fold  less  than  that  of  the  other  anti-arrhythmic  agents, 
quinidine  or  propafenone.  At  clinically  relevant  concentrations,  vernakalant  would  not  be  expected  to 
have  side-effects  related  to  pharmacological  actions  on  other  receptors  systems.  Vernakalant  or  its 
diastereomeric mixture RSD1225 had negligible to minor effects in isolated guinea pig or rabbit atrial 
or  ventricular  tissues.  In  rabbit  whole-ventricle  Purkinje  fibres,  vernakalant  did  not  significantly  alter 
the  APD  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations.  Vernakalant,  at  relatively  high  concentrations  (30  µM), 
was  effective  in  attenuating  dofetilide-induced  action  potential  prolongation  and  in  terminating 
dofetilide-induced  EADs  in  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres.  Increases  in  APD90  observed  following  exposure  to 
higher  concentrations  of  vernakalant  were  minimal  in  comparison  to  Class  III  antiarrhythmic  drugs, 
such as dofetilide. These results suggest a lower proarrhythmic potential for vernakalant than observed 
with dofetilide. 
Primary pharmacodynamics in vivo 
The  primary  effects  of  vernakalant  in  vivo  were  prolonged  atrial  refractoriness  and  rate-dependent 
slowing  of  atrial  conduction.  Vernakalant  had  less  effect  on  the  ventricular  refractory  period.  This 
preferential  effect  on  the  atrial  tissue  lowers  the  risk  of  proarrhythmia  compared  to  drugs  that 
predominantly  block  sodium  channels  (e.g.,  Class  IC,  flecainide),  or  pure  blockers  of  predominantly 
ventricular  potassium  channels  (i.e.  Class  III,  IKr  blockers).  The  rate-dependent  block  of  sodium 
channels  at  high  activation  rates  during  atrial  arrhythmia  further  biases  the  action  of  vernakalant 
toward atrial tissue rather than toward the normally polarised ventricle beating at lower rates. Based 
on  the  mechanism  of  action,  an  effect  of  verkanalant  on  QT  prolongation  might  be  expected.  It  is 
surprising  that  in  dogs,  despite  occasional  findings  in  the  14-day  repeated-dose  toxicity  study  (LAB 
study 2000-622), no effect has been observed in the studies on primary pharmacodynamics. Although 
vernakalant  blocked  the  hERG  channel  in  vitro,  it  did  produce  no  or  little  QT  prolongation  and  early 
after depolarisations (EAD), the trigger for torsade de pointes (TdP) in rabbit Purkinje fibers and it did 
not  induce  TdP  in  a  sensitive  rabbit  proarrhythmia  model.  In  contrast,  vernakalant  attenuated 
proarrhythmic  effects  induced  by  dofetilide  in  rabbit  Purkinje  fibers  and  terminated  clofilium-induced 
8of 57 
 
Torsade  de  Pointes  (TdP)  in  the  rabbit  proarrhythmia  model.  These  effects  are  most  likely  due  to 
blocking the late sodium inward current, which shortens the AP and is sufficient to offset its action on 
IKr,  in  combination  with  not  blocking  IKs.  These  actions  are  in  contrast  to  those  observed  following 
exposure  to  agents  such  as  ibutilide,  which  significantly  prolong  the  QT  interval  and  induce  TdP  at 
therapeutic  plasma  levels  in  various  nonclinical  models.  Vernakalant  converted  AF  in  various  animal 
AF-models,  exerted  a  protective  effect  in  porcine  and  rat  ischaemia-induced  arrhythmia,  and  did  not 
exhibit  ventricular  proarrhythmic  activity.  In  dogs,  vernakalant  converted  AF  with  an  ED50  of 
approximately 1 mg/kg, which is within the therapeutic range for humans. A conversion rate of 100% 
was  observed  at  4  mg/kg.  Although  decreases  in  blood  pressure  (BP)  and  heart  rate  (HR)  were 
observed at elevated exposures to vernakalant in anaesthetised rats, guinea pigs, pigs and dogs, the 
potential for cardiovascular depression appears to be low based on experiments in conscious dogs and 
anaesthetised  nonhuman  primates.  Similar  effects  were  observed  following  exposure  to  the 
diastereomers of vernakalant. The ion channel activity of the metabolites RSD1385 and RSD1390 was 
less or equivalent to that of vernakalant. However, while electrophysiologically active on ion channels, 
neither  metabolite  is  likely  to  have  clinically  relevant  effects  at  the  low  plasma  levels  seen  during 
clinical studies with vernakalant 
2.3.2.2. 
 Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Non-clinical studies have been conducted to investigate potential mechanisms underlying hypotensive 
events  associated  with  vernakalant  injection.  A  dose-dependent  left  ventricular  negative  inotropic 
effect was seen with intravenous vernakalant in a haemodynamic study in anaesthetised dogs at high 
plasma concentrations (a ≥3-fold margin above the Cmax observed at therapeutic doses). Little or no 
vasodilatory  effects  were  observed  at  these  high  concentrations.  These  data  suggest  that  a  potential 
underlying mechanism for the hypotension events seen in the vernakalant clinical trials may have been 
due  to  a  negative  inotropic  effect.  Subjects  with  underlying  left  ventricular  dysfunction  or  CHF  (who 
have  a  higher  incidence  of  hypotensive  events  after  treatment  with  vernakalant)  appear  to  be  more 
sensitive  to  vernakalant,  although  it  should  be  noted  that  vernakalant  was  not  reported  to  induce  or 
worsen  heart  failure  in  clinical  trials.  Three  of  the  4  most  common  side  effects  seen  in  humans  were 
dysgeusia, sneezing and cough. The mechanism for these events was investigated and a direct effect 
of vernakalant on histamine release (i.e. mast cell activation) is unlikely. High single and repeat doses 
in  animals  resulted  in  toxicities  predominantly,  but  not  exclusively,  related  to  neurological  changes 
(excess  salivation;  tremor;  emesis  and  tremor,  convulsion,  uncoordinated  gait,  decreased  activity, 
dyspnoea  and  mortality  at  higher  doses).  In  non-clinical  models,  vernakalant  appears  to  have  a 
significantly  reduced  potential  for  both  ischaemia-  and  repolarisation-related  pro-arrhythmia, 
compared  to  currently  available  Class  I  and  III  antiarrhythmic  drugs,  respectively.  The  effects  of 
vernakalant  on  BP  and  QT-interval  were  investigated  using  PK/PD  Modelling  based  on  data  from  the 
intravenous phase III studies and is described in Safety section.  
2.3.2.3. 
 Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  were  performed  to  examine  the  potential  effects  of  vernakalant  on 
cardiovascular,  renal,  respiratory,  central,  peripheral  and  autonomic  nervous  systems  and 
gastrointestinal tract. Exposures achieved in these studies were at least equivalent to those achieved 
in man. In these studies, no significant vernakalant-related effects were seen on the central nervous, 
cardiovascular,  or  respiratory  systems  at  clinically  relevant  dosages.  Convulsions  were  only  observed 
following  infusion  with  supratherapeutic  doses  (64  µmol/kg/min;  total  cumulative  dose  in  three  rats: 
425 to 550 µmol/kg) of vernakalant. 
2.3.2.4. 
 Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic interactions were observed between vernakalant and the ß blocker propranolol, 
the calcium channel blocker, verapamil or the anticoagulant warfarin. 
9of 57 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Analysis 
The methods of analysis have been sufficiently validated for vernakalant and its metabolites: RSD1385, 
and  RSD1390  in  plasma  from  rat,  dog  and  rabbit.  RSD1385  and  RSD1390  were  determined  in  rat 
plasma  on  the  day  of  collection.  These  metabolites  were  thus  analysed  within  a  period  in  which  the 
stability  of  the  metabolites  is  within  acceptable  levels.  The  levels  of  RSD1385  (up  to  41  ng/ml)  and 
RSD1390 (below the limit of detection of 30 ng/ml) can be considered as true values and are not this 
low  due  to  degradation  of  the  metabolites  before  analysis.  Accuracy  and  precision  of  RSD1231  was 
good. The stability of RSD1231 has been demonstrated. 
Absorption 
Most  studies  were  performed  with  iv  administration,  which  is  the  recommended  administration  route 
for the present application. Plasma concentrations of vernakalant declined rapidly after administration. 
For the tested doses, AUC of vernakalant increased in about a linear fashion with dose. For all animal 
species Cmax and AUC-values were observed that were higher than the Cmax and AUC in humans at 
the anticipated dose. Note that the administration of vernakalant in mouse, rat and monkey is infusion 
over  a  short  period  of  time  (20  sec  to  2  min).  In  dog,  the  infusion  is  performed  during  10  min.  In 
humans,  infusion  during  10  or  20  minutes  is  recommended.  As  vernakalant  rapidly  distributes  to 
tissues, the plasma profile during and directly after infusion is likely to be affected by the duration of 
the  infusion.  This  should  be  considered  when  interpreting  the  PK  data.  When  the  same  dose  is 
administered during a longer period of infusion, the plasma concentration will probably be lower than 
when a shorter infusion time is used. 
Distribution  
Vernakalant is distributed rapidly and extensively to tissues. After a single iv dose, radioactivity in the 
tissues  declines  rapidly  within  24  hours.  At  later  time  points  (72  and  168  h  postdose)  radioactivity 
could  only  be  determined  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract  tissue  and  contents,  liver  (not  in  bile), 
kidney+urine and in Long Evans rats in the eye (at relatively high levels) and skin. The latter suggests 
binding  of  drug-derived  radioactivity  to  melanin.  Protein  binding  was  low  for  vernakalant  (25-50%). 
Blood:plasma  concentration  ratios  were  generally  less  than  one,  indicating  that  vernakalant  does  not 
specifically bind to erythrocytes. 
Metabolism 
RSD1231, a diastereomer of vernakalant, appears to be formed in man, especially in poor metabolizers. 
However,  RSD1231  was  not  found  in  animal  plasma,  except  occasionally  in  mouse  plasma  at  low 
concentrations.  Therefore,  the  toxicity  of  RSD1231  cannot  be  assessed  in  animal  studies  in  which 
vernakalant is administered. The AUCs of metabolites RSD1385 and RSD1390 were low in the animal 
species tested, accounting for <2% for both metabolites in pregnant rabbit, and respectively <7% and 
<1% in dog. Cytochrome P450 2D6 appears to be the major isoenzyme able to transform vernakalant 
into RSD1385. As the enzymes involved in the transformation to RSD1390 and RSD1231 are unknown, 
potential interactions cannot be assessed. It should be recognised that these metabolites play a more 
prominent  role  in  humans,  especially  poor  metabolizers,  than  in  animals.  However,  as  the  current 
application is for single use only, the potential for interactions with other drugs is not very large. For 
these reasons, further elucidation of the mechanism of metabolism for RSD1390 and RSD1231 is not 
required. However, this may change if the drug will be used in a chronic manner. 
Excretion  
Excretion  was  only  assessed  in  rat  and  not  in  other  animal  species.  Following  intravenous 
administration of  14C-vernakalant in the rat, most of the radioactivity was excreted in the faeces (60-
69%). Nearly all radioactivity was excreted within the first 24 h postdose. Mostly phase II conjugates 
of  vernakalant  were  found  in  the  bile.  Hence,  it  can  be  assumed  that  phase  II  conjugation  reactions 
play  a  major  role  in  the  elimination  of  vernakalant.  No  studies  were  conducted  on  the  excretion  of 
vernakalant into breast milk. This is described in the SmPC. This can be understood as atrial fibrillation 
is a condition that occurs predominantly in elderly (> 55 years).  
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions  
Vernakalant and its diastereomer RSD1231 are substrates of P-glycoprotein. However, a major impact 
of  interactions  via  P-glycoprotein  is  not  anticipated  as  the  drug  is  administered  intravenously,  thus 
circumventing interactions with other drugs via P-glycoprotein during first pass. On the other hand, a 
large fraction of vernakalant and its metabolites are excreted via the bile and may thus be reabsorbed. 
10of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  interaction  via  this  pathway  cannot  be  excluded.  In  vitro,  drug-drug  interaction  studies  were 
performed  with  vernakalant.  For  propafenone  and  fluoxetine,  known  as  inhibitors  of  CYP2D6,  an 
interaction is likely. Hence, the in vitro study suggests that interactions with drugs that are inhibitors 
or inducers of CYP2D6 cannot be ruled out. However, it is unlikely that clinically relevant interactions 
occur with these drugs in clinical practice. The CYP2D6 is involved in the metabolism of vernakalant to 
RSD1385. However, the mechanism by which vernakalant is transformed to RSD1390 and RSD1231 is 
unknown.  
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
2.3.4.1. 
 Single dose toxicity 
The  acute  toxicity  of  vernakalant  was  investigated  by  a  single  intravenous  administration  in  the  rats, 
rabbits  and  dogs.  The  maximum  tolerated  dose  in  rats  was  higher  than  that  in  dogs,  but  lower  than 
that in rabbits. Acute adverse effects included neurological effects in rats (uncoordinated gait, tremors, 
decreased  activity),  rabbits  (ataxia,  head  shaking,  splayed  posturing,  reduced  proprioception,  coarse 
tremor,  decreased  locomotor  activity)  and  dogs  (tremors,  salivation,  convulsions  and  disorientation). 
These signs appear to be related to the pharmacological activity (ion channel blockade). These effects 
disappeared after 15-20 minutes after administration. No effects on body weight, food consumption or 
clinical  laboratory  parameters  were  identified.  In  plasma,  the  concentration  of  vernakalant  rapidly 
declined within 24 hours after infusion. At NOAEL doses, the plasma concentration in rats (7.5 µg/ml) 
and 10 mg/kg in rabbits (3.4 µg/ml) were in the same range as that at the proposed clinical dose in 
human (5.5 µg/ml). As vernakalant rapidly distributes to tissues, the plasma profile during and directly 
after  infusion  is  likely  to  be  affected  by  the  duration  of  the  infusion.  It  should  be  noted  that  the 
administration of vernakalant in rats and rabbits is infusion over a short period of time (2-5 min). In 
dog,  the  infusion  is  performed  during  10  min.  In  humans,  infusion  during  10  or  20  minutes  is 
anticipated.  This  should  be  considered  when  interpreting  the  toxicological  data.  Based  on  these 
considerations, no effects are expected in human. 
2.3.4.2. 
 Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated dose toxicity studies for 7, 14 and 28 days were performed in rats by a 2-minute intravenous 
infusion  and  in  dogs  by  10-minute  intravenous  infusion  once  daily.  The  results  showed  no  relevant 
macroscopic or histopathology findings. In both species, the overt symptoms were essentially the same 
as those observed in the single-dose toxicity studies. Despite the fact that in these studies vernakalant 
was  daily  administrated,  these  symptoms  consequently  disappeared  within  20  minutes  (rats)  or  60 
minutes  (dogs)  after  dosing.  There  were  also  no  findings  that  these  symptoms  became  worse  upon 
duration of treatment. In rats, the NOAEL for overt symptoms was 10 mg/kg/day in the 14–day study 
and  20  mg/kg/day  in  the  7-  and  28-day  studies.  In  dogs,  these  NOAEL  are  10  mg/kg/day  and  5 
mg/kg/day,  respectively. These  NOAEL  values  are  in  the  same  range  as  those  observed  in  the  single 
dose toxicity studies. In the 14-day study in dogs, two animals showed occasionally a prolongation of 
the QRS complex and/or some ST changes. Based on the mechanism of action of vernakalant, a similar 
effect  might  be  expected.  Further,  in  the  14-  and  28-day  studies  in  dogs,  minimal  to  moderate 
hemorrhages  and  minimal  to  mild  subcutaneous  inflammation  were  noted  at  the  site  of  injection.  In 
view  of  the  fact  that  vernakalant  is  intended  for  single  dose  administration,  these  findings  are  not  a 
concern for human. 
2.3.4.3. 
 Genotoxicity 
Vernakalant  does  not  exhibit  genotoxic  potential,  since  it  was  not  genotoxic  in  the  bacterial  reverse 
mutation assay (Ames test) and in in-vitro and in-vivo assays on chromosome aberrations. 
2.3.4.4. 
 Carcinogenicity 
Long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  performed.  This  was  accepted  since  vernakalant  is 
intended for single administration. 
2.3.4.5. 
 Reproduction Toxicity 
Segment I studies were conducted in rats, segment II studies in rats and rabbits, whereas segment III 
studies  were  performed  in  the  rats.  In  these  studies,  vernakalant  was  dosed  via  a  slow  intravenous 
injection/infusion, ~2 min in rats, and ~5 min in rabbits once daily. In the Segment I rat study, there 
11of 57 
was  no  effect  on  male  and  female  fertility.  There  was  no  effect  on  mating,  oestrous  cyclicity,  sperm 
parameters, or other fertility indices, pregnancy, and litter parameters. The litter averages for corpora 
lutea,  implantations,  viable  and  nonviable  embryos  and  percentage  of  nonviable  embryos  per  litter 
were  not  significantly  different  among  the  four  dose  groups.  In  the  Segment  II  studies,  specific 
malformations  (short/absent  tails,  vertebral  malformations,  short/absent  digits)  were  seen  in  single 
instances in rats and rabbits which had also been described for another Class III antiarrhythmic drug 
(almokalant)  and  therefore  might  have  been  classified  as  treatment  related.  In  response  to  Day  120 
LoQ,  the  applicant  submitted  two  further  embryofetal  development  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits, 
respectively,  with  oral  administration  of  vernakalant  two  times  a  day.  In  these  studies  short/absent 
tails, vertebral malformations, and short/absent digits were not observed although the exposure levels 
were  higher  than  those  obtained  in  the  intravenous  studies  and  thus  these  specific  malformations  do 
not  appear  to  be  treatment  related.  However,  based  on  the  results  of  the  oral  embryofetal 
development  studies  where  other  malformations  (misshapen/absent/fused  skull  bones  including  cleft 
palates,  bent  radius,  bent/misshapen  scapula,  constricted  trachea,  absent  thyroid,  undescendent 
testes) were observed in almost all rat fetuses from the high dose group and an increased embryofetal 
lethality,  increased  number  of  fetuses  with  fused  and/or  additional  sternebrae  was  seen  in  rabbits  at 
the  highest  doses  tested,  it  has  to  be  concluded  that  vernakalant  has  a  teratogenic  potential.  As  the 
exposure in the intravenous embryofetal development studies was not sufficient when compared to the 
human  exposure  teratogenic  effects  cannot  be  excluded  for  humans  even  after  a  single  dose  of 
intravenous  vernakalant.  For  safety  reasons  the  results  of  the  embryofetal  development  studies 
performed  with  oral  vernakalant  are  included  into  sections  4.6  and  5.3  of  the  SPC.  The  placentas 
appeared normal. No conclusions can be drawn on the potential of vernakalant to traverse the placenta, 
as  no  studies  have  been  performed.  In  the  Segment  III  study  in  rats,  the  maternal  NOAEL  was  20 
mg/kg/day,  whilst  that  for  reproduction  in  the  dams  and  viability,  growth  and  development  in  the 
offspring  was  40  mg/kg/day.  No  studies  have  been  conducted  on  the  excretion  of  vernakalant  into 
breast milk. 
2.3.4.6.  Local Tolerance  
The potential for injection site toxicity was examined in a 14-day repeated-dose IV dog study. No test 
article-related toxicity was observed. In the 28-day IV toxicity study in the dog, the microscopic finding 
of  minimal  to  moderate  “haemorrhage”  correlated  with  the  macroscopic  observation  “discolouration, 
red”  at  the  injection  site  in  all  vernakalant  dose  groups.  Minimal  to  mild  subacute  inflammation  was 
also seen at the injection site of some vernakalant-treated dogs.  
2.3.4.7.  Other toxicity studies 
Hemolytic potential 
VH at a concentration of 20 mg/ml and dilutions of this stock solution in sodium chloride did not cause 
hemolysis  of  rat  erythrocytes.  According  to  section  6.6  of  the  SPC,  VH  should  be  diluted  to  4  mg/ml 
before use. This means that at the concentration to be used clinically, no hemolytic activity is expected 
in human. 
Metabolites 
In humans and preclinical species, circulating metabolites of vernakalant include the major metabolite, 
RSD1385, a 4-O-demethylated metabolite, and RSD1390 the minor 3-O-demethylated analogue. AUC 
values  of  metabolites  RSD1385  and  RSD1390  were  low  in  the  animal  species  tested.  The  third 
metabolite  RSD1231,  a  diastereoisomer  of  vernakalant,  was  not  found  in  animals,  but  was  found  in 
human  at  low  levels,  most  commonly  after  repeat  oral  dosing  and/or  in  poor  metabolisers.  The 
potential repeated dose toxicity and mutagenicity and clastogenicity of this metabolite have therefore 
been examined. The results of these studies showed no concerns. 
Phototoxicity 
The phototoxic potential has not assessed. This is approved by the CHMP, since vernakalant does not 
to absorb light in the wavelength range 290 – 700 nm. 
Impurities 
The  proposed  limits  of  isomeric  impurities  in  the  drug  substance  are  NMT  0.2%  for  RSD1230  and 
RSD1234 and NMT 0.3% for RSD1231. These limits are qualified by the presence of sufficient excess of 
these impurities in the batches of the drug substance in the toxicology studies. 
Four  genotoxic  impurities  have  been  identified  in  vernakalant.  TCA  and  TCI-DMPE  are  genotoxic 
impurities  as  part  of  the  manufacturing  process.  Cyclohexene  oxide  and  trichloroacetonitrile  are  two 
further  genotoxic  impurities.  These  four  impurities  are  genotoxic  by  mutagenic  activity.  For  the 
presence of genotoxic impurities in the drug substance, the applicant has calculated a limit of 343 ppm. 
This limit is based on the fact that vernakalant is recommended for a single dose only.  
12of 57 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An ERA was submitted based on the EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 guideline (CHMP, 2006) together with 
a study in which the log Kow of the active ingredient was determined. The log Kow of vernakalant is < 
4.5,  hence  the  substance  is  considered  to  be  not  bioaccumalative.  Based  on  this  screening  criterion, 
VH  is  considered  not  to  be  PBT  (persistent,  bioaccumalative,  toxic).  Using  this  Fpen  and  the  dose  of 
453 mg/patient/day, PEC surface water = 9.5 ng/L, which is below the trigger value it was considered 
that  a  further  assessment  is  not  deemed  necessary.  A  low  environmental  exposure  of  the  product  is 
expected in this special case because it is a medicinal product used in case of emergency and only in a 
monitored clinical setting. 
2.3.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical  data  revealed  no  special  hazard  for  humans  based  on  conventional  studies  of  safety 
pharmacology,  single-  and  repeated-dose  toxicity,  and  genotoxicity.  With  respect  to  reproduction  no 
effects on pregnancy, embryofoetal development, parturition or postnatal development were observed 
after  intravenous  administration  of  vernakalant  at exposure  levels  (AUC)  similar  or  below  the  human 
exposure  levels  (AUC)  achieved  after  a  single  intravenous  dose  of  vernakalant.  In  embryofetal 
development  studies  with  oral  administration  of  vernakalant  two  times  a  day  resulting  in  exposure 
levels  (AUC)  generally  higher  than  those  achieved  in  humans  after  a  single  intravenous  dose  of 
vernakalant  malformations  (misshapen/absent/fused  skull  bones  including  cleft  palates,  bent  radius, 
bent/misshapen  scapula,  constricted  trachea,  absent  thyroid,  undescendent  testes)  occurred  in  rats 
and  increased  embryofetal  lethality,  increased  number  of  foetuses  with  fused  and/or  additional 
sternebrae were seen in rabbits at the highest doses tested. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Vernakalant  hydrochloride  is  an  entirely  synthetic  new  chemical  entity  with  a  potassium  and  sodium 
channel blocking profile that is enhanced under the conditions of AF and results in predominantly atrial 
selective actions and a reduced potential for ventricular proarrhythmia.   
The proposed dosing regimen is an initial infusion of 3 mg/kg over 10 minutes. If conversion to sinus 
rhythm  does  not  occur  within  15  minutes  after  the  end  of  the  initial  infusion,  a  second  10-minute 
infusion  of  2 mg/kg  may  be  administered.  The  maximum  proposed  dose  for  marketing  is  5.0 mg/kg. 
Most drugs currently in use for treatment of AF are indiscriminate, targeting channels in both atrial and 
ventricular  tissue  and  are  therefore  associated  with  life-threatening  ventricular  arrhythmias.  VH  is  an 
intravenous antiarrhythmic  agent  for  the  rapid  conversion  of  symptomatic  recent  onset  AF  (≤  7  days 
duration) to sinus rhythm in haemodynamically stable patients.  
It is the first of a new generation of AF converting agents that show preferential effects for atrial tissue 
and  limited  actions  on  ventricular  tissue.  Vernakalant  has  been  designed  to  minimise  the 
proarrhythmic risk associated with previous generations of antiarrhythmic agents.  
Vernakalant  exerts  its  anti-arrhythmic  activity  in  the  atria  by  concentration  dependent  blockade  of 
early activating potassium channels and the acetylcholine activated potassium channel combined with 
concentration-, voltage- and frequency dependent blockade of sodium channels.  
The net result is prolonged atrial refractoriness and rate-dependently slowed atrial conduction.  
The clinical development programme for VH injection consists of 12 clinical studies (six are submitted 
under  the  clinical  pharmacology  section  and  six  to  support  efficacy/safety).  In  addition,  a  Phase  3 
active  comparator  study  versus  amiodarone  was  submitted  together  with  the  responses  to  the  D120 
LoQs.  
Scientific 
procedure: 
EMEA/H/SA/938/1/2007/SME/II.  Scientific  advice  was  also  sought  from  different  EU  regulatory 
authorities: NL, UK, SE, FR.  
EMEA  was 
following 
Advice 
during 
given 
from 
the 
the 
13of 57 
2.4.2.  GCP 
The  Clinical  trials  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  The  applicant 
has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
14of 57 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
2.4.3.1. 
 Absorption  
In  patients,  average  peak  plasma  concentrations  of  vernakalant  were  3.9 μg/ml  following  a  single  10 
minute infusion of 3 mg/kg VH, and 4.3 μg/ml following a second infusion of 2 mg/kg with a 15 minute 
interval between doses.  
2.4.3.2. 
 Distribution 
Vernakalant  is  extensively  and  rapidly  distributed  in  the  body,  with  a  volume  of  distribution  of 
approximately 2 l/kg. It’s rapid distribution leads to a decrease in serum concentration by > 40% from 
peak  within  5  minutes  after  the  end  of  infusion.  A  dose  proportional  increase  in  AUC0-90min  was 
observed  in  patients  who  received  both  the  3  mg/kg  and  2  mg/kg  infusions  compared  to  those  that 
only received a single 3 mg/kg infusion. The mean Vss (123.13 L for extensive metabolisers, 112.66 L 
for poor metabolisers) was approximately 30 times the total blood volume (approximately 5.2 L for an 
average  70  kg  human)  and  approximately  3  times  the  total  body  water  (approximately  42  L  for  an 
average 70 kg human). Vernakalant is distributed into saliva. Vernakalant is not extensively bound to 
plasma proteins. The free fraction of vernakalant was 53-63% in human serum. 
2.4.3.3. 
 Elimination 
Vernakalant  is  mainly  eliminated  by  CYP2D6  mediated  O-demethylation  in  CYP2D6  extensive 
metabolisers  (EM).  Glucuronidation  and  renal  excretion  are  the  main  mechanisms  of  elimination  in 
CYP2D6  poor  metabolisers  (PM).  The  mean  elimination  half  life  of  vernakalant  in  patients  was 
approximately  3  hours  in  CYP2D6  EM  and  approximately  5.5  hours  in  PM.  Vernakalant  is  extensively 
metabolised, primarily by CYP2D6. RSD1385 is the major plasma metabolite, occurring primarily in the 
glucuronidated form, and RSD1390, is scarcely present or undetectable. Metabolism of vernakalant is 
slower  and  less  extensive  in  CYP2D6  PM,  who  have  higher  concentrations  of  unchanged  vernakalant 
systemically,  and  have  a  higher  proportion  of  vernakalant  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine.  Direct 
glucuronidation  of  vernakalant  is  more  important  in  these  subjects.  RSD1231,  a  diastereomer  of 
vernakalant,  and  its  glucuronide,  RSD1231G,  are  also  observed  primarily  in  PM,  but  at  relatively  low 
levels.  Finally,  hydroxylation  of  vernakalant,  which  is  followed  by  excretion  in  the  faeces,  was  also 
detected  in  PM.  According  to  the  applicant  no  other  CYP  isozymes  are  involved  in  the  metabolism  of 
vernakalant. The enzymes involved in the in vivo metabolism of vernakalant into metabolite RSD1390 
is  unknown.  The  metabolic  pathway  leading  to  the  formation  of  RSD1231  in  CYP2D6  PM  is  not  well 
understood.  RSD1231  is  a  diastereomer  of  vernakalant  resulting  from  the  chiral  inversion  of 
vernakalant’s  pyrrolidinyl  hydroxyl  group.  With  respect  to  the  clinical  importance,  in  a  short  term  iv 
application the issue of a possible metabolic pathway does not require further investigations.  
Consequences for genetic polymorphism. Differences in vernakalant metabolism have been observed in 
CYP2D6  PM  compared  to  EM  following  a  dose  of  vernakalant  injection.  Metabolism  is  slower  and  less 
extensive  in PMs.  PMs  have  higher  concentrations of  unchanged  vernakalant  systemically,  and  higher 
proportions  of  vernakalant  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine.  However,  in  both  EM,  representing  the 
majority of individuals and PMs of CYP2D6 vernakalant is rapidly and widely distributed, which reduces 
the potential difference in acute exposure between EMs and PMs.  Peak concentrations of vernakalant 
are comparable in EMs versus PMs after single- or double-infusions (approximately 8% higher for PM’s).  
Furthermore, PM’s were found to have a 50% lower vernakalant clearance, which resulted in an acute 
exposure (AUC0-90 min) of vernakalant for PM’s approximately 15% higher than Ems. The difference in 
total  AUC  might  be  higher  but  is  not  of  clinical  relevance.  Therefore,  dose  adjustment  based  on 
metaboliser status is not necessary. Vernakalant showed linear pharmacokinetic properties in the dose 
range of 0.1 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg following a 10-minute intravenous infusion. 
2.4.3.4.  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
VH  showed  linear  pharmacokinetic  properties  in  the  dose  range  of  0.1  mg/kg  to  5  mg/kg  following  a 
10-minute intravenous infusion. Time dependency was not studied. This was considered by the CHMP 
acceptable as VH is not intended to be used chronically. 
15of 57 
 
 
 
2.4.3.5. 
 Special populations 
Acute  exposure  is  not  significantly  influenced  by  gender,  history  of  congestive  heart  failure,  renal 
impairment, or concomitant administration of beta blockers and other medications, including warfarin, 
metoprolol, furosemide and digoxin. In patients with hepatic impairment, exposures were elevated by 
9 to 25%. No dose adjustment of VH is required for these conditions, nor on the basis of age, serum 
creatinine or CYP2D6 metaboliser status. 
2.4.3.6. 
 Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Vernakalant  is  a  substrate  for  P-glycoprotein  and  is  a  substrate  and  moderate  inhibitor  of CYP2D6. 
Albeit  no  inhibition  of  P-Gp  was  observed  in  vitro  from  patients  receiving  e.g.  immunosuppressant 
agents as cyclosporine are of relevance. According to the applicant, at present, there is no indication of 
a PK interaction with cyclosporine. As vernakalant is less than 50% bound to serum proteins, binding 
related  drug  interactions  are  not  expected.  Only  drug-drug  interactions  for  the  vernakalant  oral 
formulation were presented by the applicant. However, relevance of these oral formulation drug-drug 
interaction  studies  is  limited  due  to  the  lack  of  first  pass  metabolism  on  iv  administration  and  the 
minimal  effect  of  CYP2D6  expression  and  concomitant  use  of  CYP2D6  inhibitors  on  Cmax  and  AUC0-
90min  with  acute  iv  administration.  While  the  terminal  elimination  phase  may  be  slowed  by  CYP2D6 
inhibitors,  rapid  and  extensive  distribution  is  the  main  determinant  of  Cmax  with  iv  dosing.  A 
population  PK  study  of  the  interaction  of  CYP2D6  inhibitors,  beta-blockers,  and  the  four  most 
commonly  used  concomitant  medications  (warfarin,  metoprolol,  furosemide  and  digoxin)  with 
vernakalant  did  not  suggest  that  dose  adjustment  was  required  for  vernakalant.  Especially  as 
vernakalant injection is indicated for rapid intravenous therapy (duration of 30 minutes) and is dosed 
to a known, well-defined pharmacologic action (conversion of arrhythmia) or to a maximum of two 10-
minute  infusions.  However,  the  clinically  most  relevant  interaction  to  be  excluded  is  a  possible 
interaction with vitamin K antagonists. The Pop-PK study does not sufficiently address this issue. The 
applicant  commented  on  the  lack  of  a  formal  interaction  study  between  vernakalant  and  Vitamin  K 
antagonists. It is stated that based on theoretical considerations on the known metabolic pathways and 
excretion of warfarin and other vitamin. K antagonists, as well as on preclinical studies no interactions 
with vernakalant are expected. The points raised by the applicant were considered by the CHMP valid 
especially for the short term i.v. use. 
2.4.4.  Pharmacodynamics 
2.4.4.1. 
 Mechanism of action 
Vernakalant  is  an  anti-arrhythmic  medicine  that  acts  preferentially  in  the  atria  by  prolonging  atrial 
refractoriness  and  by  rate-dependently  slowing  impulse  conduction.  These  anti-fibrillatory  actions  on 
refractoriness and conduction are thought to suppress reentry, and are potentiated in the atria during 
AF.  The  preferential  effects  of  vernakalant  on  the  atria  are  postulated  to  result  from  its  block  of 
currents that are expressed in the atria (e.g., the ultra-rapid delayed rectifier potassium current; and 
the  acetylcholine-activated  potassium  current),  but  not  in  the  ventricles,  as  well  as  the  unique 
electrophysiologic  condition  of  the  fibrillating  atria.  Because  of  its  relatively  atrial  selective  actions, 
vernakalant  does  not  readily  fit  in  the  Vaughan  Williams  anti-arrhythmic  drug  classification,  which  is 
based  on  ventricular  activity  (for  further  discussion  on  clinical  effect  of  vernakalant  on  ventricular 
conduction, please see below under Thorough analysis of QT data). 
2.4.4.2. 
 Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The pharmacodynamic program for vernakalant is quite limited, especially as it represents a new class 
of anti-arrhythmics. In the single PD study (1235-SMH1), two dose levels of vernakalant were infused 
iv  (a  total  of  2.5  mg/kg  or  5  mg/kg).  The  results  showed  that  vernakalant  prolonged  atrial  effective 
refractory  period  (AERP)  in  a  dose-dependent  manner,  which  was  not  associated  with  an  increase  in 
ventricular effective refractory period VERP. A significant increase in PR-interval was observed with the 
higher  dose  but  this  was  not  accompanied  by  bradycardia.  However,  the  clinical  significance  of  this 
finding  could  better  be  identified  in  the  pivotal  studies.  No  significant  changes  were  detected  in  the 
ECG  recordings,  but  the  numbers  are  too  limited  precluding  robust  conclusions.  No  further  clinical 
studies were conducted to investigate other pharmacodynamic properties of vernakalant. The applicant 
mainly  refers  to  animal  data  and  PK/PD  modelling.  The  animal  data  in  addition  to  experience  from 
clinical trials show that vernakalant can lead to hypotension in susceptible patients. According to non-
clinical data, this hypotension could probably be mediated through a negative inotropic effect. However, 
16of 57 
clinical  data  investigating  this  mechanism  is  lacking.  A  population  pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic 
analysis  of  vernakalant  injection  in  patients  with  AF  or  AFL  was  conducted  to  describe  exposure-
response  relationship  for  QT  interval  and  systolic blood  pressure  (SBP)  using  data  collected  in  ACT  I, 
ACT  II,  ACT  III,  ACT  IV,  and  SCENE  2  trials.  The  main  results  are  discussed  in  the  Safety  section. 
Similarly, the cause of dysgeusia, sneezing and cough was not further investigated clinically.  
2.4.5.  Clinical efficacy  
Table E1: Clinical Studies for Vernakalant Injection 
Study 
Number 
(Acronym) 
PIVOTAL 
ACT I 
ACT III 
ACT II 
Supportive 
CRAFT 
Dose 
study 
finding 
ACT IV 
Safety study 
Scene 2 
Patients  with 
AFL 
VERI-305-
AMIO 
(AVRO)d 
Comparative 
study  
Population/ 
Disease 
Duration 
Vernakalant 
a
Dose
Phase 
III 
III 
III 
IIa 
III 
II/III 
3 
AF 
> 
hours to  
≤ 45 days 
b 
AF  or  AFL
>  3  hours  to 
≤ 45 days 
AF  or  AFL 
post-cardiac 
b 
surgery
>  3  hours  to 
≤ 72 hours 
3 
AF 
> 
hours to  
≤ 72 hours 
  >  3 
AF 
hours to  
≤ 45 days 
  >  3 
AFL 
hours to  
≤ 45 days 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
3.0 mg/kg 
0.5  +  1.0  mg/kg  or 
2.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
III 
AF    >3hours 
to ≤48 hours 
3.0 mg/kg, 
+ 
if required c 
2.0 mg/kg 
Number  of  Patients 
by Treatment 
Pbo 
Vkt  Total 
115 
221 
336 
131 
134 
265 
54 
107 
161 
20 
36 
56 
0 
236 
236 
15 
39 
54 
120e 
120 
240 
Design 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Open-label 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Placebo-
controlled 
Randomised, 
Double-blind, 
Active-
controlled 
a  Patients  assigned  to  the  control  group  received  placebo  (saline).  b  Studies  included  small  numbers  of  patients  with  AFL.  After  these  studies  were 
initiated, results from a phase 2/3 study showed Vernakalant to be ineffective for conversion of atrial flutter at the doses studied. The indication for this 
application is conversion of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. c The second dose of Vernakalant injection or placebo was administered if the patient was in 
AF or AFL at the end of the observation period following the first dose. d This study is currently ongoing. e Amiodarone, and not placebo, is the comparator 
in the AVRO study. 
2.4.5.1.  Dose response study 
The currently proposed dose is 3.0 mg/kg followed by 2.0 mg/kg if required. Animal studies and phase 
I  studies  showed  that  single  doses  up  to  4-5  mg/kg  were  tolerated  but  accompanied  with  mild 
neurosensory side effects and transient ECG changes. Therefore, the choice of investigating doses less 
than 4 mg/kg seems reasonable.  
17of 57 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRAFT (1235-1001) 
Methods 
CRAFT  was  a  proof-of-concept  phase  IIa  prospective,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
dose-ranging,  multicentered  study  to  investigate  the  tolerance  and  efficacy  of  vernakalant.  Patients 
with new or recurrent AF at baseline for a period of > 3 hours but < 72 hours were recruited. Patients 
were  randomized  to  one  of  three  arms:  2  dose  regimens  of  vernakalant  or  placebo.  The  lower  dose 
group  received  0.5  mg/kg  IV  over  10  minutes  followed  by  a  30-minute  observation  period,  and  if  no 
conversion  to  sinus  rhythm  or  termination  of  AF  was  seen,  a  dose  of  1  mg/kg  was  given  over  10 
minutes. The higher dose group received 2 mg/kg over 10 minutes and if conversion or termination of 
AF did not occur within a 30-minute observation period, a second dose of 3 mg/kg was administered. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  termination  of  AF  during  infusion  or  the  30-minute  post-infusion 
period following either dose. Secondary endpoints included the number of patients in sinus rhythm at 
30 minutes, 1 hour, and 24 hours after the end of the first infusion, and the time to conversion of AF 
to sinus rhythm. In this study, the term “termination” of AF was defined as the absence of AF and the 
term “conversion” of AF was defined as the presence of sinus rhythm. 
Results 
Patient disposition This study included 65 patients at 15 clinical sites in Canada and the United States. 
Of these, 56 received study medication and completed the study. The majority of patients were white 
(53/56, 94.6%) and male (34/56, 60.7%). Mean age was 60.9 years (min, 24 years; max, 88 years). 
Treatment  groups  were  comparable  in  demographics,  other  baseline  characteristics,  vital  signs  and 
prior medications. Prior to dosing, duration of AF in the treatment groups was 24.7 hours (mean) and 
19.5 hours (median) for vernakalant 2.0+3.0 mg/kg, 23.6 hours (mean) and 11.5 hours (median) for 
vernakalant 0.5+1.0 mg/kg, and 17.8 hours (mean) and 13.3 hours (median) for placebo. 
Efficacy  Results:  A  dose  response  between  the  treatments  can  be  observed,  with  termination  of  AF 
occurring  in  5.3%  of  placebo  patients,  11.1%  of  patients  receiving  0.5+1.0  mg/kg  vernakalant 
injection,  and  61.1%  of  patients  receiving  2.0+3.0  mg/kg  vernakalant  injection.  AF  termination  was 
significantly greater with the high dose (2.0+3.0  mg/kg) compared to  the low dose (0.5+1.0 mg/kg) 
vernakalant  groups  and  compared  to  placebo.  Only  the  higher  dose  regimen  resulted  in  significant 
termination of AF compared to placebo (a total conversion rate 61.1% compared to 5.3% for placebo, 
p=0.0003,  at  30  minutes).  At  24  hours,  the  rate  of  conversion  in  the  high  dose  vernakalant  group 
(excluding  electric  cardioversions)  was  only  numerically  higher  than  that  of  placebo:  78.6%  versus 
50%  respectively.  The  median  time  to  conversion  was  significantly  reduced  from  162  min  in  the 
placebo group to 14 minutes using vernakalant. The results of CRAFT study support that vernakalant 
(2 mg/kg IV infusion + 3 mg/kg IV infusion if necessary) is more effective than placebo in converting 
AF to SR within the first hour. At 24 hours, no significant advantage over placebo is seen.   
Choice of dose 
Doses  of  2  mg/kg  and  3  mg/kg  resulted  in  termination  of  AF  in  44.4%  and  36.4%  of  the  patients 
respectively  in  CRAFT.  In  the  pivotal  trials,  the  applicant  investigated  administering  the  higher  dose 
first  aiming  for  better  results  with  the  first  dose.  The  rationale  was  accepted  by  the  CHMP  and  is 
supported with PK data that showed that average peak plasma concentrations of vernakalant were 3.9 
μg/ml following the 3 mg/kg vernakalant, increasing further to 4.3 μg/ml following a second infusion of 
2 mg/kg within 15 minutes interval. 
2.4.5.2. 
 Main studies  
There  were  three  pivotal  studies  submitted.  ACT  I  and  ACT  III  have  almost  identical  design  and 
address patients with paroxysmal AF, while ACT II recruited patients with AF after cardiac surgery. ACT 
I and ACT III are therefore presented together.  
ACT I/III: 
2.4.5.2.1. 
 Methods 
These  were  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  multicentre,  efficacy  and  safety  studies  in 
patients  with  AF/AFL.  The  results  of  the  supportive  study  Scene-2  showed  that  vernakalant  was  not 
effective in patients with AFL and accordingly the objectives of ACT III were re-focused on AF patients 
only by an amendment. This approach was considered by the CHMP as acceptable. The current report 
focuses on the results pertaining to the claimed indication i.e. short term AF (3 hrs to 7 days). Patients 
were administered vernakalant 3 mg/kg as a 10-minute infusion or placebo. The infusion was followed 
18of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
by a 15-minute observation period after which a second 10-minute infusion of vernakalant 2.0 mg/kg 
or placebo was administered if the patient was in AF or AFL at the end of the observation period. The 
design of the clinical studies was comparable and is depicted in figure below. 
2.4.5.2.1.1.  Study Participants  
Patients  18  years  of  age  or  older  with  a  diagnosis  of  AF  ranging  in  duration  from  >  3  hours  to ≤  45 
days were recruited. Patients were stratified on the basis of AF duration of either 3 hours to 7 days or 
8 days to 45 days. In the ACT I study, a total of 360 patients were planned to be enrolled of which 240 
were to have AF duration 3 hours to 7 days and 120 were to have AF duration 8 days to 45 days. In 
the ACT III study, a total of 280 patients were planned to be enrolled, of which 200 were to have AF or 
AFL duration 3 hours to 7 days and 80 were to have AF or AFL duration 8 days to 45 days. Within each 
of  these  strata,  patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  vernakalant  injection  or  placebo  (2:1 
randomisation in ACT I and 1:1 randomisation in ACT III). 
Main Inclusion Criteria 
The  study  population  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  studies  consisted  of  adults  (≥  18  years)  who  were 
haemodynamically stable with a current arrhythmia episode of >3 hours and ≤ 45 days.  Identification 
of  the  baseline  rhythm,  initial  therapy,  and  post-treatment  care  was  according  to  standard  clinical 
procedures and the investigator’s judgment. Patients with pacemakers were included in the studies, as 
they were patients with a history of a variety of cardiac conditions, including ischaemic heart disease, 
hypertensive  heart  disease,  stable  congestive  heart  failure  and myocardial infarction  (if  the  infarction 
occurred more than 30 days prior to dosing). Serum potassium was corrected if < 3.5 mEq/L. Patients 
on background cardiac rate control drugs such as beta-adrenergic blocking agents, calcium antagonists, 
or  digoxin  were  allowed  in  the  study.  Patients  were  also  allowed  concurrent  oral  antiarrhythmic 
medication. 
Main Exclusion Criteria 
Patients  were  excluded  if  they  had  unstable  New  York  Heart  Association  (NYHA)  Class  IV  congestive 
heart failure (CHF), or heart failure requiring intravenous inotrope therapy. Patients with prolonged QT 
syndromes,  myocardial  infarction  or  cardiac  surgery  within  the  past  30  days,  or  acute  coronary 
syndrome  were  also  excluded.  Patients  with  hypertrophic  obstructive  cardiomyopathy,  restrictive 
cardiomyopathy,  constrictive  pericarditis  or  significant  valvular  stenosis  were  excluded  from  the  later 
stages of the ACT III study by a protocol amendment. Adequate warnings are implemented in the SPC 
to indicate these excluded subgroups. Patients who develop AF after cardiac surgery were included in 
the ACT II study. 
19of 57 
 
 
 
2.4.5.2.1.2.  Treatments 
Patients  were  to  receive  a  10-minute  infusion  of  vernakalant  injection  (3.0  mg/kg)  or  placebo.  The 
infusion  was  followed  by  a  15-minute  observation  period  after  which  a  second  10-minute  infusion  of 
vernakalant 2.0 mg/kg or placebo was administered if the patient was in AF or AFL at the end of the 
observation period. For patients who weighed > 113 kg, the dose was to be based on a weight of 113 
kg. The infusion was to be discontinued if the uncorrected QT interval increased to >0.550 seconds or 
by  >25%;  HR  decreased  between  40  and  50  bpm  with  symptoms  or  to  <40  bpm;  SBP  increased  to 
>190  mm  Hg  or  decreased  to  <85  mm  Hg;  new  bundle-branch  block  developed  or  QRS  increased 
≥50%; or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, a sinus pause of ≥5 seconds, or intolerable side effects 
occurred. Study completion was defined as participation in the study through the last protocol-defined 
assessment (telephone follow-up at 30 days post-dose). The study blind was maintained until database 
lock unless un-blinding was required for safety reasons. 
2.4.5.2.1.3.  Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  the  effectiveness  of  vernakalant  injection  3.0  mg/kg, 
followed by 2.0 mg/kg if required, in the conversion of AF (and AFL in ACT III) to sinus rhythm for a 
minimum  duration  of  1  minute,  within  90  minutes  of  first  exposure  to  study  drug  (time  0  =  start  of 
first infusion). The secondary objective was to assess the safety of vernakalant injection in this patient 
population. 
2.4.5.2.1.4.  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint for both pivotal trials was the proportion of patients with AF of > 3 hours 
to  ≤  7  days  duration  who  converted  to  sinus  rhythm  for  a  minimum  duration  of  1  minute  within  90 
minutes  of  first  exposure  to  study  drug.  Although  patients  with  durations  of  AF  till  45  days  were 
recruited,  the  primary  endpoint  focused  on  patients  with  paroxysmal  AF  (≤7  days).  Pharmacological 
cardioversion is considered more effective in this subgroup. In the CHMP SA given to the applicant, the 
chosen  primary  endpoint  was  considered  appropriate  and  in  line  with  clinical  requirements  for  rapid 
pharmacological response, however, the clinical relevance of the conversion to SR of 1 minute duration 
was  questioned.  A  clinically  relevant  conversion  to  SR  was  considered  to  be  at  least  of  24-48  hours 
duration. The time limit of 1.5 hours and the fact that electric cardioversion and other therapies were 
allowed  after  2  hours  limit  the  possibility  to  observe  the  spontaneous  cardioversion  rate.  Analyses  of 
maintenance  of  sinus  rhythm  for  longer  periods  are  currently  submitted.  The  CHMP  scientific  advice 
also  proposed  further  analysis  for  the  duration  of  AF  e.g.  less  than  48  hours  and  AF  of  unknown 
duration,  which  will  be  discussed  below.  A  Clinical  Events  Committee  (CEC)  composed  of  four 
cardiologists  was  employed  to  confirm  efficacy  endpoints.  CEC  members  were  blinded  to  treatment 
assignment.  
2.4.5.2.1.5.  Sample size 
In ACT I and ACT III, the study plan called for 360 and 280 patients to be stratified at enrolment based 
on duration of AF (and AFL in ACT III) respectively. Stratification was to result in 240 and 200 patients 
with short-duration AF and 120 and 80 patients with long-duration AF respectively.  
2.4.5.2.1.6.  Randomisation 
Patients within each cohort were then randomly assigned to treatment in a 2:1 (vernakalant:placebo) 
ratio in ACT I and a 1:1 in ACT III. 
2.4.5.2.1.7.  Blinding (masking) 
The  study  blind  was  maintained  until  data  base  lock  except  for  study  ACT  II  which  had  an  interim 
safety analysis (an additional interim safety analysis was added to ACT II in support of a requirement 
by the FDA; ACT II is further discussed below). 
20of 57 
 
2.4.5.2.1.8.  Statistical methods 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  for  the  ACT  I/ACT  III  pooled  pivotal  data  was  conducted  using  the  full 
analysis  set  defined  as  all  randomised  patients  with  AF  who  received  any  amount  of  study  drug 
(vernakalant injection or placebo). The same population was used for primary efficacy analysis in the 
individual  studies  and  had  been  defined  a  priori  in  the  respective  analysis  plans.  The  statistical 
methods were considered by the CHMP acceptable. 
2.4.5.2.2.  Results 
Patient disposition  
Patient disposition in ACT I and ACT III is presented by treatment in table E4.  
Table E4: Patient Disposition in ACT I and ACT III. 
Of  the  patients  randomized  in  ACT  I,  twenty  one  patients  (8.9%)  in  the  vernakalant  group  versus  5 
patients (4.2%) in the placebo group, withdrew from the study. Almost half of these patients withdrew 
due  to  spontaneous  conversion  to  SR.  This  emphasizes  the  importance  of  knowing  the  spontaneous 
conversion  rate  in  this  population.  Most  importantly,  3  patients  died  (rupture  aortic  aneurysm, 
pulmonary  edema  and  pneumonia  and  respiratory  arrest).  The  causes  of  death  were  considered  not 
related  to  vernakalant.  Two  cases  of  myocardial  infarction  also  led  to  withdrawal.  The  list  of 
withdrawals  is  more  limited  in  ACT  III:  (only  2  patients  in  either  group).  The  patient’s  withdrawal  in 
the vernakalant group due to ventricular fibrillation ended in death related to study drug.  
2.4.5.2.2.1.  Baseline data 
No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  treatments  in  the  overall  population  or  short-
duration  cohort  for  the  baseline  demographic  parameters  (age,  sex).  Still,  the  representation  of 
females (29.4%) and to a lesser extent older patients ≥ 75 years (19%) appears quite limited. In the 
pooled  analysis,  treatment  groups  were  balanced  with  respect  to  baseline  use  of  rate  and  rhythm 
control  medications  and  patients  with  implanted  rate  control  devices.  However,  some  significant 
differences  in  the  background  use  of  antiarrhythmic  drugs  (AAD)  was  observed  within  the  individual 
studies,  in  particular:  in  ACT  III,  the  use  of  Class  I  AAD  was  significantly  more  in  the  vernakalant 
group  (18.6%  vs.  7.1%  for  placebo  p=  0.026)  and  the  use  of  digoxin  was  significantly  more  in  the 
placebo group (15.5% vs. 5.8% for vernakalant p=0.041). The use of sotalol in ACT I was also higher 
(14.3%)  than  ACT  III  (6.3%).  Such  discrepancies  in  individual  studies  are  probably  corrected  when 
examining  the  primary  efficacy  population.  Most  of  the  recruited  patients  presented  with  AF-related 
symptoms  (89.5%  and  79.4%  in  ACT  I  and  ACT  III  respectively).  The  reported  symptoms  included 
palpitation, rapid heart rate and fatigue. Groups were generally balanced in their background medical 
history.  It  can  be  observed  that  the  recruited  patients  were  not  a  high  risk  group,  with  hypertension 
recorded  in only  42%, ischemic  heart  disease  in  (10-20%),  myocardial infarction in  6-10%.  CHF  was 
present in around 15-19% (Table E3).  
21of 57 
 
 
 
Table E3: Summary of Baseline Medical History in ACT I and ACT III. 
Only in ACT III detailed information regarding CHF was presented. The results show that the recruited 
patients  were  mainly  of  NYHA  I/II  classes.  This  is  worrisome  especially  because  of  the  reported 
hypotension. No robust conclusions can be made on the administration of vernakalant in patients with 
NYHA III. 
2.4.5.2.2.2.  Outcomes and estimation 
After  the  first  dose,  39.8%  (92/231)  of  vernakalant-treated  patients  in  the  short  duration  AF  cohort 
converted  to  sinus  rhythm  (compared  to  1.3%  [2/159]  of  placebo  patients);  57%  of  the  primary  AF 
population received a second dose (n=132/231). In the short duration AF cohort who did not convert 
to  sinus  rhythm  and  thus  received  a  second  dose,  20%  (n=26/132)  converted  to  sinus  rhythm 
subsequent  to  initiation  of  the  second  infusion  (compared  to  2.6%  [4/156]  of  placebo  patients  that 
received  a  second  dose).  The  additive  effect  of  the  second  dose,  if  any,  cannot  be  independently 
established.  In  total,  the  administration  of  vernakalant  resulted  in  a  conversion  rate  of  51.1% 
compared  to  3.8%  in  the  placebo  group.  This  means  a  total  percent  difference  of  47.3%  (95%  CI: 
40.2-54.4) between the vernakalant and placebo groups. Efficacy results were significant in the pooled 
analysis as well as in the individual studies (table E4). 
22of 57 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table  E4:  Conversion  of  Atrial  Fibrillation  to  Sinus  Rhythm  by  Cohort  and  for  the  Overall 
Population - ACT I/III Pooled Pivotal Data 
The results are comparable to those reported with other AAD e.g flecainide or ibutilide. No significant 
results were shown for vernakalant in the long duration AF subgroup. This is in line with previous data 
showing that both electric and pharmacological cardioversion are less effective in long standing AF and 
supports the limitation in the indication to the duration of AF to 7 days. Patients with an AF duration of 
<  48  hours  are  considered  of  particular  clinical  importance,  as  no  anti-coagulation  is  needed  in  this 
subgroup before pharmacological conversion, if no other indication co-exists. It is re-assuring to know 
that the results in this subgroup were also consistent with the short term cohort (61.2% in vernakalant 
versus  4.9%  in  placebo  group).  Patients  with  unknown  AF  duration,  a  group  that  could  also  be 
encountered in real practice were not included in the clinical program. The time frame of the primary 
endpoint i.e. 90 minutes is too short to prove a clinically relevant maintenance of SR. The current data 
show  that  SR  was  effectively  maintained  beyond  90  minutes,  97.2%  and  93%  at  24  hours/discharge 
and 7 days respectively and for patients not on concomitant AAD: 100% and 98.2% respectively (table 
E5). It is not clear why patients not on concomitant AAD would have better efficacy in maintenance of 
SR and whether the results are statistically significant compared to the reported values in the placebo 
group  (83.3%)(the  numbers  of  placebo  patients  who  spontaneously  converted  to  SR  are  too  few  to 
allow  reasonable  comparison;  n=  6  patients  in  each  placebo  subgroup).  The  applicant  states  that 
details  on  timing  of  AAD  use  were  not  collected  during  the  ACT  I  and  ACT  III  studies  and  that  this 
different  use  may  reflect  differences  in  co-morbidities  as  well.  However,  no  claims  are  made  on  the 
maintenance of SR. 
23of 57 
 
 
 
Table E5: Life-Table Estimate of the Maintenance of Sinus Rhythm for Patients Who Converted to Sinus Rhythm Within 
90 Minutes of First Exposure to Study Drug - ACT I/ACT III Pooled Pivotal Data 
Further  analysis  showed  that  approximately  30%  of  placebo  patients  had  spontaneous  conversion  by 
hour  24  (excluding  pharmacological/electrical  cardioversions),  still  showing  an  advantage  for 
vernakalant (97%). Another issue is the data regarding patients who did not convert to SR within 1.5 
hours but subsequently converted within 24 hours. According to the applicant, patients recruited in the 
ACT  I/ACT  III  program  are  patients  in  which  the  decision  to  cardiovert  was  considered  necessary.  In 
patients who failed to convert to SR within 24 hours, cardioversion was attempted in 70%, making it 
difficult to assess the natural history of the AF patients. For the responders group, HR at follow-up was 
61.5  bpm  compared  to  84.7  bpm  in  non-responders.  Vernakalant  also  significantly  reduced  the  AF-
related  symptoms  (50.2%  vernakalant  vs  73.0%  placebo;  P<0.0001).  Efficacy  was  comparable  when 
conducted for the per protocol population. No significant effect was shown in the long duration cohort, 
or in patients with AFL. 
24of 57 
 
 
2.4.5.2.2.3.  Ancillary analyses 
Comparison of Efficacy Results in Subpopulations 
Vernakalant  injection  was  effective  across  a  broad  range  of  subgroups,  including  gender,  age, 
background  use  of  rate  or  rhythm  control  medication  and  relevant  medical  history  (CHF,  MI, 
hypertension,  IHD,  valvular  heart  disease,  and  structural  heart  disease).  Additional  analyses  on  the 
primary  AF  efficacy  population  were  performed  in  the  following subgroups:  renal impairment,  hepatic 
impairment,  use  of  CYP2D6  inhibitors,  CYP2D6  substrates,  QT  prolonging  medications  and  patients 
with  implanted  pacemakers.  Within  the  limits  of  these  post-hoc  analyses  (subgroups  were  not  pre-
specified and no multiplicity adjustments were made), there were no significant differences in response 
to vernakalant injection within any subgroup. However, there are trends towards decreased efficacy in 
elderly patients (≥ 75 years old), those with a history of CHF, patients on digoxin and patients treated 
with  Class  I  antiarrhythmics.  The  number  of  non-white  patients  was  very  low  (n=9  in  short-duration 
cohort)  and  does  not  allow  an  adequate  assessment  of  efficacy  by  race.  These  findings  are  based  on 
uni-variate logistic regression and no attempt to adjust for confounding factors was made. 
Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction LVEF:  EF data was available only in a minority of the Phase III short-
duration AF patients that were treated with vernakalant (N = 185/498) and collection of EF data was 
not pre-specified. A post-hoc analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between efficacy of 
vernakalant  and  LVEF  in  patients  from  ACT  II,  ACT  III  and  ACT  IV.  The  percentage  of  patients 
converting from AF to sinus rhythm was similar for patients with normal LVEF function and mild LVEF 
dysfunction. Few patients had either moderate or severe LVEF dysfunction.  
Implanted Rate Control Device: ACT I/III pooled pivotal data included 23 patients with pacemakers (12 
vernakalant;  11  placebo).  In  the  overall  population,  4  patients  with  pacemakers  (3  vernakalant;  1 
placebo) had termination of AF within 90 minutes of first receiving study drug.  
Renal  and  Hepatic  Impairment:  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  response  to  vernakalant 
injection in patients with hepatic impairment (47.9% in patients with normal hepatic function vs 36.8% 
in  patients  with  abnormal  hepatic  function),  but  there  was  a  lower  response  for  renal  impairment 
(55.5% in patients with normal renal function vs 34.1% in renal impairment).  Conversion rates were 
significantly higher in the vernakalant group compared with placebo for all categories. 
CYP2D6  Genotype:  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  response  to  vernakalant  injection  by 
genotype. The treatment difference in the rate of conversion of AF to SR in the short duration cohort 
was 41.8% in extensive metabolisers vs 33.3% in poor metabolisers. 
Concomitant  medications:  Conversion  rates  were  significantly  higher  in  the  vernakalant  group 
compared  with  placebo  for  all  medication  categories,  with  the  exception  of  use  of  digoxin.  The 
treatment  difference  for  use  vs.  non-use  of  digoxin  was  16.3%  vs  51.9%  respectively  (P  =  0.1897). 
For other rate control medications, no significant difference was seen. With rhythm control medications, 
the  treatment  difference  for  use  vs  non-use  of  Class  I  and  Class  III  antiarrhythmic  medications  was 
20.0%  vs  50.7%  for  Class  I  antiarrhythmics  (p=  0.9680),  and  55.8%  vs  45.3%  for  Class  III 
antiarrhythmics.  Although  conversion  rate  is  lower  with  vernakalant  in  the  subgroups  of  patients  co-
administered digoxin or class I AADs, the conversion rate is still higher than that in the placebo group. 
The  reason  of  such  reduced  efficacy is  speculative,  but  may  be  related  to  the  patient’s  condition  e.g. 
longer  duration  of  AF  in  patients  on  digoxin,  or  general  refractoriness  to  AADs.  A  PK  interaction  is 
unlikely. Furthermore in the case of Class I AADs, the number of patients is too few (n=25) precluding 
robust  assessment.  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  response  to  vernakalant  injection  in 
patients  taking  concomitant  CYP2D6  inhibitors,  CYP2D6  substrates  or  QT  prolonging  medications 
compared to those not taking such medications. 
Medical History:  Patients with the following medical conditions were scarcely represented in ACT I/III: 
CHF (n=42), history of myocardial infarction (n=25), ischemic heart disease (n=50) or valvular heart 
disease (n=36) (table E3, above). Most of these medical conditions were adequately presented in ACT 
II, except for patients with CHF. These patients were poorly represented in the studies. In addition, no 
adequate  information  regarding  their  NYHA  status  is  submitted.  From  the  current  results,  the 
treatment  difference  in  the  rate  of  conversion  of  AF  to  sinus  rhythm  in  the  short  duration  cohort  for 
history  vs.  no  history  of  the  condition  was  26.9%  vs.  50.0%  for  CHF  (NYHA  I/II),  raising  concerns 
about the efficacy in these patients. Adequate warnings are currently implemented in the SPC. Within 
the  primary  safety  population,  information  on  LVEF  available  from  echocardiography  studies  was 
25of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available for 162 of the 773 vernakalant-treated patients (n=150 LVEF ≥ 35% and n=12 LVEF < 35%) 
and  49  of  the  335  placebo  patients  (n=44  LVEF  ≥  35%  and  n=5  LVEF  <  35%).  This  indicates  some 
inadequacies  in  the  performance  of  the  trials.    Due  to  the  limited  experience  in  such  patients,  a 
warning is implemented in the SPC. Degrees of hepatic impairment were not adequately defined in the 
submitted  clinical  studies;  and  specifically  patients  with  advanced  hepatic  impairment  were  not 
properly  represented.  A  warning  in  the  SPC  is  implemented  against  the  use  of  vernakalant  in  such 
patients.  Around  half  of  the  recruited  patients  suffered  from  renal  impairment.  The  treatment 
difference  in  the  rate  of  conversion  of  AF  to  sinus  rhythm  in  the  short  duration  cohort  was  55.5%  in 
patients  with  normal  renal  function  vs.  34.1%  in  the  renally  impaired.    Recruited  patients  with 
pacemakers were very few to allow conclusions; a relevant warning is currently included in the SPC. 
ACT II: 
3.4.5.2.3 Methods 
This  was  a  phase  III,  multinational  (Europe,  North  and  South  America  and  Asia),  prospective, 
randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  in  adult  patients  (≥  18  years)  with  documented 
normal  sinus  rhythm  prior  to  undergoing  CABG  and/or  valvular  surgery.  Patients  who  developed 
sustained AF (or AFL) for a duration > 3 hours and ≤ 72 hours within 24 hours to 7 days after surgery 
qualified  for  study  screening  procedures  and  subsequent  enrolment  if  entry  criteria  were  met.  As  the 
duration  of  AF  in  ACT  II  is  less  than  that  of  ACT  I/III,  relevant  labelling  in  section  4.1  is  currently 
implemented.  
3.4.5.2.3.1 Study Participants  
Apart from the target group of ACT II, the inclusion and exclusion criteria do not appear to vary from 
those employed in ACT I/III. The study plan called for 210 patients randomly assigned to treatment in 
a 2:1 ratio (vernakalant:placebo). Patients were recruited who had documented normal sinus rhythm 
within 2 weeks before CABG and/or valvular surgery, patients who had CABG and/or valvular surgery 
within  the  last  7  days,  patients  who  had,  at  the  time  of  randomization,  documented  AF  or  AFL 
(duration 3 to 72 hours)  with onset of AF or AFL occurring between 24 hours and 7 days after CABG 
and/or valvular surgery.  
3.4.5.2.3.2 Treatments 
Same as in ACT I/III. 
3.4.5.2.3.3 Objectives 
The primary objective was to demonstrate the effectiveness of vernakalant injection (3.0 mg/kg + 2.0 
mg/kg) compared to placebo in the conversion of atrial arrhythmia (AF or AFL) to SR in patients who 
developed  the  specified  arrhythmia  subsequent  to  recent  CABG  and/or  valvular  surgery.  Secondary 
objectives  were  to  examine  the  rate  of  conversion  of  arrhythmia  to  sinus  rhythm  and  to  assess  the 
overall safety of vernakalant in this patient population. 
3.4.5.2.3.4 Endpoints and Statistical methods 
The primary and secondary endpoints were comprable to those used in ACT I/III. Consistent with the 
indication  sought  by  this  application,  this  section  focuses  on  efficacy  results  supporting  vernakalant 
injection for the rapid conversion of AF to sinus rhythm and excludes the patients with AFL. 
3.4.5.2.4 Results 
3.4.5.2.4.1 Patient disposition 
The majority of the recruited patients were white (94%) and male (73.3%), with a mean age of 68.3. 
The  treatment  groups  were  comparable  regarding  the  baseline  demographics.  Most  patients  had  a 
baseline diagnosis of AF (150/161, 93.2%). Further results concern only AF patients. The surgery type 
(CABG  versus  valvular)  was  balanced  between  the  groups.  The  majority  were  scheduled  for  CABG 
surgery  (65.0%  vernakalant,  66.0%  placebo)  with  the  rest  undergoing  valvular  surgery  (27.0% 
vernakalant,  20.0%  placebo)  or  both  surgeries  (8.0%  vernakalant,  14.0%  placebo).  No 
discontinuations  were  recorded  in  either  group  during  the  first  dose.  In  the  vernakalant  group  three 
26of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinuations due to adverse events (hypotension, complete AV-block, RBBB) occurred, of which the 
first  two  were  followed  by  successful  conversion.    One  case  of  discontinuation  of  unknown  reason 
occurred in the placebo group. The use of rate control medications was balanced. LVEF was normal in 
more than half of the patients, patients with LVEF<35% were minimally represented.  
3.4.5.2.4.2 Efficacy Results 
Significantly  more  patients  in  the  vernakalant  group  (47%)  converted  to  SR  within  90  min  than 
placebo group (14%)(difference of 33%; p= 0.0001; CI: 19.3- 46.7).  The results are generally in line 
with those reported previously in ACT I/III. However, it is noted that the spontaneous conversion rate 
in  the  placebo  group  is  higher  in  ACT  II  (14%  vs  4%  in  the  ACT  I/III).  This  probably  reflects  the 
different  etiology  of  the  AF  where  temporary  adrenergic  stress  could  be  playing  an  important  role  in 
the ACT II population; with time more spontaneous conversion is expected. Maintenance of SR beyond 
the 90 min limit shows more disappointing results in ACT II. The life-table estimate of maintenance of 
sinus  rhythm  at  24  hours  or  7  days is  59.5%  and  56.9 %  in ACT  II  compared  to  97.2%  and  93%  in 
ACT  I/III  respectively.  This  difference  may  again  represent  the  different  underlying  pathology. 
Furthermore,  vernakalant  did  not  significantly  improve  AF-related  symptoms  compared  to  placebo 
(P=0.185).    Although  the  results  are  less  impressive  that  those  reported  in  ACT  I/III,  efficacy  of 
vernakalant in patients with post-cardiac surgery AF is still considered clinically relevant. 
2.4.5.3.  Analysis performed across trials  
Efficacy Across All Phase II and III Studies 
A  comparison  of  conversion  rates  of  short-duration  AF  to  sinus  rhythm  across  the  phase  II  and  III 
studies is shown in figure E3. 
Figure E3: Conversion rates of short duration AF to sinus rhythm across the main studies. 
CRAFT: dosing was 2 mg/kg + 3 mg/kg; data represents % in sinus rhythm at 1 hour post dosing. AF duration >3 to 72 hours. ACT I, III and IV: AF >3 
hours  to  ≤  7  days;  ACT  IV:  a  placebo  group  was  not  included  in  this  open-label  study;  ACT  II:  AF  post  coronary  artery  bypass  graft  and/or  valvular 
surgery; AF duration >3 to <72 hours. 
Across  the  phase  II/III,  vernakalant  administration  did  not  affect  the  response  of  the  patients  to 
subsequent electric cardioversion, in case of vernakalant failure. Electrical cardioversion was successful 
in  90.2%  (166/184)  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  and  87.8%  (237/270)  of  patients  in  the 
vernakalant group. 
2.4.5.4.  Supportive studyies 
ACT IV 
The main objective of ACT IV was to evaluate the safety of vernakalant injection in the proposed dose 
to increase the safety database (n=236). However, the study did not include any special subgroups of 
interest  not  previously  included  in  the  pivotal  studies  e.g.  more  severe  forms  of  CHF.  The  study  was 
open-  label  and  not  controlled,  limiting  its  value  as  an  efficacy  study.  Still  efficacy  results  are  in  line 
27of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  those  reported  previously  in  the  pivotal  studies:  50.9%  (95%  CI  43.3%,  58.5%)  of  the 
vernakalant treated patients experienced a treatment-induced conversion from AF to sinus rhythm. But 
as noticed with ACT II, the proportion of patients who maintained SR till 24 hours (76.5%) and 7 days 
(63.5%) was less than those reported with ACT I/III.  
SCENE 2 
SCENE  2  aimed  to  investigate  the  efficacy  of  vernakalant  in  AFL.  The  study  design  and  endpoints 
followed that of the pivotal studies, but the target population were only AFL patients. The study results 
showed  that  vernakalant  was  not  effective  in  the  rapid  conversion  of  AFL  to  sinus  rhythm. 
Subsequently, further development of vernakalant focused on AF.  
AVRO (VERI-305-AMIO) 
The  AVRO  study  design  was  submitted  with  the  day  120  responses  in  answer  to  major  objection 
requesting an actively-controlled study. 
Methods 
This  was  a  phase  3,  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  active-controlled,  double-dummy  study. 
Subjects were randomized to receive either vernakalant injection or amiodarone injection in a 1:1 ratio. 
The  design  of  AVRO        is  considered  appropriate  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  vernakalant  in  the  rapid 
conversion  of  AF  to  SR.  The  duration  of  AF  (3-  48  hours)  is  shorter  than  that  examined  in  the  other 
ACT  pivotal  studies,  but  is  also  considered  clinically  relevant,  as  in  these  patients  anti-coagulation  is 
not  required.  The  applicant  justified  the  choice  of  amiodarone  as  the  active  comparator  as  it  can  be 
used  in  the  broad  AF  population.  By  hindsight,  this  choice  was  not  optimal  considering  that  patients 
with CHF were not included in this study as well.  Considering the rapid onset of action of vernakalant, 
it would have been more appropriate to choose flecainide, rather than amiodarone, with its known slow 
onset of action and low initial conversion rates. The recruited patients are generally in line with those 
recruited in ACT I/III. Importantly, patients with SBP <100 mm Hg were excluded, whereas this limit 
was  set  to  90  mm  Hg  in  the  previous  studies.  This  probably  ensured  the  recruitment  of  more  stable 
patients. Vernakalant administration followed the same scheme as that employed in the previous ACT 
studies.  The  administered  dose  of  amiodarone  was  in  accordance  with  the  UK  SPC  as  per  the  first  2 
hours  of  administration,  but  not  the  24  hours  regimen.  This  was  chosen  in  line  with  the  aim  of  the 
study,  which  was  mainly  to  show  the  rapidity  of  effect  of  vernakalant  compared  to  amiodarone. 
According to the applicant the extra attention to the hydration status of the patients contributed to the 
lower  number  of  hypotension  events  observed  in  AVRO  compared  to  earlier  ACT  studies.  Such 
recommendations  are  currently  included  in  the  adapted  SPC.  Choosing  a  time  window  till  90  minutes 
for the primary endpoint to detect conversion to SR could bias the results to vernakalant, considering 
that amiodarone is known for its delayed onset of action even following IV administration. Otherwise, 
the chosen endpoints are acceptable. Of note, no patients with NYHA III were recruited.  
Results 
Treatment  with  vernakalant  resulted  in  a  significantly  greater  proportion  of  subjects  converting  from 
AF  to  SR  within  the  first  90  minutes  compared  to  amiodarone.  A  total  of  60  of  116  (51.7%) 
vernakalant subjects met the primary endpoint, compared to 6 of 116 (5.2%) amiodarone subjects (% 
difference:  46.6  %  CI  95%:  36.6-56.5;  p  <0.0001).  In  the  group  of  60  subjects  who  responded  to 
vernakalant,  the  median  time  to  conversion  was  11.0  minutes  compared  to  25.5  minutes  in  the  6 
subjects  who  responded  to  amiodarone.  This  was  also  accompanied  by  significantly  lesser  AF-related 
symptoms  by  90  minutes  in  the  vernakalant  group.  By  4  hours  post-dose,  54.4%  of  vernakalant 
subjects  and  22.6%  of  amiodarone  subjects  had  converted  to  SR.  The  results  show  that  vernakalant 
was faster than amiodarone in conversion of recent onset AF to SR, with the caveats made above.  
2.4.6.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
In  summary,  vernakalant  administration  resulted  in  significantly  more  conversions  of  AF  to  SR.  The 
results are of clinical relevance and SR was in most cases maintained till 24 hours. The results are at 
least  comparable  to  those  reported  with  other  AADs  in  particular  flecainide,  amiodarone  or  ibutilide. 
The main advantage of vernakalant in terms of efficacy appears to be the rapid time to conversion. The 
results of AF in post cardiac surgery patients are significant but less than those reported in the general 
AF population. Efficacy in some patient populations is not clear, in particular patients with CHF (I/II). 
28of 57 
 
 
 
 
  
 
2.4.7.  Clinical safety 
2.4.7.1.  Patient exposure 
Safety data of vernakalant injection is mainly based on six phase II and III efficacy and safety studies 
in which 773 patients received vernakalant injection and 335 patients received placebo (refer to table 
E1). Safety analysis of the AVRO study is discussed separately. Safety data from the oral vernakalant 
program  is  also  considered.  The  safety  database  of  vernakalant  appears  adequate  with  507  patients 
administered the full dose and 241 patients administered the first dose (3 mg/kg) (Table S1). However, 
the actual representation of different subgroups of patients may not be sufficient, specially considering 
that vernakalant is a new chemical entity.  
Table S1:  Vernakalant Injection Exposure in Patient Populations With AF or AFL 
a [CRAFT, Scene 2, ACT I, ACT III, ACT IV, and ACT II]. 
There is no experience with repeat dosing and a warning with that effect is currently implemented in 
the SPC. 
2.4.7.2.  Adverse events  
Due to the short half-life of vernakalant (about 3 hours in extensive metabolisers and 5.5 hours in poor 
metabolisers) focusing on the adverse events within the first 24 hours could be accepted as this is the 
most  relevant  period.  The  incidences  of  any  treatment  related  treatment  emergent  adverse  events 
(TRAE),  serious  related  AE,  withdrawals,  drug  discontinuation  due  to  AE  and  related  deaths  were 
higher in the vernakalant compared to the placebo group respectively (table S2).  
Table S2: Overview of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events in the phase 2-3 studies. 
a Includes [ACT I, II, III, IV; CRAFT, and Scene 2]. 
b Includes temporary discontinuations. 
The  most  common  TRAEs  in  the  vernakalant  group  in  the  first  2  hours  were  dysgeusia,  sneezing, 
paraesthesia, nausea and hypotension (table S3). 
29of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  S3:  Most  frequently  reported  treatment  emergent  related  adverse  events  in  the 
Vernakalant  group  in  the  first  24  Hours  Post-dose-  All  Patients  in  Phase  2  and  Phase  3 
Studies 
The AEs were generally described as mild or moderate and were not treatment-limiting. From 2 to 24 
hours  after  initiation  of  infusion,  the  incidence  of  these  adverse  events  in  the  vernakalant  group 
decreased to a level comparable to that reported in the placebo group. The current data show that the 
main safety issues occur within 2 hours vernakalant injection.  
2.4.7.3.  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The  incidence  of  related  SAEs  during  the  24  hours  post-dose  was  slightly  higher  in  the  vernakalant 
group (2.1%) than in the placebo group (0.3%).  Hypotension was the most frequently related SAE (8 
vernakalant, 1.0%; 1 placebo, 0.3%). Other related SAEs included bradycardia (3 patients, 0.4%) and 
complete  AV  block  (2  patients,  0.3%).  No  new  SAE's  were  identified  in  ACT  II  which  is  reassuring 
considering the more vulnerable patient population recruited in this study.  
Deaths. Five cases of deaths were reported of which only one was considered related to vernakalant. 
This concerns a 64-year  old white male with a history of aortic stenosis. At the time of admission he 
was also suffering from ACS with ST elevation. The recruitment of such a patient and his management 
further  represent  protocol  violations.    The  patient  was  first  administered  IV  and  oral  metoprolol  and 
later  2  infusions  of  vernakalant  despite  his  hypotension.  Consequently,  the  patient  suffered  from 
ventricular  fibrillation  and  resuscitation  was  unsuccessful.  This  death  strongly  indicates  a  deleterious 
effect  of  vernakalant  in  haemodynamically  unstable  patients  (including  patients  with  severe  aortic 
stenosis),  justifying  their  inclusion  as  contraindications.  Also,  a  possible  deleterious  effect  of 
vernakalant  on  severely  hypotensive  patients  per  se  can  not  be  excluded,  which  are  currently 
contraindicated (< 100 mm Hg).  
Adverse Events of Special Significance: Based on the safety profile of other AAD and following review 
of  the  safety  data  for  vernakalant,  certain  adverse  events  of  interest  were  identified  (ventricular 
arrhythmia, hypotension, bradycardia and AFL). 
Ventricular arrhythmia. Clinically meaningful ventricular arrhythmias had a slightly higher frequency 
in the vernakalant group (0.6%) compared to placebo (0). The five reported cases occurred in the first 
2  hours  post-dose,  three  of  whom  had  a  history  of  CHF.    Generally,  ventricular  arrhythmia  events 
occurred more frequently in patients with a history of CHF who were treated with vernakalant.   
30of 57 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Two  cases  of  VF  are  reported.  One  case  is  discussed  under  Deaths.  The  other  is  a  case  of  VF  that  is 
considered  un-related  to  vernakalant  but  due  to  non-synchronised  cardioversion  due  technical 
malfunction. 
Torsade  de  pointes  (TdP).  Four events of TdP occurred (3 in the vernakalant and 1 in placebo) of 
which  one  might  have  a  temporal  relation  to  vernakalant.  The  case  was  asymptomatic  and  was 
captured  on  the  Holter  as  a  nine  beat  run  of  a  ventricular  arrhythmia  monitored  2  hours  and  20 
minutes  after  initiation  of  the  infusion  of  vernakalant  injection  and  immediately  after  an  infusion  of 
ibutilide.  According  to  the  applicant,  the  ibutilide  injection  confounds  the  causal  relation  between 
vernakalant  and  TdP.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  ventricular  arrhythmias  associated  with  ibutilide 
usually occur within the first 40 minutes of injection. A contraindication is currently implemented in the 
SPC  regarding  the  administration  of  vernakalant  till  4  hours,  following  intravenous  Class  I  and  III 
antiarrhythmics.  The  most  valid  candidates  that  could  be  administered  before  vernakalant,  are 
probably  flecainide  or  ibutilide,  both  rapidly  distributed  following  iv  administration.  For  both  agents, 
there is no contraindication for prior use of iv AADs.  Importantly, there is already a contraindication to 
the administration of vernakalant in case of prolonged QT (uncorrected > 440 msec; also implemented 
in  the  ibutilide  SPC).  This  contraindication  is  considered  sufficient  to  guard  against  excessive 
prolongation of QT interval which is the main risk when AADs are co-administered. There is also limited 
experience with administration of AAD (class I/III) 4-24 hours prior to vernakalant, and a warning with 
that message is currently implemented in the SPC (section 4.4). 
Thorough  analysis  of  the  QT  data.  Prolongation  of  QTcF  was  observed  with  placebo-subtracted 
peaks of +22.1 msec (95% CI: 18.9-25.3) at minute 10 and +18.8 msec (95% CI: 15.6-22) at minute 
35,  returning  to  baseline  by  50  minutes.  Substantially  more  patients  in  the  vernakalant  group  were 
observed with QTcF prolongations of ≥30 msec and ≥60 msec compared to the placebo group till the 
second hour, although the absolute number of patients with a QTcF prolongation of ≥60 msec was low. 
Afterwards, as plasma levels of vernakalant were low and other medications were allowed as well, such 
differences  were  not  noticed.  Likewise,  increases  in  mean  QTcF  of  >480  msec  and  >500  msec  were 
more frequently recorded in the vernakalant group than the placebo group but the incidence was low 
and  lasted  only  till  minute  50,  after  which  the  frequencies  appear  comparable.  The  PK-PD  modeling 
predicts an increase of around 20 msec in QTcF at the expected Cmax of 4100 ng/ml. This data shows 
that vernakalant is associated with a higher risk of prolonging QTcF which is probably associated with 
its  pharmacological  action.  It  suggests  an  effect  on  the  action  potential  on  a  ventricular  level, 
precluding absolute atrial selectivity. This partial atrial selectivity and the effect on QT are adequately 
depicted in section 5.1. This is also described for other AADs as well e.g ibutilide. The current clinical 
program  is  too  limited  precluding  any  realistic  estimation  of  the  risk  of  TdP.  No  correlation  between 
prolonged QTcF at baseline and further QTcF prolongation was observed. However, a contraindication 
for  patients  with  prolonged  QT  at  baseline  is  implemented  as  these  patients  were  excluded  from  the 
clinical  studies.  This  is  in  line  with  the  labeling  of  other  AAD.  There  was  no  foreseen  need  for  a 
thorough QT study during the iv program but before the submission of the oral formulation, such study 
will  be  conducted  according  to  the  applicant.  A  better  evaluation  of  the  pro-arrhythmic  potential  of 
vernakalant  and  other  important  AE  (e.g  hypotension)  are  expected  from  the  data  of  the  post- 
approval PASS registry study, which is an integral part of the RMP. 
Hypotension.  The  overall  incidence  of  hypotension  in  the  first  two  hours  following  infusion  was 
comparable between the vernakalant (7.6%) and the placebo groups (5.1%), however the incidence of 
associated  AEs  was  higher  (5.4%  versus  1%  respectively).  Outliers  with  a  greater  degree  of 
hypotension  post-dose  (<  80  mmHg)  were  numerically  more  frequent  among  vernakalant-treated 
patients  (n=22  of  771,  2.9%)  than  placebo-treated  (n=5  of  332,  1.5%).  SAEs  of  hypotension  were 
also  more  frequently  reported  among  vernakalant-treated  patients  than  with  placebo  (9  vernakalant, 
1.2%;  1  placebo,  0.3%).  Meantime,  mean  SBP  population-response  among  vernakalant-treated 
patients  actually  showed  a  slight  but  significant  increase  in  comparison  to  placebo.  The  PK-PD 
modeling  predicts  a  maximum  of  3.05  mmHg increase  in  SBP with EC50  of 1141  ng/ml  (much  below 
the  expected  Cmax).  However  no  AEs  related  to  hypertension  were  reported.  A  logistic  regression 
analysis showed that a low baseline SBP (<105 mmHg) and a history of CHF were the most important 
factors  that  correlated  to  approximately  a  3-fold  and  1.8-fold  increased  risk  of  hypotension, 
respectively. The SPC contraindicates the use of vernakalant in patients with SBP <100  mm Hg. This 
also reflects the experience in the AVRO study, where patients with SBP <100 mm Hg were excluded. 
The  hypotension  could  be  attributed  to  the  observed  negative  inotropic  effect  shown  in  experimental 
studies,  however  the  mechanism  of  the  recorded  hypertension  is  not  fully  explained,  but  can  be 
attributed  to  the  normalization  of  the  rhythm,  as  a  comparable  increase  in  BP  was  also  recorded  in 
placebo patients following conversion to SR by other methods. 
31of 57 
 
 
 
Bradycardia The incidence of bradycardia in the 0-2 hour period was slightly higher in the vernakalant 
group  (5.4%)  compared  to  placebo  (3.8%)    [percent  risk  difference  1.6  (95%  CI:-1.1,  4.3)].  This 
could  have  been  mainly  driven  by  patients  who  converted  to  sinus  rhythm  in  the  vernakalant  group 
within the first 90 minutes: where bradycardia was reported in 8.2% of the patients in the vernakalant 
group compared to 0 in placebo. For patients who did not convert to sinus rhythm within the first 90 
minutes,  the  incidence  of  bradycardia  events  was  comparable  in  both  groups  (3.8%  and  4% 
respectively).  Also  in  patients  who  did  not  convert  within  the  first  90  minutes,  but  who  subsequently 
underwent electrical cardioversion or other therapy 2 hours post-dose, the rate of bradycardia events 
from  2-24  hours  post-dose  was  14.4%  in  the  placebo  group  and  7.7%  in  the  vernakalant  group 
supporting the claim that these bradycardia events are probably primarily associated with termination 
of AF rather than drug treatment. Clinically significant bradycardia was reported more frequently in the 
vernakalant  group  (1.3%)  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (0)  in  the  first  2  hours.  Thereafter  the 
incidence was comparable (0.4% and 0.6% respectively). Patients with a known history of sinus node 
dysfunction or severe bradycardia (not corrected by a pacemaker) were excluded from the vernakalant 
clinical trials, as conversion from AF by pharmacological or electrical means has an associated risk for 
sinus  pause  in  these  patients.  These  patients  are  contraindicated  in  the  SPC.  There  is  little  data 
regarding  the  effect  of  vernakalant  on  PR  interval.  Available  data  suggest  that  vernakalant  has  mild 
effects  on  the  PR  interval  in  subjects  with  normal  nodal  conduction,  with  a  possible  dose  dependent 
effect.   
AFL.  The  risk  of  developing  AFL  was  significantly  higher  following  vernakalant  (6.1%)  than  placebo 
(1.6%)(percent  risk  difference  4.5:  95%  CI  2.3  to  6.7),  but  only  one  serious  adverse  event  of  AFL 
within  the  first  24  hour  post-dose  was  reported.  No  patient  with  AFL  following  treatment  with 
vernakalant  injection  developed  1:1  atrioventricular  conduction  to  date  in  the  clinical  trials.  Further 
analysis of data showed that in some cases, this secondary developing AFL may be a transitional phase 
and some patients may revert to SR without further intervention.  
2.4.7.4. 
 Laboratory findings 
No  clinically  meaningful  changes  from  baseline  were  noted  for  haematology  or  clinical  chemistry 
parameters for vernakalant or placebo treatment. Shifts to potentially clinically meaningful high or low 
baseline  chemistry  and  other  laboratory  values,  where  they  occurred  were  small  and  similar  for 
vernakalant and placebo at hour 24 and follow-up. No association between laboratory value shifts and 
vernakalant treatment has been identified. 
2.4.7.5. 
 Safety in special populations 
Risk  for  the  AEs  of  interest  with  vernakalant  was  not  affected  by  age  category  (age<65  n=  528; 
age≥65  n=  524)  (age<75  n=  836;  age≥75  n=  216)  or  sex  (males  n=720  and  females=  332).  The 
recruited  numbers  of  patients  “non-white”  (30/773,  3.9%)  or  poor  metabolisers  (2.2%,  17/773)  are 
too few precluding any conclusion about the risk of AEs in these groups.  
The medical history of patients had an effect on their risk of AEs.   
Congestive  heart  failure  (CHF).  In  patients  with  CHF,  an  increased  risk  of  hypotension  and 
ventricular  arrhythmia  was  observed  compared  to  patients  with  no  CHF.  These  results  pertain 
specifically  to  NYHA  I/II  with  minimal  representation  of  NYHA  III,  whereas  NYHA  IV  were  excluded 
from  the  clinical  studies  [Of  the  68  patients  for  whom  NYHA  classification  is  known,  there  were  7 
patients  (3  placebo,  4  vernakalant)  who  had  class  III  heart  failure,  36  patients  (12  placebo,  24 
vernakalant) with class II heart failure, and 25 patients (6 placebo, 19 vernakalant) with class I heart 
failure].  This  highlights  the  deficiency  of  the  PD  studies,  which  did  not  further  explore  these 
mechanisms    in  humans.  The  current  SPC  warnings  are  considered  adequate  to  reflect  these  results 
regarding  NYHA  I/II.  The  requested  post-registry  safety  study  should  be  able  to  better  identify  the 
risks  in  these  patients.  In  light  of  the  results  in  patients  with  NYHA  I/II,  and  the  very  limited 
experience  in  NYHA  III/IV,  (even  in  the  AVRO  study)  the  benefit/risk  of  vernakalant  in  these  latter 
groups is not adequately defined and these patients are accordingly contraindicated.  
Hypertension  (HTN)  and  ischaemic  heart  disease  (IHD).  Risk  for  the  AEs  was  not  changed  in 
patients with HTN or IHD.  
Valvular  heart  disease.  In  patients  with  valvular  heart  disease,  an  increased  risk  of  ventricular 
arrhythmia  was  observed  in  the  first  2  hours  post-dose  in  patients  who  received  vernakalant.  The 
exact mechanism is not identified, though it is acknowledged that in the two cases of serious VA, there 
were multiple co-morbidities complicating the causation. A warning in the SPC is implemented. 
32of 57 
 
 
 
Myocardial  infarction  (MI).  There  was  a  trend  towards  an  increased  risk  of  ventricular  arrhythmia 
and AFL in patients with a history of myocardial infarction (n=117). Patients with a history myocardial 
infarction within the last 30 days were excluded from the main studies. This is reflected in section 4.3 
in the SPC.  
Cardiac surgery. Patients with recent cardiac surgery (ACT II; n=161) had a higher risk of ventricular 
arrhythmia and a trend towards increased risk of hypotension compared to other patients (Pooled ACT 
I/III  n=  575).  The  applicant  explained  that  this  trend  can  be  due  to  characteristics  inherent  to  the 
different studies. Also this trend was mainly seen in post cardiac surgery patients with CHF, where CHF 
is  already  identified  as  a  risk  group  for  hypotension.  In  addition,  events  recorded  as  clinically 
significant were actually comparable between the groups. These arguments refute the need for further 
warnings in this special cohort.  
Impaired renal function. The risk of AEs appeared comparable in patients with normal renal function 
compared  to  those  with  moderate  to  severe  renal  impairment.  This  is  further  confirmed  by  PK  study 
performed with vernakalant infusion (VERO-106-REN) that showed that vernakalant injection was safe 
and  well  tolerated  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  volunteers  with  mild,  moderate  and  severe  renal 
impairment.  There  does  not  appear  to  be  a  higher  risk  of  ventricular  arrhythmia,  hypotension, 
bradycardia or AFL in patients with different degrees of renal impairment.  
Hepatic  impairment.  Degrees  of  hepatic  impairment  were  not  adequately  defined  in  the  submitted 
clinical  studies.  The  applicant  used  one  method  (APRI  score)  of  classifying  these  patients.  The 
applicability of this method to the current population was questioned, as APRI score is used to detect 
hepatic  fibrosis  following  hepatitis  C.  Using  this  method  showed  that  there  is  an  adequate 
representation  of  patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment  (n=104).  In  these  patients,  the  risk  of  VA 
appears comparable to the general population. In patients with advanced hepatic impairment (n=18), 
a risk of higher incidence of VA is noticed. However, confounding factors like: low number of placebo 
patients,  and  patients  with  multiple  co-morbidities,  preclude  robust  conclusions.  PK  data  in  all 
hepatically impaired patients show an increase of Cmax and AUC that reaches 20-25% respectively by 
the  second  dose  compared  to  exposure  in  normal  patients,  which  is  within  the  expected  limits 
(reflected  in  section  5.2).  No  dose  reductions  are  accordingly  recommended.  A  trend  for  higher 
incidence of VA with the highest exposure can not be excluded. A warning regarding the limited data 
and against the use in such patients is implemented.  
Electrical  cardioversion  (ECV).  The  data  show  that  in  patients  subsequently  undergoing  ECV, 
vernakalant did not increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmia (1.8% vs 2.8 for placebo), bradycardia 
(5.5% vs 11.6% for placebo) or hypotension (3.1% vs 6.1 in placebo). 
There was also an unexplained increased risk of AFL in patients from Europe. There was no difference 
of  background  use  of  Class  I/III  AADs  to  explain  the  difference  in  the  risk  of  AFL  in  EU  vs  non-EU 
population. The risk may have been amplified by a difference in the placebo reported rate of AFL.  
Safety  in  AVRO  study. The reported TEAE with vernakalant in particular dysgeusia, sneezing, cough 
and  nausea  are  in  line  with  those  previously  reported  in  the  ACT  studies.  One  case  of  death  was 
reported  in  the  study,  in  the  vernakalant  group,  in  which  causality  was  assessed  as  not  related.  This 
decision is endorsed. The incidence of related SAEs during the 24 hours post-dose was slightly higher 
in the vernakalant group (2.6%) than the amiodarone group (0.9%).  Cardiac disorders were the most 
frequently  reported  SAE.  Events  of  hypotension  were  comparable  in  the  vernakalant  and  the 
amiodarone  groups.  The  incidence  of  hypotension  in  AVRO  is  much  lower  than  that  reported  in  the 
previous  studies  (overall  incidence  of  7.6%  and  5.1%  in  the  vernakalant  and  placebo  groups 
respectively). Measures taken in AVRO, in particular excluding patients with BP lower than 100 mm Hg 
(unlike  the  ACT  studies,  which  used  a  lower  limit  of  90  mm  Hg)  and  ensuring  proper  patient’s 
hydration  have  probably  minimized  the  risk  of  hypotension.  The  incidence  of  ventricular  arrhythmias 
was generally low in both groups. There was one case of ventricular arrhythmia (VA) reported as a SAE 
in  the  vernakalant  group.  The  Ventricular  Events  Committee  considered  the  arrhythmia  as 
supraventricular  tachycardia  with  aberrant  conduction,  but  they  did  identify  two  brief  episodes  of 
monomorphic  ventricular  tachycardia  approximately  one  hour  later.  This  is  different  to  the  initial 
diagnosis  of VA made  by the  investigator.  This  event  was  associated  with  a prolongation of  QTc.  The 
event was recorded in one patient with NYHA II (1/11) patients. The predisposition of the heart failure 
to the incidence of arrhythmia can not be excluded. A warning is already implemented in the SPC. No 
events of TdP or ventricular fibrillation  were recorded.  In the vernakalant group, QTcF was elevated 
maximally  at  10  minutes  post-dose  (23.7  msec),  comparable  with  amiodarone  after  4  hours  (21.7 
msec),  and  then  decreased  over  time.  This  was  in  line  with  the  previous  data  from  the  ACT  studies. 
This  resulted  in  a  slightly  higher  frequency  of  reported  QTcF  prolongations  >450  msec  in  the 
vernakalant  group  compared  to  amiodarone  during  the  first  hour.  Also  a  higher  incidence  of 
prolongations  of  QTcF  >30  msec  are  reported  in  the  same  time.  This  negates  the  claim  that 
vernakalant acts exclusively on the atria, although it has to be acknowledged that this prolongation of 
QTcF  did  not  translate  into  serious  ventricular  arrhythmias.  The  incidence  of  AFL  is  higher  in  the 
vernakalant  group  (8.6%)  compared  to  the  amiodarone  group  (0.9%).  No  patient  with  AFL  following 
33of 57 
 
treatment with vernakalant injection developed 1:1 atrioventricular conduction. No events of AFL were 
reported as an SAE within 24 hours postdose or led to discontinuation of study drug. 
2.4.7.6. 
 Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with intravenous vernakalant, which could be 
acceptable  considering  the  route  of  administration  and  the  short  half-life.  However  some  interaction 
studies have been performed to fulfill these requirements for the submission of the oral formulation. Of 
the rate control drugs, only in patients co-administered vernakalant with beta-blockers a higher risk of 
hypotension  was  observed.  This  was  explained  by  the  higher  incidence  of  CHF  in  these  patients. 
Background use of rhythm control agents was associated with a higher risk of developing AFL (percent 
risk difference of 6.8, 95% CI 4.0 to 9.7). This higher risk is stated in the SPC. The other AEs were not 
significantly  affected.  This  is  reflected  as  a  warning  regarding  the  lack  of  data  regarding  concomitant 
administration, till 4 hours after administration of vernakalant, while oral agents can be resumed after 
2 hours. Use of iv class I and III AADs 4 hours prior to vernakalant administration is currently included 
as a contraindication, and warning for the use of these agents 4-24 hours prior to vernakalant, due to 
the  lack  of  data.  Vernakalant  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  on  oral  AADs  (class  I  and  III), 
due to limited experience. Risk of atrial flutter may be increased in patients receiving class I AADs. No 
increased  risk  of  AEs  was  reported  in  the  users  of  CYP2D6  inhibitors  or  CYP2D6  substrates,  which  is 
further  confirmed  by  a  PK  study  performed  with  the  oral  preparation.  No  increased  risk  of  AEs  of 
interest  was  observed  when  vernakalant  was  administered  concomitantly  with  QT  prolonging  agents. 
No significant differences were noticed in the risk of haemorrhagic or thromboembolic events between 
the  vernakalant  and  placebo  groups  administered  vitamin  K  antagonists  (VKA).  The  presented  data 
from  the  available  iv,  the  oral  and  preclinical  studies  suggest  that  vernakalant  does  not  increase  the 
risk of haemorrhagic events or changes in INR.  
2.4.7.7. 
 Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  rate  of  withdrawal  from  the  clinical  studies  was  low  and  slightly  higher  in  the  vernakalant  group 
1.3% (n=10) compared to the placebo group 0.9% (n=3). Five withdrawals due to AEs were recorded, 
all  in  the  vernakalant  group.  Vernakalant  was  permanently  or  temporarily  discontinued  due  to  an 
adverse  event  for  28  vernakalant  patients  (3.6%)  and  1  placebo  patient  (0.3%).  The  main  reasons 
were hypotension (n=7) and bradycardia (n=2).  
2.4.8 Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In summary, the main safety issues associated with vernakalant infusion occur within the first 2 hours 
of  administration.  The  most  frequently  reported AEs:  dysgeusia,  sneezing,  paraesthesia  and  nausea 
are  not  considered  serious.  The  AEs  associated  with  the  cardiovascular  system  are  more  worrisome 
and  include  hypotension,  bradycardia  and  potential  proarrhythmic  effects.  The  risk  of  hypotension  is 
higher  in  patients  with  initial  hypotension  or  with  a  history  of  CHF.  In  the  former  group,  this  can  be 
minimized by proper  precautions as implemented  in the AVRO study. Cases of ventricular arrhythmia 
were  infrequently  reported,  but  that  may  also  reflect  the  limited  database.  The  risk  profile  in  certain 
patients  groups  is  not  well  defined  in  particular  patients  with  NYHA  III/IV  as  they  were  not  properly 
represented  in  the  clinical  studies.  Several  SPC  adaptations  were  implemented  to  improve  the  safety 
profile of vernakalant infusion, in particular contraindication of vernakalant within 4 hours following use 
of  class  I/  III  AADs,  patients  with  severe  hypotension,  patients  with  NYHA  III/IV,  bradycardia  and 
prolonged QT at baseline.  
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
34of 57 
 
 
2.5.1.  Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
2.5.2.  Risk management plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
SUMMARY OF THE EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important 
identified risk 
Hypotension 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
significant 
hypotension 
evaluated as a 
medically 
important 
adverse 
reaction of 
special interest 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of hypotension and appropriate advice to 
prescribers for patient selection and 
minimization of this risk are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.3 
(Contraindications), 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use), and 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
Patients with severe aortic stenosis, 
patients with systolic blood pressure < 
100 mm Hg). [Additional text 
providing further specifics about 
patients with NYHA class III or IV 
heart failure will be included when the 
final, approved Brinavess SmPC is 
available.] 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Patients should be observed with assessment of 
vital signs and continuous cardiac rhythm 
monitoring during and after administration of 
Brinavess, until clinical and ECG parameters 
have stabilized. 
Prior to attempting pharmacological 
cardioversion, ensure that patients are 
adequately hydrated and haemodynamically 
optimized. 
During infusion of Brinavess, if patients develop 
clinically meaningful bradycardia and/or 
hypotension or develop ECG changes (such as a 
35of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
clinically meaningful sinus pause, complete 
heart block, new bundle branch block, 
significant prolongation of the QRS or QT 
interval, changes consistent with ischaemia or 
infarction and ventricular arrhythmia), the 
administration of Brinavess should be 
discontinued and these patients should receive 
appropriate medical management. If these 
events occur during the first infusion of 
Brinavess, patients should not receive the 
second dose of Brinavess. 
Hypotension 
Hypotension can occur in a small number of 
patients (vernakalant 7.6%, placebo 5.1%). 
Hypotension typically occurs early, either during 
the infusion or early after the end of the 
infusion, and can usually be corrected by 
standard supportive measures. Patients with 
congestive heart failure (CHF) have been 
identified as a population at higher risk for 
hypotension.   (See section 4.8). 
Congestive Heart Failure  
Patients with CHF showed a higher overall 
incidence of hypotensive events, during the first 
2 hours after dose in patients treated with 
vernakalant compared to patients receiving 
placebo (16.1% vs. 4.7%, respectively). In 
patients without CHF, the incidence of 
hypotension was not significantly different 
during the first 2 hours after dose in patients 
treated with vernakalant compared to patients 
receiving placebo (5.7% vs. 5.2%, 
respectively).  Hypotension reported as a 
serious adverse experience or leading to 
medicine discontinuation occurred in CHF 
patients following exposure to Brinavess in 
2.9% of these patients compared to 0% in 
placebo. 
Due to the higher incidence of the adverse 
events of hypotension and ventricular 
arrhythmia in patients with CHF, vernakalant 
should be used cautiously in haemodynamically 
stable patients with CHF functional classes 
NYHA I to II.   There is limited experience with 
the use of vernakalant in patients with 
previously documented LVEF ≤ 35%, its use in 
these patients is not recommended.  The use in 
CHF patients corresponding to NYHA III or 
36of 57 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important 
identified risk 
Bradycardia 
NYHA IV is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects): 
Vascular disorders  Common: Hypotension 
Description of selected adverse reactions:  
Clinically significant adverse reactions observed 
in clinical trials included hypotension and 
ventricular arrhythmia. (See section 4.4 
Hypotension, Congestive Heart Failure). 
2. Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will identify the risk of hypotension 
with vernakalant use, and provide appropriate 
advice to minimise this risk.  Risk of 
hypotension in patients with congestive heart 
failure will be identified, and guidance for 
appropriate patient selection will be provided. 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
significant 
bradycardia 
evaluated as a 
medically 
important 
adverse 
reaction of 
special interest 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of bradycardia and appropriate advice to 
prescribers for patient selection and 
minimization of this risk are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.3 
(Contraindications), 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use), and 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
Patients with prolonged QT at baseline 
(uncorrected >440 msec), or severe 
bradycardia, sinus node dysfunction in the 
absence of a pacemaker.   [Additional text 
providing further specifics about patients with 
heart block will be included when the final, 
approved Brinavess SmPC is available.] 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Patients should be observed with assessment of 
vital signs and continuous cardiac rhythm 
monitoring during and after administration of 
Brinavess, until clinical and ECG parameters 
have stabilized. 
During infusion of Brinavess, if patients develop 
37of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
clinically meaningful bradycardia and/or 
hypotension or develop ECG changes (such as a 
clinically meaningful sinus pause, complete 
heart block, new bundle branch block, 
significant prolongation of the QRS or QT 
interval, changes consistent with ischaemia or 
infarction and ventricular arrhythmia), the 
administration of Brinavess should be 
discontinued and these patients should receive 
appropriate medical management. If these 
events occur during the first infusion of 
Brinavess, patients should not receive the 
second dose of Brinavess. 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects): 
Cardiac disorders    Common: Bradycardia 
Uncommon:  Sinus arrest, 
complete AV block, first 
degree AV block, sinus 
bradycardia 
Description of selected adverse reactions:  
Bradycardia was observed predominantly at the 
time of conversion to sinus rhythm. With a 
significantly higher conversion rate in patients 
treated with Brinavess, the incidence of 
bradycardia events was higher within the first 2 
hours in vernakalant treated patients than in 
placebo-treated patients (5.4% vs. 3.8%, 
respectively). Of the patients who did not 
convert to sinus rhythm, the incidence of 
bradycardia events in the first 2 hours postdose 
was similar in placebo and vernakalant treated 
groups (4.0% and 3.8%, respectively). In 
general, bradycardia responded well to 
discontinuation of Brinavess and/or 
administration of atropine. 
2.  Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will identify the risk of bradycardia 
with vernakalant use, and provide appropriate 
advice to minimise this risk. 
Important 
identified risk 
Ventricular 
arrhythmia in 
patients with 
1. 
Routine 
pharmacovigilanc
e 
2. 
Post-
authorisation 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of ventricular arrhythmia in patients with 
heart failure, and appropriate advice to 
38of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
history / evidence 
of CHF 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
registry study:  
ventricular 
arrhythmia 
evaluated as a 
medically 
important 
adverse reaction 
of special 
interest; medical 
history of heart 
failure and NYHA 
class collected at 
baseline 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
prescribers for patient selection and 
minimization of this risk are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.3 
(Contraindications), 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use), and 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
[Specific text describing contraindication of use 
in patients with NYHA class III and IV heart 
failure will be included when the final, approved 
Brinavess SmPC is available.] 
Patients with prolonged QT at baseline 
(uncorrected > 440 msec) 
Use of IV rhythm control anti-arrhythmics (class 
I and class III) within 4 hours prior to Brinavess 
administration. 
Acute coronary syndrome (including myocardial 
infarction) within the last 30 days. 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Patients should be observed with assessment of 
vital signs and continuous cardiac rhythm 
monitoring during and after administration of 
Brinavess, until clinical and ECG parameters 
have stabilized. 
In patients with uncorrected hypokalaemia 
(serum potassium of less than 3.5 mmol/l), 
potassium levels should be corrected prior to 
use of Brinavess. 
During infusion of Brinavess, if patients develop 
clinically meaningful bradycardia and/or 
hypotension or develop ECG changes (such as a 
clinically meaningful sinus pause, complete 
heart block, new bundle branch block, 
significant prolongation of the QRS or QT 
interval, changes consistent with ischaemia or 
infarction and ventricular arrhythmia), the 
administration of Brinavess should be 
discontinued and these patients should receive 
appropriate medical management. If these 
events occur during the first infusion of 
Brinavess, patients should not receive the 
second dose of Brinavess. 
39of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Congestive Heart Failure  
Patients with a history of CHF showed a higher 
incidence of ventricular arrhythmia in the first 
two hours post dose (7.3% for Brinavess 
compared to 1.6% in placebo). These 
arrhythmias typically presented as 
asymptomatic, monomorphic, non-sustained 
(average 3-4 beats) ventricular tachycardias. 
By contrast, ventricular arrhythmias were 
reported with similar frequencies in patients 
without a history of CHF who were treated with 
either Brinavess or placebo (3.2% for Brinavess 
vs. 3.6% for placebo). 
Due to the higher incidence of the adverse 
events of hypotension and ventricular 
arrhythmia in patients with CHF, vernakalant 
should be used cautiously in haemodynamically 
stable patients with CHF functional classes 
NYHA I to II.  There is limited experience with 
the use of vernakalant in patients with 
previously documented LVEF ≤ 35%, its use in 
these patients is not recommended.  The use in 
CHF patients corresponding to NYHA III or 
NYHA IV is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Use of AADs (anti-arrhythmic drugs) prior to or 
after BRINAVESS 
BRINAVESS can not be recommended in 
patients previously administered intravenous 
AADs (class I and III) 4-24 hours prior to 
vernakalant, due to lack of data. BRINAVESS 
should not be administered in patients who 
received intravenous AADs (class I and III) 
within 4 hours prior to vernakalant (see section 
4.3). 
BRINAVESS should be used with caution in 
patients on oral AADs (class I and III), due to 
limited experience. Risk of atrial flutter may be 
increased in patients receiving class I AADs (see 
above). 
There is limited experience with the use of 
intravenous rhythm control anti-arrhythmics 
(class I and class III) in the first 4 hours after 
BRINAVESS administration, therefore these 
agents should be used cautiously within this 
period. Resumption or initiation of oral 
maintenance antiarrhythmic therapy can be 
considered starting 2 hours after vernakalant 
40of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
administration. 
Valvular Heart Disease 
In patients with valvular heart disease, there 
was a higher incidence of ventricular arrhythmia 
events in vernakalant patients. These patients 
should be monitored closely. 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects): 
Cardiac disorders    Uncommon: ventricular 
extrasystoles, ventricular tachycardia 
Description of selected adverse reactions:  
Clinically significant adverse reactions observed 
in clinical trials included hypotension and 
ventricular arrhythmia. (See section 4.4 
Hypotension, Congestive Heart Failure). 
2. Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will identify the risk of ventricular 
arrhythmia with vernakalant use in patients 
with heart failure, and provide appropriate 
advice to minimise this risk. 
Important 
potential risk 
Ventricular 
arrhythmia in 
patients without 
CHF 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
ventricular 
arrhythmia 
evaluated as a 
medically 
important 
adverse 
reaction of 
special interest 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of ventricular arrhythmia, and appropriate 
advice to prescribers for patient selection and 
minimization of this risk are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.3 
(Contraindications), 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use), and 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
Patients with prolonged QT at baseline 
(uncorrected > 440 msec) 
Use of IV rhythm control anti-arrhythmics (class 
I and class III) within 4 hours prior to Brinavess 
administration. 
Acute coronary syndrome (including myocardial 
infarction) within the last 30 days 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
41of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
for use): 
Patients should be observed with assessment of 
vital signs and continuous cardiac rhythm 
monitoring during and after administration of 
Brinavess, until clinical and ECG parameters 
have stabilized. 
In patients with uncorrected hypokalaemia 
(serum potassium of less than 3.5 mmol/l), 
potassium levels should be corrected prior to 
use of Brinavess. 
During infusion of Brinavess, if patients develop 
clinically meaningful bradycardia and/or 
hypotension or develop ECG changes (such as a 
clinically meaningful sinus pause, complete 
heart block, new bundle branch block, 
significant prolongation of the QRS or QT 
interval, changes consistent with ischaemia or 
infarction and ventricular arrhythmia), the 
administration of Brinavess should be 
discontinued and these patients should receive 
appropriate medical management. If these 
events occur during the first infusion of 
Brinavess, patients should not receive the 
second dose of Brinavess. 
Congestive Heart Failure  
Patients with a history of CHF showed a higher 
incidence of ventricular arrhythmia in the first 
two hours post dose (7.3% for Brinavess 
compared to 1.6% in Placebo). These 
arrhythmias typically presented as 
asymptomatic, monomorphic, non-sustained 
(average 3-4 beats) ventricular tachycardias. 
By contrast, ventricular arrhythmias were 
reported with similar frequencies in patients 
without a history of CHF who were treated with 
either Brinavess or Placebo (3.2% for Brinavess 
vs. 3.6% for Placebo). 
Use of AADs (anti-arrhythmic drugs) prior to or 
after BRINAVESS 
BRINAVESS can not be recommended in 
patients previously administered intravenous 
AADs (class I and III) 4-24 hours prior to 
vernakalant, due to lack of data. BRINAVESS 
should not be administered in patients who 
received intravenous AADs (class I and III) 
within 4 hours prior to vernakalant (see section 
4.3). 
42of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
BRINAVESS should be used with caution in 
patients on oral AADs (class I and III), due to 
limited experience. Risk of atrial flutter may be 
increased in patients receiving class I AADs (see 
above). 
There is limited experience with the use of 
intravenous rhythm control anti-arrhythmics 
(class I and class III) in the first 4 hours after 
BRINAVESS administration, therefore these 
agents should be used cautiously within this 
period. Resumption or initiation of oral 
maintenance antiarrhythmic therapy can be 
considered starting 2 hours after vernakalant 
administration. 
Valvular Heart Disease 
In patients with valvular heart disease, there 
was a higher incidence of ventricular arrhythmia 
events in vernakalant patients. These patients 
should be monitored closely. 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects): 
Cardiac disorders    Uncommon: ventricular 
extrasystoles, ventricular tachycardia 
Description of selected adverse reactions:  
Clinically significant adverse reactions observed 
in clinical trials included hypotension and 
ventricular arrhythmia. (See section 4.4 
Hypotension, CHF). 
Important 
potential risk 
Atrial flutter 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
atrial flutter 
evaluated as a 
medically 
important 
adverse 
reaction of 
special interest 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of atrial flutter, and appropriate advice to 
prescribers for patient selection and 
minimization of this risk are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.2 (Posology and 
method of administration), 4.4 (Warnings and 
special precautions for use), and 4.8 
(Undesirable effects). 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration): 
If haemodynamically stable atrial flutter is 
observed after the initial infusion, the second 
infusion of Brinavess may be administered as 
patients may convert to sinus rhythm. (See 4.8) 
43of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Atrial Flutter  
Brinavess was not found to be effective in 
converting typical primary atrial flutter to sinus 
rhythm. Patients receiving Brinavess have a 
higher incidence of converting to atrial flutter 
within the first 2 hours post-dose.  This risk is 
higher in patients who use Class I 
antiarrhythmics (see section 4.8).  If atrial 
flutter is observed as secondary to treatment, 
continuation of infusion should be considered 
(see 4.2). 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects): 
Cardiac disorders  Common: Atrial flutter 
Description of selected adverse reactions:  
Atrial Flutter 
Atrial fibrillation patients receiving Brinavess 
have a higher incidence of converting to atrial 
flutter within the first 2 hours postdose (10% 
vs. 2.5% in placebo). With continuation of the 
medicine infusion as recommended above, the 
majority of these patients continue to convert 
to sinus rhythm. In the remaining patients, 
electrical cardioversion can be recommended. 
No patient with atrial flutter following treatment 
with Brinavess developed 1:1 atrioventricular 
conduction. 
Important 
potential risk 
Overdose / 
Medication error 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.     Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
data will be 
collected to assess 
vernakalant dosing 
Proposed SmPC 
Detailed instructions for preparation, dosing and 
administration of vernakalant are provided in 
the proposed SmPC in section 4.2 (Posology 
and method of administration).  Information 
about human experience with overdose is 
provided in section 4.9 (Overdose) 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration): 
Brinavess is dosed by patient body weight, with 
a maximum calculated dose based upon 113 
kgs. 
The recommended initial infusion is 3 mg/kg to 
be infused over a 10 minute period. For patients 
weighing ≥ 113 kg, do not exceed the 
44of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
maximum initial dose of 339 mg (84.7 ml of 4 
mg/ml solution).  If conversion to sinus rhythm 
does not occur within 15 minutes after the end 
of the initial infusion, a second 10 minute 
infusion of 2 mg/kg may be administered.  For 
patients weighing ≥ 113 kg, do not exceed the 
maximum second infusion of 226 mg (56.5 ml 
of 4 mg/ml solution).  Cumulative doses of 
greater than 5 mg/kg should not be 
administered within 24 hours.  There are no 
clinical data on repeat doses after the initial and 
second infusions. 
[Further detailed instructions for preparation, 
dosing, and administration of Brinavess will be 
included when the final, approved Brinavess 
SmPC is available.] 
Section 4.9 (Overdose): 
No case of overdose with Brinavess has been 
reported in clinical trials.  One patient who 
received 3 mg/kg of Brinavess over 5 minutes 
(instead of the recommended 10 minutes) 
developed haemodynamically stable wide 
complex tachycardia which resolved without 
sequelae. 
2. Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will provide specific instructions for 
preparation, dosing, and administration of 
vernakalant injection. 
Important missing 
information 
Patients with heart 
failure  NYHA class 
III and IV 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
heart failure 
status and 
NYHA class of 
registry 
patients will be 
evaluated 
Proposed SmPC 
Risk of hypotension and ventricular arrhythmia 
in patients with heart failure NYHA class III or 
IV, and appropriate advice to prescribers for 
patient selection and minimization of these risks 
are provided in the proposed SmPC in sections 
4.3 (Contraindications), and 4.4 (Warnings and 
special precautions for use).  Use of vernakalant 
injection in heart failure NYHA class III and IV is 
specifically contraindicated. 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
 [Text describing contraindication of use in 
patients with heart failure NYHA class III and IV 
45of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
will be included when the final, approved 
Brinavess SmPC is available.] 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
Hypotension 
Hypotension can occur in a small number of 
patients (vernakalant 7.6%, placebo 5.1%). 
Hypotension typically occurs early, either during 
the infusion or early after the end of the 
infusion, and can usually be corrected by 
standard supportive measures. Patients with 
congestive heart failure (CHF) have been 
identified as a population at higher risk for 
hypotension.  (See section 4.8). 
Congestive Heart Failure  
Patients with CHF showed a higher overall 
incidence of hypotensive events, during the first 
2 hours after dose in patients treated with 
vernakalant compared to patients receiving 
placebo (16.1% vs. 4.7%, respectively). In 
patients without CHF, the incidence of 
hypotension was not significantly different 
during the first 2 hours after dose in patients 
treated with vernakalant compared to patients 
receiving placebo (5.7% vs. 5.2%, 
respectively).  Hypotension reported as a 
serious adverse experience or leading to 
medicine discontinuation occurred in CHF 
patients following exposure to Brinavess in 
2.9% of these patients compared to 0% in 
placebo. 
Patients with a history of CHF showed a higher 
incidence of ventricular arrhythmia in the first 
two hours post dose (7.3% for Brinavess 
compared to 1.6% in placebo). These 
arrhythmias typically presented as 
asymptomatic, monomorphic, non-sustained 
(average 3-4 beats) ventricular tachycardias. 
By contrast, ventricular arrhythmias were 
reported with similar frequencies in patients 
without a history of CHF who were treated with 
either Brinavess or placebo (3.2% for Brinavess 
vs. 3.6% for placebo) 
Due to the higher incidence of the adverse 
events of hypotension and ventricular 
arrhythmia in patients with CHF, vernakalant 
should be used cautiously in haemodynamically 
46of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
stable patients with CHF functional classes 
NYHA I to II. There is limited experience with 
the use of vernakalant in patients with 
previously documented LVEF ≤ 35%, its use in 
these patients is not recommended.  The use in 
CHF patients (corresponding to NYHA III or 
NYHA IV) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
2. Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will identify the risk of hypotension 
and ventricular arrhythmia with vernakalant use 
in patients with heart failure, and provide 
appropriate advice to minimise this risk.  
Guidance for appropriate patient selection will 
be provided, including the contraindication of 
vernakalant in patients with NYHA class III and 
IV heart failure, and precautions regarding 
patients with hemodynamically stable NYHA 
class I to II heart failure (use with caution). 
Important missing 
information 
Diseases / 
Conditions not 
studied in clinical 
trials: 
  Patients 
with 
prolonged 
QT 
(uncorrecte
d > 440 
msec) 
  Patients 
with severe 
bradycardia
, sinus 
node 
dysfunction
, and 
second and 
third 
degree 
heart block 
(without 
1.  Routine 
1.  Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
medical history 
data will be 
collected 
Proposed SmPC 
Information regarding limited experience with 
vernakalant injection in specific patient groups, 
and appropriate advice for the prescriber 
regarding patient selection are provided in the 
proposed SmPC in sections 4.3 
(Contraindications), and 4.4 (Warnings and 
special precautions for use). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
Patients with prolonged QT at baseline 
(uncorrected >440 msec), or severe 
bradycardia (without pacemaker), sinus node 
dysfunction in the absence of a pacemaker.   
[Additional text providing further specifics about 
patients with heart block will be included when 
the final, approved Brinavess SmPC is 
available.] 
Section 4.4 (Warnings and special precautions 
for use): 
Other Diseases and Conditions not Studied 
Furthermore, Brinavess has not been evaluated 
in patients with clinically meaningful valvular 
stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive 
cardiomyopathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy, or 
47of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
pacemaker) 
  Patients 
with 
clinically 
meaningful 
valvular 
stenosis 
  Patients 
with 
hypertrophi
c 
obstructive 
cardiomyop
athy, 
restrictive 
cardiomyop
athy, or 
constrictive 
pericarditis 
Important missing 
information 
Off label use 
  Patients with 
severe aortic 
stenosis, or 
systolic blood 
pressure < 100 
mm HgPatients 
with recent 
myocardial 
infarction or 
acute coronary 
syndrome 
  Patients 
treated for 
arrhythmias 
other than 
atrial 
fibrillation 
constrictive pericarditis, and its use can not be 
recommended in such cases. 
2.  Additional Risk Minimization Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will identify key patient selection 
criteria, including contraindications, and 
information about patient populations with 
limited information from clinical trials, including 
advice regarding patients with clinically 
meaningful valvular stenosis, hypertrophic 
obstructive cardiomyopathy, restrictive 
cardiomyopathy, or constrictive pericarditis (use 
not recommended). 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
indication for 
vernakalant 
treatment will 
be evaluated 
Proposed SmPC 
Information about the recommended indication 
for use of vernakalant injection, and 
contraindication against use in patients with 
severe aortic stenosis hypotension, or recent 
myocardial infarction or acute coronary 
syndrome are provided in the proposed SmPC in 
sections 4.1 (Therapeutic indications), and 4.3 
(Contraindications). 
Section 4.1 (Therapeutic indications): 
Rapid conversion of recent onset atrial 
fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults 
For non-surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 7 
days duration 
For post-cardiac surgery patients: atrial 
fibrillation ≤ 3 days duration 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
Patients with severe aortic stenosis, patients 
with systolic blood pressure < 100 mm Hg 
Acute coronary syndrome (including myocardial 
infarction) within the last 30 days 
2. Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
48of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
1.  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
concomitant 
medication 
utilization data will 
be collected 
Important missing 
information 
Use of intravenous 
antiarrhythmic 
drugs (class I and 
class III) within 4-
24 hours prior to 
vernakalant 
administration 
Use of oral 
antiarrhythmic 
drugs (class I and 
class III) 
Programme 
Materials will identify key patient selection 
criteria, including indication for vernakalant use, 
contraindications, and information about patient 
populations at special risk. 
1.  Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed SmPC 
Appropriate advice to prescribers regarding use 
of antiarrhythmic drugs prior to vernakalant 
administration is provided in the proposed 
SmPC in sections 4.3 (Contraindications) and 
4.4 (Warnings and special precautions for use). 
Section 4.3 (Contraindications): 
 Use of intravenous rhythm control anti-
arrhythmics (class I and class III) within 4 
hours prior to Brinavess administration. 
Section 4.4 (Warnings and special precautions 
for use): 
Use of AADs (anti-arrhythmic drugs) prior to or 
after BRINAVESS  
BRINAVESS can not be recommended in 
patients previously administered intravenous 
AADs (class I and III) 4-24 hours prior to 
vernakalant, due to lack of data. BRINAVESS 
should not be administered in patients who 
received intravenous AADs (class I and III) 
within 4 hours prior to vernakalant (see section 
4.3). 
BRINAVESS should be used with caution in 
patients on oral AADs (class I and III), due to 
limited experience. Risk of atrial flutter may be 
increased in patients receiving class I AADs (see 
above). 
2.  Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will reinforce key patient management 
considerations, including contraindication of use 
of intravenous class I and class III 
antiarrhythmic agents within 4 hours prior to 
vernakalant infusion, and warnings and special 
precautions for use which state that BRINAVESS 
can not be recommended in patients previously 
administered intravenous AADs (class I and III) 
49of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important missing 
information 
Use of intravenous 
antiarrhythmic 
drugs (class I and 
class III) in the 
first 4 hours after 
vernakalant 
administration 
1.  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
concomitant 
medication 
utilization data will 
be collected 
4-24 hours prior to BRINAVESS, due to lack of 
data and that BRINAVESS should be used with 
caution in patients on oral AADs (class I and 
III), due to limited experience. 
1.  Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed SmPC 
Appropriate advice to prescribers regarding use 
of antiarrhythmic drugs following vernakalant 
administration is provided in the proposed 
SmPC in section 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use). 
Section 4.4 (Warnings and special precautions 
for use): 
There is limited experience with the use of 
intravenous rhythm control anti-arrhythmics 
(class I and class III) in the first 4 hours after 
Brinavess administration, therefore these 
agents should be used cautiously within this 
period. 
2.  Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will reinforce key patient management 
considerations, including advice to exercise 
caution when using intravenous class I and 
class III antiarrhythmic agents in the first 4 
hours following vernakalant infusion. 
Important missing 
information 
Patients with 
pacemakers 
1.  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
registry study:  
medical history 
data will be 
collected 
1.  Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed SmPC 
Information regarding limited experience with 
use of vernakalant injection in patients with 
pacemakers is provided in the proposed SmPC 
in section 4.4 (Warnings and special precautions 
for use). 
Section 4.4 (Warnings and special precautions 
for use): 
There is limited experience with Brinavess in 
patients with pacemakers. 
Important missing 
information 
Hepatic 
impairment 
1.  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
2.  Post-
authorisation 
1.  Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed SmPC 
Information  regarding limited experience with 
50of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
registry study:  
medical history 
data, and results of 
laboratory testing 
conducted as part 
of usual medical 
care will be 
collected 
vernakalant injection in patients with advanced 
hepatic impairment, and appropriate advice for 
the prescriber regarding patient selection and 
dosing are provided in the proposed SmPC in 
sections 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration), 4.4 (Warnings and special 
precautions for use), and 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic 
properties). 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration): 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment necessary (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions 
for use): 
As the clinical trial experience in patients with 
advanced hepatic impairment is limited, use of 
vernakalant is not recommended in these 
patients. 
Section 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties): 
Special patient groups 
Acute exposure is not significantly influenced by 
gender, history of congestive heart failure, renal 
impairment, or concomitant administration of 
beta blockers and other medications, including 
warfarin, metoprolol, furosemide and digoxin.  
In patients with hepatic impairment, exposures 
were elevated by 9 to 25%.  No dose 
adjustment of Brinavess is required for these 
conditions, nor on the basis of age, serum 
creatinine or CYP2D6 metaboliser status. 
2.  Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Proposed Healthcare Professional Education 
Programme 
Materials will reinforce key patient management 
considerations, including guidance that use of 
vernakalant in patients with advanced hepatic 
impairment is not recommended. 
Important missing 
information 
Use in pregnant or 
lactating women 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
nce 
Proposed SmPC 
Information regarding lack of human experience 
in pregnancy and/or lactation, and observations 
of fetal malformations in animal studies using 
the oral formulation of vernakalant are provided 
51of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
in the proposed SmPC in sections 4.6 (Fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation), and 5.3 (Preclinical 
safety data). 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation): 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of vernakalant 
hydrochloride in pregnant women.  Animal 
studies have shown malformations after 
repeated oral exposure (see section 5.3).  As a 
precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid 
the use of vernakalant during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether vernakalant /metabolites 
are excreted in human milk.  There is no 
information on the excretion of vernakalant 
/metabolites in animal milk.  A risk to the 
suckling child cannot be excluded.  Caution 
should be exercised when used in breastfeeding 
women. 
Fertility 
Vernakalant was not shown to alter fertility in 
animal studies. 
Section 5.3 (Preclinical safety data): 
With respect to reproduction no effects on 
pregnancy, embryofoetal development, 
parturition or postnatal development were 
observed after intravenous administration of 
vernakalant at exposure levels (AUC) similar or 
below the human exposure levels (AUC) 
achieved after a single intravenous dose of 
vernakalant.  In embryofetal development 
studies with oral administration of vernakalant 
two times a day resulting in exposure levels 
(AUC) generally higher than those achieved in 
humans after a single intravenous dose of 
vernakalant malformations 
(misshapen/absent/fused skull bones including 
cleft palates, bent radius, bent/misshapen 
scapula, constricted trachea, absent thyroid, 
undescendent testes) occurred in rats and 
increased embryofetal lethality, increased 
number of fetuses with fused and/or additional 
sternebrae were seen in rabbits at the highest 
doses tested. 
Important missing 
information 
1.  Routine 
1. Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
pharmacovigila
52of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Paediatric use 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed SmPC 
Information regarding lack of experience in 
paediatric patients and appropriate advice to 
the prescriber to avoid use in children and 
adolescents are provided in the proposed SmPC 
in section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration). 
Section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration): 
Paediatric population: There is no relevant use 
of Brinavess in children and adolescents < 18 
years of age in the current indication and 
therefore should not be used in this population. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all Healthcare Professionals (HCP) involved in the 
administration of Brinavess are provided with a healthcare professional information pack containing the 
following: 
Educational material for Healthcare Professionals 
Summary of Product Characteristics, Package Leaflet and Labelling 
Key elements to be included in the educational material: 
1.  Brinavess  should  be  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  after  dilution,  by  qualified  medical 
personnel in a monitored clinical setting appropriate for cardioversion. 
2.  Appropriate  measures  to  manage  and  minimize  the  risks,  including  the  need  for  close  monitoring 
during and after administration of Brinavess 
3.  Patient  selection  criteria,  including  contraindications,  special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use  and 
information about patient populations with limited information from clinical trials 
- Alert HCP on Brinavess contraindications: 
 
Patients  with  prolonged  QT  at  baseline  (uncorrected  >  440  msec),  or  severe 
bradycardia, sinus node dysfunction or second degree and third degree heart 
block in the absence of a pacemaker. 
  Use  of  intravenous  rhythm  control  anti-arrhythmics  (class  I  and  class  III) 
within 4 hours prior to BRINAVESS administration. 
  Acute  coronary  syndrome  (including  myocardial  infarction)  within  the  last  30 
 
days 
Patients  with  severe  aortic  stenosis,  patients  with  systolic  blood  pressure 
<100 mm Hg, and patients with heart failure class NYHA III and NYHA IV. 
-  Alert  HCP  about  Brinavess  special  warnings  and  precautions  in  patients  with,  clinically  meaningful 
valvular stenosis, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy, or constrictive 
pericarditis, previously documented LVEF ≤ 35%,  advanced hepatic impairment. 
53of 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Alert HCP about the need of precautions when using Brinavess in haemodynamically stable patients 
with congestive heart failure NYHA I and NYHA II and the need to monitor patients with valvular heart 
disease closely., 
- Alert HCP  for adverse events, which may occur after Brinavess administration, including hypotension, 
bradycardia, atrial flutter, or ventricular arrhythmia. 
-  Alert HCP for use of AADs (anti-arrhythmic drugs) prior to or after BRINAVESS. 
-  BRINAVESS  can  not  be  recommended  in  patients  previously  administered  intravenous  AADs 
(class I and III) 4-24 hours prior to vernakalant, due to lack of data. 
-  BRINAVESS  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  on  oral  AADs  (class  I  and  III),  due  to 
limited experience. Risk of atrial flutter may be increased in patients receiving class I AADs., 
-  Resumption  or  initiation  of  oral-maintenance  antiarrhythmic  therapy  can  be  considered  2 
hours after Brinavess administration. 
-    Intravenous  rhythm  control  AADs  should  be  used  cautiously  in  the  first  4  hours  after 
Brinavess administration. 
4.  Instructions  on  dose  calculation,  preparation  of  the  solution  for  infusion,  and  method  of 
administration. 
5. Brinavess may be available in different vial sizes [available vial sizes to be inserted locally].  The 
number of vials of BRINAVESS concentrate required to prepare the appropriate quantity of solution for 
the treatment of an individual patient will depend on the patient’s weight, and the vial size.  
User consultation 
A readability test has been performed by Luto Research Ltd, Leeds, UK. The testing process involved: 1 
a pilot test on 2 participants, 2 main tests on ten participants each. Twelve questions about the most 
critical  parts  of  the  package  leaflet  and  one  general  question  about  the  package  leaflet  were  asked. 
There  were  sufficient  questions  about  the  critical  sections.  Taking  into  account  the  results  for  each 
question more than 90 % of the participants finds the section and answered the question correctly. The 
conclusions  are  clear,  concise  and  clearly  presented.  The  questions  covered  the  following  areas 
sufficiently:  traceability,  comprehensibility  and  applicability.  The  patient  information  leaflet  has  been 
adapted sufficiently taking into account the results of the test.  
2.6 Benefit-risk balance  
2.6.1 Benefits 
2.6.1.1 Beneficial effects 
In  the  pooled  data  of  the  general  AF  population  (ACT  I/III,  n=390),  vernakalant  administration 
resulted in significantly higher conversion rate to SR (51.1%) compared to the placebo treated group 
(3.8%)  (%  difference  47.3%  95%  CI:  40.2-  54.4),  within  the  first  90  minutes.  Median  time  to 
conversion in the vernakalant group was 10 minutes compared to 31.5 minutes in the placebo group. 
For the patients who converted, rate of maintenance of sinus rhythm was 97.2% at 24 hours and 93% 
at 7 days. In the subgroup of patients with AF duration <48 hours, the rate of conversion to SR was 
significantly  higher  in  the  vernakalant  group  (61.2%)  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (4.9%). 
Vernakalant  administration  did  not  affect  the  response  of  the  patients  to  subsequent  electric 
cardioversion,  in  case  of  vernakalant  failure.  In  post-cardiac  surgery  patients  (ACT  II,  n=150), 
vernakalant  administration  resulted  in  significantly  higher  conversion  rate  to  SR  (47%)  compared  to 
the  placebo  treated  group  (14%)  (%  difference  33%  95%  CI:  19.3-  46.7).    The  median  time  to 
conversion was 12.4 minutes in the vernakalant group compared to 29.7 minutes in the placebo group. 
For the 48 patients with AF (AFL) who converted to sinus rhythm, rate of maintenance of sinus rhythm 
at 24 hours was 59.5% and 56.9% at 7 days compared to 50.0% in the placebo group at 24 hours and 
time of hospital discharge (or within 14 days).  
2.6.1.2 Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
No  robust  claims  can  be  made  on  maintenance  of  SR  beyond  24  hours  as  no  continuous  ECG 
monitoring  was  available  beyond  that  time.  In  the  three  placebo-controlled  studies,  the  recruitment 
criteria were quite broad, but that did not translate into adequate representation of some subgroups of 
interest,  in  particular  patients  with  NYHA  III/IV,  and  those  co-administered  rate  or  rhythm  control 
54of 57 
 
AADs. These subgroups are currently contraindicated in the SPC. The efficacy endpoint was measured 
at  90  minutes,  thereafter  other  interventions  were allowed.  A  specific  study  was  conducted  to  assess 
conversion  in  post-cardiac  surgery  patients.  Recruited  patients  were  of  shorter  duration  AF,  this 
difference in duration is currently reflected in the indication. Results of the general population of AF are 
better  than  those  reported  in  post-cardiac  surgery  patients,  but  these  were  still  significantly  better 
than placebo. The actively-controlled study against amiodarone showed vernakalant to be more rapid 
than  amiodarone,  with  the  caveat  that  amiodarone  may  not  have  been  the  best  comparator 
considering its known delayed onset of action. Still, compared with historical data, the overall rate of 
conversion  to  SR  reported  with  vernakalant  appears  at  least  comparable  to  that  reported  with 
amiodarone,  flecainide  or  ibutilide  with  a  shorter  time  to  conversion,  but  definite  conclusions  are  not 
possible without direct comparative data with those latter agents. 
2.6.2 Risks 
2.6.2.1 Unfavourable effects 
The safety database of vernakalant appears adequate with 507 patients administered the full dose (3 
mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg) and 241 patients administered the first dose (3 mg/kg). Due to the short 
half-life  of  vernakalant,  most  of  the  AEs  are  observed  during  the  first  2  hours  of  administration.  The 
most common treatment-related AEs reported during this period are dysgeusia, sneezing, parasethesia, 
nausea  and  hypotension.  These  AEs  were  described  as  mild  or  moderate  and  were  not  treatment-
limiting. The most frequently reported serious related AEs were hypotension (1% vernakalant vs 0.3% 
in placebo), bradycardia (0.4% in vernakalant vs 0 in placebo) and AV block (0.3% vernakalant vs 0 in 
placebo).  One  case  of  death  related  to  vernakalant  was  reported,  however,  the  patient  was 
erroneously  recruited  and  afterwards  administered  vernakalant  in  spite  of  the  stopping  rules.  Death 
was  preceded  by  hypotension  and  ventricular  fibrillation.  An  important  issue  is  the  proarrhythmic 
potential. Data clearly show QTcF prolongation with placebo-subtracted peaks of +22.1 msec (95% CI: 
18.9-25.3) at minute 10 and +18.8 msec (95% CI: 15.6-22) at minute 35, returning to baseline by 50 
minutes. Substantially more patients in the vernakalant group were observed with QTcF prolongations 
of ≥30 msec and ≥60 msec compared to the placebo group till the second hour after administration, 
although  the  absolute  number  of  patients  with  a  QTcF  prolongation  of  ≥60  msec  was  low.  Only  one 
event of TdP was recorded in which the causation is confounded by the co-administration of ibutilide. 
The  risk  of  developing  AFL  was  significantly  higher  following  vernakalant  (6.1%)  than  placebo 
(1.6%)(percent  risk  difference  4.5:  95%  CI  2.3  to  6.7),  but  no  patient  with  AFL  following  treatment 
with  vernakalant  injection  developed  1:1  atrioventricular  conduction.  Background  use  of  rhythm 
control agents was associated with a higher risk of developing AFL (percent risk difference of 6.8, 95% 
CI 4.0 to 9.7). 
2.6.2.2 Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The  actual  representation  of  different  subgroups  of  patients  in  safety  database  (e.g  non-white,  slow 
metabolisers or with associated medical conditions) may not be sufficient. Also clinical and non-clinical 
data on repeat administration is lacking. Non-clinical data support a lower potential of vernakalant to 
induce  TdP  than  other  AADs.  However,  the  current  safety  database  is  too  limited  to  give  a  realistic 
estimation  of  the  risk.  Also,  patients  with  CHF  did  show  an  increased  incidence  of  ventricular 
arrhythmias  compared  to  placebo,  although  the  incidence  was  low  and  VF  was  noted  only  once  in  a 
patient who should have been contraindicated. In summary, the proarrhythmic potential of vernakalant 
appears low, but in high-risk patients the risk is still present and more clinical data will show whether 
the risk for TdP is indeed as low as now suggested. Patients with congestive heart failure appear to be 
also at more risk for hypotension. The experience is mainly based on patients with NYHA I/II, whereas 
NYHA III were minimally represented and NYHA IV excluded. In turn, a low baseline SBP (<105 mmHg) 
and a history of CHF were the most important factors that increased risk of hypotension. The incidence 
of bradycardia in the 0-2 hour period was slightly higher in the vernakalant group (5.4%) compared to 
placebo (3.8%)  (percent risk difference 1.6; 95% CI:-1.1, 4.3), but this is probably driven by patients 
who converted to SR.  
2.6.2.3 Benefit-risk balance 
Vernakalant, concentrate for solution for infusion, is effective in converting AF of short duration to SR 
in  non-surgical  as  well  as  post-cardiac  surgery  patients.  The  conversion  rate  is  in  line  with  that 
reported  with  other  AADs  such  as  flecainide,  ibutilide  and  amiodarone.  Median  time  to  conversion  is 
55of 57 
 
very  short  making  it  a  relevant  option  for  highly  symptomatic  patients,  especially  when  compared  to 
amiodarone with longer time to conversion, as observed in the AVRO study. However the target group 
is probably different from that of amiodarone. Efficacy was accompanied by AEs mainly during the first 
2 hours of administration. The most frequently reported AE (dysegeusia, sneezing and parasthesia) did 
not impact on the tolerability of the drug, but their mechanism is not studied. The more serious AEs: 
hypotension or bradycardia are well defined for the general population, though also the mechanism is 
not known. Patients with low blood pressure or bradycardia at baseline appear to be at higher risk for 
developing these AEs. Patients with congestive heart failure (NYHA I/II) are another population at risk, 
showing a higher risk of hypotension and ventricular arrhythmia. There is limited experience in severer 
forms of CHF, but based on the current experience in NYHA I/II, vernakalant use is contraindicated in 
these patients. The arrhythmogenic potential of vernakalant appears limited based on both clinical and 
non-clinical data, however no robust conclusions can be made due to the limited experience. Compared 
to flecainide, there is also a higher incidence of conversion of AF to AFL, but this was not accompanied 
with 1:1 conduction.  
2.6.2.4 Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
In  summary  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  vernakalant  for  the  claimed  indication  is  considered  positive. 
Questions  remain  regarding  its  safety  in  patients  with  moderate  and  severe  heart  failure  and  its 
concomitant  administration  with  other  anti-arrhythmic  agents,  but  these  issues  are  addressed  by 
appropriate  labelling.  More  clinical  data  are  needed  before  final  conclusions  can  be  drawn  on  its 
proarrhythmic  potential.  For  all  identified  and  potential  risks  a  Post-authorisation  Registry  study  is 
requested.  The  aim  of  this  PASS  is  to  better  characterise  the  safety  profile  of  vernakalant  in  the 
context  of  normal  clinical  use  of  the  product.  Amongst  others,  the  incidence  of  hypotension  and 
ventricular arrhythmia will be estimated. In addition to the identified and potential risks, the following 
events of special interest will be collected: atrial flutter with 1:1 atrioventricular conduction of duration 
>10  seconds  and  ventricular  rate  >200  and      bradycardia  requiring  mechanical  pacing (temporary  or 
permanent).  The study is a prospective, observational study of vernakalant iv that will be conducted in 
multiple European countries. Countries under consideration include Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, 
the Netherlands, and Spain but final selection is conditional on a number of factors, including, but not 
limited to, the actual date of product launch in each country and rate of market uptake of vernakalant 
iv. The list of countries selected for the registry will be included in the draft registry protocol submitted 
to the CHMP by October 2010. Patients will receive vernakalant iv at the discretion of their physicians. 
Data collection will be performed during and shortly following vernakalant administration. The registry 
will  enrol  2,000  patients  across  participating  EU  countries.  The  sample  size  was  selected  in  order  to 
have  sufficient  statistical  precision  as  expressed  by  a  2-sided,  95%  confidence  limit  around  the 
expected incidence rate for each medically significant health outcomes of interest (HOIs).  
56of 57 
The  incidence  of  each  medically  significant  HOI  during  the  first  24  hours  post-vernakalant 
administration  among  subjects  randomised  to  receive  vernakalant  iv  in  the  pooled  clinical  trial 
database (n=889, including the AVRO Study) ranged from 0% to 0.22% for each HOI. 
2.6.2.5 Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
plus 
the  following  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required:  all  Healthcare  Professionals  (HCP) 
involved  in  the  administration  of  Brinavess  are  provided  with  a  healthcare  professional  information 
pack. 
2.6.3 Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Brinavess  in  the  rapid  conversion  of  recent  onset  atrial 
fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults 
o 
o 
for non-surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 7 days duration 
for  post-cardiac  surgery  patients:  atrial  fibrillation  ≤  3  days  duration  was  favourable 
and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
57of 57 
 
  
 
 
 
