Part VI:  Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Brintellix (Vortioxetine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Brintellix. The RMP details 
important risks of Brintellix, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Brintellix's risks and uncertainties (Missing Information). 
Brintellix's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Brintellix should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Brintellix should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Brintellix's RMP. 
I:  The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Brintellix is authorised for the treatment of major depressive episodes in adults. It contains 
vortioxetine as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Brintellix’s benefits can be found in Brintellix’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002717/hu
man_med_001714.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II:  Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Brintellix, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Brintellix's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Brintellix is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘Missing Information’ below. 
II.A:  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Brintellix are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Brintellix. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing Information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
•  Serotonin syndrome 
Important Potential Risks 
•  None 
Missing Information 
•  Off-label paediatric use 
II.B:  Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Serotonin syndrome (SSRI/SNRI class effect) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
This identified risk is based upon vortioxetine’s serotonergic mechanism of 
action and the class label of SSRIs/SNRIs. Post-marketing cases of 
serotonin syndrome have been reported, mainly when vortioxetine was 
concomitantly used with other serotonergic drugs. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Overdose and co-administration with other drugs that increase serotonin are 
established risk factors for the development of serotonin syndrome. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
•  SmPC section 4.3: Contraindication for concomitant use with 
nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or selective MAO-
A inhibitors 
•  SmPC section 4.4: Warning on the potential risk of serotonin syndrome 
and information on how to ensure patient safety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Serotonin syndrome (SSRI/SNRI class effect) 
•  SmPC section 4.5: Warning on potential for drug interaction with drugs 
that increase serotonin 
•  SmPC section 4.8: Serotonin syndrome is included as adverse reaction 
•  SmPC section 4.9 (proposed): Serotonin syndrome is included as an 
adverse event that has been reported following an overdose 
Addition pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
•  None 
Missing Information: Off label paediatric use 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
•  SmPC section 4.1: Information on the authorised indication 
•  SmPC section 4.2: Information on lack of experience with paediatric use 
•  SmPC section 4.4: Warning concerning use in the paediatric population 
•  SmPC section 5.1: Information on waiver obtained for investigating 
efficacy and safety in children younger than 7 years 
Addition pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
•  None 
II.C:  Post-Authorization Development Plan 
II.C.1:  Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Brintellix. 
II.C.2:  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no other studies in the Post-Authorization Development Plan.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
