Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 1
EUROPEAN UNION (EU) RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
FOR 
BRINEURA (cerliponase alfa; BMN 190) 
Date of Report 
24 November 2023 
BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. 
105 Digital Drive 
Novato, CA 94949 USA 
RMP Version Number: 
5.0 
Data Lock Point for this RMP: 
26 April 2022 
Date of final sign off 
24 November 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 7
ABBREVIATIONS  
ADA 
AE 
CFR 
CLN2 
CNS 
CSF 
CTCAE 
CV 
ECG 
EEA 
EEG 
ERT 
EU 
EudraCT 
FDA 
GLP 
GMP 
HCP 
HED 
ICF 
ICH 
ICH E6 
ICV 
IND 
IT 
IT-C 
IT-L 
KO 
MedDRA 
MRI 
NCI 
NOAEL 
QOW  
PASS 
PAES 
PK 
PL 
rhTPP1 
SAE 
SmPC 
TPP1 
US 
WT 
anti-drug antibody 
adverse event 
Code of Federal Regulations 
also known as classical late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis [cLINCL], NCL2, or 
Jansky-Bielschowsky disease 
central nervous system 
cerebrospinal fluid 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Cardiovascular 
Electrocardiogram 
European Economic Area 
Electroencephalogram 
enzyme replacement therapy 
European Union 
European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials 
Food and Drug Administration 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
Healthcare provider 
human equivalent dose 
informed consent form 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration 
of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline: Guideline for Good Clinical Practice E6 
Intracerebroventricular 
Investigational New Drug (application) 
Intrathecal 
intrathecal-cisternal 
intrathecal-lumbar 
knock-out  
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
magnetic resonance imaging 
National Cancer Institute 
no-observed-adverse-effect level 
every other week 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study 
Post-Authorisation Efficacy Study 
Pharmacokinetics 
Package leaflet 
recombinant human tripeptidyl peptidase-1 
serious adverse event 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
tripeptidyl peptidase-1 
United States 
wild-type 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 8
PART I:  PRODUCT OVERVIEW 
Active substance (INN or common 
name) 
Cerliponase alfa 
Pharmacotherapeutic group(s) 
(ATC Code) 
Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, enzymes 
(A16AB17) 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(or Applicant) 
BioMarin International Limited 
Shanbally Ringaskiddy 
County Cork, Ireland 
Medicinal products to which this 
RMP refers 
1 
Invented name(s) in the European 
Economic Area (EEA) 
Brineura 
Marketing authorisation 
procedure 
Brief description of the 
product including: 
•
•
•
chemical class
summary of mode of action
important information
about  its composition (eg,
origin of active substance
of biological, relevant
adjuvants or residues for
vaccines)
Centralised procedure 
Cerliponase alfa is a recombinant form of human tripeptidyl 
peptidase-1 (rhTPP1) and is produced in mammalian Chinese 
Hamster Ovary cells. 
As an Enzyme Replacement therapy (ERT), cerliponase alfa is 
given as an intracerebroventricular infusion to facilitate delivery 
of TPP1 widely to cells of the central nervous system, and 
expected to restore TPP1 activity, and reduce the accumulation 
of storage material. 
Hyperlink to the product 
information 
Module 1.3.1 
Indication(s) in the EEA 
   Current (if applicable) 
Brineura is indicated for the treatment of neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2) disease, also known as 
tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (TPP1) deficiency. 
   Proposed (if applicable) 
Not applicable 
 
Dosage in the EEA 
   Current (if applicable) 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 9
The recommended dose is 300 mg cerliponase alfa 
administered once every other week by 
intracerebroventricular  infusion.  In patients less than 2 
years of age, lower doses are recommended; Brineura 
should be administered according to the following 
recommended dose once every  other week: 
•
•
•
•
Birth to < 6 months: 100 mg
6 months to < 1 year: 150 mg
1 year to < 2 years: 200 mg (first 4 doses), 300 mg
(subsequent doses)
≥ 2 years: 300 mg
   Proposed (if applicable) 
Not applicable 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and 
strengths 
   Current (if applicable) 
Each vial of Brineura contains 150 mg of cerliponase alfa* in 
5 ml of solution.  
Each ml of solution for infusion  contains 30 mg of 
cerliponase alfa. 
* Cerliponase alfa is produced in mammalian Chinese
Hamster Ovary cells.
Clear to slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow 
solution, that may occasionally contain thin translucent fibres or 
opaque particles. 
   Proposed (if applicable) 
Not applicable 
Is/will the product be subject to 
additional monitoring in the EU? 
Yes 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 10
PART II:  SAFETY SPECIFICATION 
Module SI:  Epidemiology of the indication and target population 
Indication – CLN2 disease (also known as TPP1 deficiency, classical late-infantile 
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses [cLINCL], NCL2, or Jansky-Bielschowsky disease) 
Incidence: 
CLN2 disease is a rare genetic disorder characterized by the deficiency of tripeptidyl 
peptidase-1 (TPP1) caused by mutations in the CLN2 gene. Most epidemiological studies 
of CLN2 disease originated before molecular diagnosis and  suggest an estimated 
incidence in the range of 0.15 to 0.78 per 100,000 live births in European countries 
including Portugal, Germany, Czech Republic and the United Kingdom (Claussen 1992; 
Teixeira 2003; Poupetova 2010; Williams 2011). Reported incidence in selected 
geographic regions of Canada is higher than those in Europe (2.2 to 9.0 per 100,000 live 
births) (MacLeod 1976; Moore 2008). 
Prevalence: 
The estimated population prevalence of CLN2 disease ranges from 0.15 to 0.75 per 
million in western European countries (Williams 2011); while observed prevalence in 
Scandinavia is slightly higher at 0.54 to 0.7 per million population (Uvebrant 1997; 
Williams 2011).   
Demographics of the population in the authorised/proposed indication (age, gender, racial 
and/or ethnic origin) and risk factors for the disease: 
There is limited information available on the demographic distribution of neuronal ceroid 
lipofuscinosis (NCL), also called Batten disease. While the prevalence of CLN2 varies 
worldwide, CLN2 prevalence is highest in Scandinavia and parts of Canada which has 
been attributed to small population and relative high amounts of parental consanguinity 
(Simpson 2014; Moore 2008). 
Main existing treatment options: 
The only disease modifying treatment option is Brineura (cerliponase alfa; BMN 190). 
Brineura is an enzyme-replacement therapy (ERT) that was approved for marketing in the 
United States on 27 April 2017 and in the European Union on 30 May 2017 for the 
treatment of patients with CLN2 disease (tripeptidyl-peptidase-1 [TPP1] deficiency). 
CLN2 patients also receive supportive care - symptomatic alleviation of seizures 
(anticonvulsants), motor control loss (bracing or  wheelchairs), and feeding (gastrostomy 
tube). 
Natural history of the indicated condition in the untreated population, including mortality 
and morbidity: 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 11
As a result of TPP1 enzyme deficiency, lysosomal storage material accumulation in the 
CNS is associated with neurodegeneration and, ultimately, death in late childhood to early 
adolescence. The onset of symptoms is typically between the ages of 2 and 4 years old 
(Kurachi 2000; Chang 2011; Nickel 2018) with an average age of diagnosis of 5 
years.  Patients with CLN2 disease typically present initially with seizures and a history 
of language delay, followed by ataxia, myoclonus, impaired speech, cognitive 
impairment, and developmental regression.  The seizures and myoclonus, as well as other 
movement disorders, are intractable and difficult to control.  A decline in vision and 
motor skills follows with patients becoming blind and wheelchair bound by 
approximately 6 years of age.  Swallowing also becomes impaired and patients become 
G tube dependent for feeding and have a high risk of aspiration.  Patients enter into a 
vegetative state and become fully dependent on their caregivers during the later stages of 
the disease. The majority of individuals with CLN2 disease present with the classic late-
infantile phenotype, which has a rapidly progressing and predictable clinical course, with 
death typically occurring between the age of 5 years and mid-adolescence 
(Steinfeld 2002; Williams 2006). As with other enzyme deficiencies, CLN2 disease has a 
spectrum of phenotypes; the other atypical phenotypes are less common. Atypical 
phenotypes are associated with earlier or later symptom onset, variable symptoms and/or 
slower rate of progression, but still lead to neurodegeneration and premature death 
(Kohan 2013; Sun 2013; DiGiacopo 2015). 
Important co-morbidities: 
Co-morbidities of CLN2 relate to the condition itself and reflect the progression of the 
disease. Other than the conditions discussed above, a review of the literature did not 
reveal any other comorbidities occurring in this patient population.  
Module SII:  Non-clinical part of the safety specification 
The nonclinical program consists of one in vitro study in TPP1 deficient fibroblasts, and 8 
in vivo studies, including 3 single-dose studies in beagles and monkeys, and 5 repeat-dose 
studies in TPP1 KO mouse, and TPP1-null and WT Dachshund dogs.  These studies are 
summarized in Table 1 below. 
The safety and efficacy profile of cerliponase alfa, as assessed in the nonclinical program, 
supports the chronic ICV administration of cerliponase alfa at doses up to 960 mg 
administered every other week to CLN2 pediatric patients. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 12
Table 1:  Cerliponase Alfa Nonclinical Study Overview 
Study Description and Number 
Test System 
Testing Site 
Administration Schedule  Parameters Evaluated  GLP  Study Status 
Route (Inf. 
Duration) 
PRIMARY PHARMACODYNAMICS 
Dose, Duration, and 
Cellular Uptake Determination of 
BMN 190 in TPP1-Deficient  Human 
Fibroblasts (TR-00195) 
TPP1- 
deficient 
fibroblasts 
BioMarin 
Pharmaceutical Inc. 
In vitro 
Beagle 
Covance, Madison, WI  IT-C 
8, 33, or 128 mg, 1-4 day 
recovery 
SINGLE DOSE STUDIES 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
Northern Biomedical 
Research, 
Muskegon, MI 
ICV 
(~4 hr) 
5, 14, or 20 mg, 3, 7, or 
14 day recovery 
Activity Kuptake
No 
Complete 
No 
Complete 
Yesa
  Complete 
Gross pathology CNS 
distribution 
CNS, liver, plasma, urine, 
and CSF TPP1 activity 
Toxicity 
CSF/plasma 
immunogenicity 
CSF/plasma TK 
CNS distribution ECG 
Cynomolgus 
monkey 
Northern Biomedical 
Research, 
Muskegon, MI 
IT-L 
(~4 hr) 
14 mg, 3 day recovery 
Toxicity CSF/plasma TK 
CNS distribution 
No 
Complete 
Single Intrathecal Cisternal (IT-C) 
Administration CNS Distribution 
Study 
0190-08-034 
Single Intracerebroventricular (ICV) 
Administration Toxicity, 
Toxicokinetic and CNS Distribution 
Study 
(0190-09-071) 
(Vuillemenot, 2014)  
Single Intrathecal Lumbar (IT-L) 
Administration Toxicity, 
Toxicokinetic and CNS Distribution 
Study 
(BMN190-11-046) 
Repeat IT-L Administration 
Pharmacology Study (BMN190-12-
010) 
Reference: (Xu 2011) 
TPP1 KO 
mouse 
University of Medicine 
and Dentistry of New 
Jersey, Piscataway, NJ 
IT-L 
3 daily doses of 0.27 mg 
given to 15 week old  mice 
3 daily doses of 0.4 mg 
given to 4 week old mice 
CNS enzyme activity 
Lysosomal storage 
material Gait analysis 
Lifespan 
No 
Complete 
REPEAT DOSE STUDIES 
  
Study Description and Number 
Test System 
Testing Site 
Route (Inf. 
Duration) 
Dose, Duration, and 
Administration Schedule 
Parameters Evaluated 
GLP 
Study 
Status 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 13
Three Month Repeat IT-C 
Administration Toxicity, CNS 
Distribution and Pharmacology 
Study 
(0190-09-066) 
Reference: Vuillemenot, 2011 
Nine Month Repeat 
Intracerebroventricular 
Administration Pharmacology, 
Toxicity and Toxicokinetic Study 
in Wild-type and TPP1-null 
Dachshund Dogs 
(0190-10-077) 
(Vuillemenot, 2014) 
Forty-Four Week Biweekly 
Intracerebroventricular (ICV) 
Infusion Study of BMN 190 in a 
Dachshund Model of CLN2 
(BMN190-12-009) 
(Katz, 2014) 
TPP1-null  and 
WT Dachshund 
dog 
(4 months old) 
University of 
Missouri, 
Columbia, MO 
IT-C 
(bolus) 
32 mg, monthly for 3 
months 
TPP1-null  and 
WT Dachshund 
dog 
(2.5 months old) 
University of 
Missouri, 
Columbia, MO 
ICV, IT-L, 
and IT-Cb
(~2 or 4 hr) 
0, 4, or 16 mg, every other 
week for at least 9  months 
TPP1-null 
Dachshund dog 
(2.5 months old) 
University of 
Missouri, 
Columbia, MO 
ICV, IT- 
L,and IT- 
Cb
(~4 hr) 
Up to 48 mgc every other 
week for up to 18 months 
No 
Complete 
No 
Complete 
No 
Complete 
Toxicity Plasma TK 
CNS distribution 
CSF/plasma immunogenicity 
Neurological, visual, and 
cognitive function 
Brain MRI EEG 
Lysosomal storage material 
CSF/plasma clinical pathology 
Gross and microscopic 
pathology 
CSF/plasma immunogenicity 
CSF/plasma PK 
CNS distribution Neurological, 
visual, and cognitive function 
Brain MRI Lifespan extension 
Lysosomal storage material 
CSF/plasma clinical pathology 
Gross and microscopic 
pathology 
CSF/plasma PK CNS 
distribution 
Neurological, visual, and 
cognitive function 
Brain MRI 
Lifespan extension 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 14
Study Description and Number 
Test System 
Testing Site 
Thirty-nine week 
Intracerebroventricular (ICV) 
Infusion Study of BMN 190 in a 
Dachshund Model of CLN2 
(BMN190-12-027) 
TPP1-null  and 
WT Dachshund 
dog (4 months old) 
University of 
Missouri, 
Columbia, MO 
Route (Inf. 
Duration) 
ICV, IT-L 
and IT-Cb (~4 hr) 
Dose, Duration, and 
Administration Schedule 
Up to 16 mgd every other 
week for up to 6 months 
Parameters Evaluated 
GLP 
Study 
Status 
No 
Complete 
CSF/plasma clinical pathology 
Gross and microscopic 
pathology 
CSF/plasma PK Neurological, 
visual, and cognitive function 
Brain MRI ECG 
Lifespan extension 
CNS, central nervous system; CSF, cerebrospinal fluid, CV, cardiovascular; ECG, electrocardiogram; EEG, electroencephalogram; GLP, Good Laboratory Practices; ICV, 
intracerebroventricular; IT-C, intrathecal-cisternal; IT-L, intrathecal-lumbar; KO, knock out; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; TPP1, tripeptidyl peptidase-1; WT, wild- 
type 
aConducted in compliance with United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Good Laboratory Practice Regulations (GLP) (21 CFR, Part 58), the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and 
Welfare (MHLW) Good Laboratory Practice Standards Ordinance 21, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Principles of Good Laboratory Practice, 
ENV/MC/CHEM (98) 17. 
bICV/IT catheters have a limited patency in dogs. The ICV infusion route was used as long as the ICV catheters remained patent.  If the ICV catheter was no longer patent,  then the IT-L infusion 
route was used.  If the IT-L catheter was no longer patent, then IT-C bolus administration was used. 
cDue to infusion associated reactions that occurred after 48 mg dose #2 or #3, dose level was reduced to 2 mg and gradually increased back to 48 mg over 4 months to tolerize  animals to 
cerliponase alfa 
dDue to infusion associated reactions that occurred after repeat administration at the 16 mg, dose level was reduced to 2 mg and gradually increased to tolerize animals to cerliponase alfa. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 15
The following summarizes key safety findings from non-clinical studies and their 
relevance to human usage. 
Toxicity 
Key issues identified from acute or repeat-dose toxicity studies 
•
Inflammation associated with long-term catheter placement and/or administration
of exogenous protein
Reproductive/developmental toxicity 
• Not evaluated
Genotoxicity 
• Not evaluated
Carcinogenicity 
• Not evaluated
Safety Pharmacology 
Cardiovascular system, including potential effects on the QT interval 
• Not observed in non-clinical studies
Nervous system 
• Not observed in non-clinical studies
Nephrotoxicity and Hepatotoxicity 
• Not observed in non-clinical studies
Other toxicity-related information or data 
Nonclinical studies revealed four main findings: 
1. delivery device-related inflammation in monkeys and Dachshund dogs adjacent to
the CNS catheters and infusion site;
2. detection of anti-cerliponase alfa antibodies in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) in WT and TPP1-null  Dachshund dogs after repeat administration;
3. hypersensitivity reactions in Dachshund dogs after repeat dosing with the
heterologous human protein; and
4. drop in plasma exposure after repeat dosing, with an apparent maintenance of CSF
cerliponase alfa  concentrations and a dose-dependent CNS tissue distribution.
Anti-cerliponase alfa antibodies were first detected in dogs administered cerliponase alfa 
by ICV infusion by Day 14 and Day 29 in plasma and CSF, respectively. Anti-cerliponase 
alfa titers increased over time until approximately Day 100, then remained stable for the 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 16
remainder of the study. Titer ranges in the CSF and plasma were similar. The presence of 
antibodies correlated with a decrease in cerliponase alfa exposure in the plasma of 4 and 
16 mg treated animals by Dose 10. However, the presence of anti-cerliponase alfa 
antibodies in the CSF did not appear to correlate with a reduction in CSF drug levels by 
Dose 10 in animals treated with 16 mg of cerliponase alfa. 
Scaling from the dog to the human equivalent dose (HED) was based on a 20:1 ratio 
between human and Dachshund dog brain mass.  An average brain mass of 1000 g was 
used in calculations. The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of 48 mg from the 
repeat-dose dog studies yields a  HED of 960 mg when scaled for brain weight. 
Based on these findings, no additional non-clinical studies are planned. 
Module SIII:  Clinical trial exposure  
During development, a total of 24 patients with CLN2 were enrolled in Study 190-201;  
23 of these 24 patients  continued with enrollment in Study 190-202 and a total of 14 
patients with CLN2 were enrolled in Study 190-203. All participants received at least one 
dose of cerliponase alfa. 
Cumulative participant exposure is represented in Table SIII.1. Clinical trial exposure is 
defined as any participant who received at least 1 dose of cerliponase alfa during the 
study. Analysis of cumulative exposure data by age group and sex, dose, and racial group 
is provided in Table SIII.2, Table SIII.3, and Table SIII.4. 
Summaries of the patients enrolled in 190-201/202 and 190-203 by duration of exposure 
in 190-201, 190-202  and 190-203, dose, age group, and gender are provided below 
Table SIII.1:  Cumulative Participant Exposure to Brineura in Clinical Trials 
Dose Received 
30 mg QOW 
100 mg QOW 
300 mg QOW 
300 mg QOW 
200 mg QOW 
300 mg QOW 
Trial Number 
190-201
190-202 
190-203
Totals 
190-201/202
190-203
Total 
Number of Participants 
3 
6 
24 
23 
5 
14 
24 
14 
38 
QOW – every other week 
Participants in 190-201 who completed 48 weeks of treatment at 300 mg QOW could enroll in 190-202 for additional 
treatment. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 17
Table SIII.2:  Cumulative Participant Exposure by Duration 
30 mg 
100 mg 
200 mg 
300 mg a 
Duration 
of 
Exposure  Persons 
Up to 24 
Weeks 
3 
48 Weeks 
and 
Above 
0 
0 
Person-
Time 
Person-
Time 
Person-
Time 
(Months)  Persons 
(Months)  Persons 
(Months)  Persons 
Person-
Time 
(Months) 
4.35 
6 
0 
5.37 
0 
5 
0 
7.98 
1 
0.03 
0 
37 
1890.08 
6.9*6*7/I a Table reflects combined participant exposure from clinical trials 190-201/202 and 190-203.  
Table SIII.3:  Cumulative Participant Exposure By Age Group and Sex 
Age Group (years) at 
Screening 
Malea 
Femalea 
≤ 5 years 
> 5 years
Total 
13 
2 
15 
21 
2 
23 
a Table reflects combined participant exposure from clinical trials 190-201/202 and 190-203.  
Table SIII.4:  Cumulative Participant Exposure By Dose 
Dose of exposure 
Persons 
Person-time (months) 
30 mg 
100 mg 
200 mg 
300 mg 
3 
6 
5 
38a 
4.35 
5.37 
7.98 
1890.11a 
a Table reflects combined participant exposure from clinical trials 190-201/202 and 190-203.  
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 18
Table SIII.5:  By Ethnic or Racial Origin 
Race 
Asian 
Black or African American 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
White 
Other 
Ethnicity 
Hispanic or Latino 
Not Hispanic or Latino 
Persons 
 1 (3%) 
0 
0 
37 (97%) 
0 
Persons 
3 (8%) 
35 (92%) 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 19
Module SIV:  Populations not studied in clinical trials 
SIV.1:  Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the development 
programme 
Participant has contraindications for neurosurgery (eg, severe respiratory impairment, 
clotting abnormalities) 
• Reason for exclusion: Participants who cannot undergo neurosurgery will not be
able to have the required implantation of the ICV access device necessary for
delivery of BMN 190.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Neurosurgery will be required for Brineura administration in the post-
marketing setting; participants who are not suitable for neurosurgery will be
contraindicated from receiving Brineura treatment.
Participant age 16 years or older 
• Reason for exclusion: Patients with CLN2 disease who reach age 16 are rare.
Reaching this age while still having mild CLN2 disease would not be
representative of the typical CLN2 disease population and thus might influence
the study results.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: Yes (use in patients above
8 years of age; use in patients with advanced CLN2 disease).
Participant has another inherited neurologic disease or has another neurological illness 
that may have caused cognitive decline (eg, trauma, meningitis, hemorrhage) 
• Reason for exclusion: The effects of other neurologic diseases and illnesses could
affect the consistency and interpretation of study assessments.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Treating physicians can determine whether the potential benefits of
Brineura therapy outweigh the risks of concurrent illnesses/conditions on a case-
by-case basis.
Participant requires ventilation support, except for noninvasive support at night 
• Reason for exclusion: To ensure patient safety in use of a drug whose safety
profile had not yet been established.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Treating physicians can determine whether the potential benefits of
Brineura therapy outweigh the risks of life-support device complications on a
case-by-case basis.
Participant has received stem cell, gene therapy, or other ERT for CLN2 disease, or has 
received any investigational medication within 30 days before the start of BMN 190 
treatment 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 20
• Reason for exclusion: Use of other therapies or investigational products could
affect the consistency and interpretation of study assessments.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Treating physicians can determine whether the potential benefits of
Brineura therapy outweigh the risks of concurrent therapies on a case-by-case
basis.
Participant has generalized motor status epilepticus within 4 weeks before the first dose 
(on both EEG and clinical examination) 
• Reason for exclusion: The effects of other neurologic diseases and illnesses could
affect the consistency and interpretation of study assessments.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Treating physicians can determine whether the potential benefits of
Brineura therapy outweigh the risks of disease complications on a case-by-case
basis.
Participant is prone to complications from ICV drug administration, including 
participants with hydrocephalus or ventriculo-peritoneal shunts. 
• Reason for exclusion: ICV access device implantation is required, and
complications from ICV access device placement could confound findings and
jeopardize participant safety.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Treating physicians can determine whether the potential benefits of
Brineura therapy outweigh the risks of ICV access device complications on a
case-by-case basis.
Participant has a known hypersensitivity to cerliponase alfa or any of its components 
• Reason for exclusion: The safety profile of cerliponase alfa had not yet been
established.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: No.
• Rationale: Cases of hypersensitivity occurred in clinical studies. Events were self-
resolving or readily controlled with symptomatic treatment and/or infusion
modification. The efficacy benefit of Brineura treatment outweighs the risk of
severe hypersensitivity reactions.
Participant is pregnant 
• Reason for exclusion: The safety profile of cerliponase alfa had not yet been
established.
•
Is it considered to be included as missing information: Yes.
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 21
SIV.2:  Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial development 
programmes 
The clinical development programme is unlikely to detect certain types of adverse 
reactions such as rare adverse reactions, adverse reactions with a long latency, or those 
caused by prolonged or cumulative exposure. 
SIV.3:  Limitations in respect to populations typically under-represented in clinical 
trial development programmes 
Table SIV.1:  Exposure of special populations included or not in clinical trial 
development programmes  
Special Populations 
Persons 
Person-years 
Pregnant women 
Lactating women 
Renal impairment 
Hepatic impairment 
Cardiac impairment 
Immunocompromised 
Sub populations by genetic variant of tpp1 
• Two common alleles
• One common and one uncommon allele
• Two uncommon alleles
0 
0 
1 
0 
2 
3 
16 
13 
9 
0 
0 
5.5 
0 
11.3 
14.1 
67.3 
52.6 
39.4 
Renal impairment is defined as medical history terms that map to the Acute Renal Failure SMQ, Chronic Kidney Disease 
SMQ, Proteinuria SMQ, Renovascular Disorders SMQ, or Tubulointerstitial Diseases SMQ. 
Cardiac impairment is defined as medical history terms that map to the Cardiac Arrhythmias SMQ, Cardiac Failure 
SMQ, Cardiomyopathy SMQ, Ischaemic Heart Disease SMQ, or Torsade de Pointes/QT Prolongation SMQ. 
Hepatic impairment is defined as medical history terms that map to the Biliary Disorders SMQ or Hepatic Disorders 
SMQ. 
Immunocompromise is defined as medical history terms that map to the Agranulocytosis SMQ or Haematopoietic 
Cytopenias SMQ. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 22
Module SV:  Post-authorisation experience 
Brineura was approved for marketing in the United States on 27 April 2017 and in the 
European Union on 30 May 2017. 
SV.1:  Post-authorisation exposure 
Table SV.1:  Estimated Marketed Exposure Data 
PBRER# 
PBRER  
Reporting Period 
Number of 
Cartons Sold 
/ Distributed 
Global Marketed Exposure Data 
(Patients Estimated) 
Total # of 
Patients 
% Change from 
Prior Period 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
6a 
7 
8 
27 April 2017 to 26 October 2017 
27 October 2017 to 26 April 2018 
27 April 2018 to 26 October 2018 
299 
590 
844 
27 October 2018 to 26 April 2019 
1122 
27 April 2019 to 26 October 2019 
1624 
27 October 2019 to 26 April 2020 
2554 
27 April 2020 to 26 October 2020 
2733 
27 April 2020 to 26 April 2021 
27 April 2021 to 26 April 2022 
5925 
6770 
42 
70 
95 
113 
152 
204 
230 
260 
295 
N/A 
66.7 
35.7 
18.9 
34.5 
34.2 
12.7 
13.0 
12.6 
* Data extracted 03 May 2022.
Note: Due to General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), patient numbers were calculated based on quantity shipped 
and compliance rate (eg, a patient with 100% compliance uses the equivalent of 1 vial per week [two vials every two 
weeks]). 
SV1.1:  Method used to calculate exposure 
BioMarin International Ltd. tracks how many patients are receiving Brineura therapy and 
the source of the drug they received – commercial use, free drug use, or clinical trial use. 
Global patient exposure to Brineura were calculated based on quantity of drug shipped 
and compliance rate (eg, a patient with 100% compliance uses the equivalent of 1 vial per 
week [two vials every two weeks]). Participants who are enrolled in clinical trials but 
who transition to commercial drug once it becomes available are also tracked. 
SV2.2:  Exposure 
Post-marketing exposure information by age group and gender is not available. All 
patients receiving Brineura in the post-marketing setting have done so by ICV access 
device for the indication of CLN2 disease. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 23
Table SV.2:  Post-authorization exposure for CLN2 disease 
Region 
NA 
EMEA 
APAC 
LatAm 
Total # of Patients 
Total Cumulative Exposure 
78 
172 
10 
35 
295 
APAC = Asia-Pacific; EMEA = Europe, Middle East, and Africa; LatAm = Latin America; NA = North America 
Note: Data extracted 03 May 2022. 
Note: Due to patient privacy restrictions, sex and age group data were unavailable.  
Note: The number of patients represents patients on therapy. 
Note: Due to General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), patient numbers were calculated based on quantity shipped 
and compliance rate (eg, a patient with 100% compliance uses the equivalent of 1 vial per week [two vials every two 
weeks]). 
Module SVI:  Additional EU requirements for the safety specification 
Potential for misuse for illegal purposes 
Brineura has no known potential for misuse for illegal purposes. 
Module SVII:  Identified and potential risks  
Table SVII.1:  Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission 
Important identified risks 
Summary of safety concerns from the initial RMP (Version 1.4, 24 April 2017) 
• Hypersensitivity Reactions
• Device Issues: device
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Immunogenicity
infection/blockage/dislocation/degradation
• Convulsion related adverse drug reactions
•
• Cardiac events/bradycardia
• Hydrocephalus
• Meningitis
• Long Term Safety and Tolerability
• Use in Pregnancy and During Lactation
• Use in patients below 2 years of age
• Use in patients above 8 years of age
• Use in patients with advanced CLN2 disease
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 24
VII.1.1:  Risks not considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in
the RMP 
Reason for not including an identified or potential risk in the list of safety concerns in the 
RMP: 
These events listed below are either common conditions known to occur in the age group 
being treated, known risks of the underlying disorder, or require routine management 
and/or no additional risk minimization measures. They do not meet the criteria for 
categorizing them as important safety concerns as per guidelines. 
Risks with minimal clinical impact on patients (in relation to the severity of the indication 
treated): 
• Upper respiratory tract infection
• Conjunctivitis
Irritability
•
• Headache
• Abdominal pain
• Oral mucosal blistering
• Tongue blistering
• Gastrointestinal disorder
• Feeling jittery
• Pain
Adverse reactions with clinical consequences, even serious, but occurring with a low 
frequency and considered to be acceptable in relation to the severity of the indication 
treated: 
• None
Known risks that require no further characterization and are followed up via routine 
pharmacovigilance namely through signal detection and adverse reaction reporting, and 
for which the risk minimisation messages in the SmPC are adhered by prescribers (eg, 
actions being part of standard clinical practice in each EU Member state where the 
product is authorised): 
• CSF Pleocytosis
• Rash
• Urticaria
• Vomiting
• Pyrexia
• ECG abnormalities
• Needle issue
Known risks that do not impact the risk-benefit profile: 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 25
• CSF protein increased/decreased
• Dropped head syndrome
Other reasons for considering the risks not important: 
• Not applicable
SVII.1.2:  Risks considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in 
the RMP 
Important Identified Risk: Hypersensitivity Reactions (Including Anaphylactic 
Reactions) 
Risk-benefit impact: Exposure to cerliponase alfa, as with any exposure to a protein based 
medicinal product, may cause the body’s immune system to produce antibodies or other 
inflammatory response to exposure. Pre-treatment with antihistamines with or without 
antipyretics approximately 30-60 minutes prior to the start of the cerliponase alfa 
infusion, to minimise the potential occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions, is 
recommended. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported with Brineura. As a 
precautionary measure, appropriate medical support should be readily available when 
Brineura is administered. If anaphylactic reactions occur, immediately discontinue the 
infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment. Observe patients closely during and 
after the infusion. If anaphylaxis occurs, caution should be exercised upon re-
administration. 
By implementation of the risk minimization measures as per the SmPC, and following the 
Dosing and Administration guide provided to healthcare providers (HCPs) the risk is 
manageable. Overall, the risk is not expected to outweigh the benefit in the patient 
population. The individual patient risk-benefit balance should be made by the treating 
physician on a case-by-case basis.   
Important Identified Risk: Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/Dislocation) 
Risk-benefit impact: Device related AEs were experienced by subjects receiving 
cerliponase alfa via an implanted ICV reservoir. Most events resolve either spontaneously 
or with minimal medical intervention. Neurosurgical evaluation with subsequent ICV 
access device removal and/or replacement may be required. By implementation of the 
risk minimization measures as per the SmPC, and following the Dosing and 
Administration guide provided to HCPs the risk is manageable. 
Important Identified Risk: Convulsion-Related Adverse Drug Reactions 
Risk-benefit impact: Convulsions are a common manifestation of CLN2 disease and are 
expected to occur in this population. In clinical studies, convulsion AEs ranging from 
mild to severe (NCI CTCAE grade 1-4) have been observed. Most events resolve either 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 26
spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention (anticonvulsant medications). By 
implementation of the risk minimization measures as per the SmPC the risk is 
manageable. 
Important Potential Risk: Immunogenicity 
Risk-benefit impact: Development of anti-drug antibodies is a common occurrence in 
ERT therapy. Exposure to cerliponase alfa may cause the body’s immune system to 
produce antibodies, which interact with administered drug and can have a potential 
impact on safety or efficacy in treated patients. Anti-drug antibodies (ADA) to 
cerliponase alfa were detected in the serum and in the CSF of subjects in clinical studies. 
However, no correlation has been observed between immunogenicity study results and 
safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), or efficacy measures in the cerliponase alfa clinical 
studies.  
Important Potential Risk: Cardiac Events/Bradycardia 
Risk-benefit impact: Cardiac events were observed with cerliponase alfa. These included 
cardiac events such as bradycardia and vascular disorders such as hypotension. No 
correlation has been observed between cardiac events or bradycardia and safety or 
efficacy measures in the cerliponase alfa clinical studies. 
Important Potential Risk: Hydrocephalus 
Risk-benefit impact: Hydrocephalus is a known complication from ICV medicinal 
product administration. No events of hydrocephalus were reported during clinical studies 
with cerliponase alfa.    
Important Potential Risk: Meningitis 
Risk-benefit impact: Meningitis is known complication with the use of ICV access 
devices. Intracerebroventricular access device-related infections, including sub-clinical 
infections and meningitis, have been observed in patients treated with Brineura. 
Meningitis may present with the following symptoms: fever, headache, neck stiffness, 
light sensitivity, nausea, vomiting, and change in mental status. CSF samples should 
routinely be sent for testing to detect subclinical device infections. In clinical studies, 
antibiotics were administered, the ICV access device was replaced, and Brineura 
treatment was continued. By implementation of the risk minimization measures as per the 
SmPC, and following the Dosing and Administration guide provided to the HCPs the risk 
is manageable. 
Missing Information: Long Term Safety and Tolerability 
Risk-benefit impact: Due to the low prevalence of this genetic disease in the general 
population, the overall clinical trial sample is small and does not allow for an extensive 
assessment of rare adverse events. Safety and tolerability of the drug over long term 
usage needs to be determined.  
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 27
Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy and During Lactation 
Risk-benefit impact: Due to the low prevalence of this genetic disease in the general 
population, the overall clinical trial sample is small and does not allow for an extensive 
assessment of rare adverse events. Safety and tolerability of the drug during pregnancy 
and lactation usage needs to be determined. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients Below 2 Years of Age 
Risk-benefit impact: Due to the low prevalence of this genetic disease in the general 
population, the overall clinical trial sample is small and does not allow for an extensive 
assessment of rare adverse events. Safety and tolerability of the drug in children under  
2 years of age needs to be determined. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients Above 8 Years of Age 
Risk-benefit impact: Due to the low prevalence of this genetic disease in the general 
population, the overall clinical trial sample is small and does not allow for an extensive 
assessment of rare adverse events. Safety and tolerability of the drug in patients over 8 
years of age needs to be determined. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients with Advanced CLN2 Disease 
Risk-benefit impact: Due to the low prevalence of this genetic disease in the general 
population, the overall clinical trial sample is small and does not allow for an extensive 
assessment of rare adverse events. Safety and tolerability of the drug in patients with 
advanced disease needs to be determined. 
SVII.2:  New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an updated 
RMP 
Removal of Immunogenicity as an Important Potential Risk: 
Immunogenicity that was previously classified as an important potential risk has been 
removed from the list of safety concerns. 
Rationale for removal from the list of safety concerns: 
Immunogenicity was evaluated in 190-201/202 and 190-203 studies. Immunogenicity 
testing was performed using validated immunogenicity assays on serum and CSF 
samples. Routine immunogenicity tests included total antibody (TAb) in the serum and 
CSF and neutralizing antibody (NAb) in the CSF. NAb testing was not performed if the 
CSF TAb was negative. 
190-202 Key Immunogenicity Findings: The immunogenicity strategy for the study 
included characterizing the anti-drug antibody (ADA) response and assessing the impact 
of ADA on safety, exposure and efficacy. Anti-drug antibodies were detected in the 
serum in 79% (19/24) and in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 42% (10/24) participants. 
Serum TAb titers were either sustained (12/19, 63%) declined (5/19, 26%), or reverted to 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 28
undetectable (2/19, 11%) in participants that developed antibodies by end of study. There 
was no association found between serum ADA titer and incidence or severity of 
hypersensitivity AEs (HAEs). There was no drug-specific IgE positivity detected in 
participants who experienced Grade 3 hypersensitivity AEs. There was no association 
found between serum or CSF TAb titers and treatment outcome. The development of an 
ADA response to cerliponase alfa in the serum or CSF was not correlated with or 
predictive of any clinical signals impacting either safety or efficacy outcomes.  
190-203 Key Immunogenicity Findings: The immunogenicity strategy for the study
included characterizing the ADA response and assessing the impact of ADA on safety, 
exposure and efficacy. Incidence of ADA in serum was 100% (14/14) of participants; 
earliest time to onset was week 13 after treatment initiation. 36% (5/14) of participants 
had declining or transient TAb responses while 64% (9/14) of participants had sustained 
TAb titers. No drug-specific IgE positivity was detected in the 2 participants that 
experienced Grade 3 HAE or anaphylaxis. Participants with higher mean serum TAb 
titers reported hypersensitivity AEs of similar incidence and severity as participants with 
lower mean serum TAb titers. Additionally, participants not reporting hypersensitivity 
AEs also had detectable serum TAb titers. Overall, the immunogenicity profile of 
cerliponase alfa in this younger pediatric population was consistent with and supportive 
of the positive benefit-risk profile assessed in the older pediatric population in 190-
201/202. 
Current data indicate that the utility of ADA results in influencing clinical decision-
making with regards to patient treatment options is minimal. The assays were only 
available as part of the BMN 190 clinical development programme and are not available 
in the commercial treatment setting.  
The risk for immunogenicity is noted in the EU SmPC in Section 4.8 “Undesirable 
effects”. No updates to the SmPC are currently warranted.  
SVII.3:  Details of important identified and potential risks from clinical development 
and post-authorisation experience (including newly identified) 
SVII.3.1:  Presentation of important identified risks and important potential risks 
Important Identified Risk: Hypersensitivity Reactions (Including Anaphylactic 
Reactions) 
MedDRA terms: Standardized MedDRA queries (SMQ): Broad algorithmic Anaphylactic 
reaction and broad Hypersensitivity  
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 29
Potential mechanism: As with any exposure to a protein based medicinal product, severe 
allergic type reactions are possible. Exposure to cerliponase alfa may cause the body’s 
immune system to produce antibodies or other inflammatory response to cerliponase alfa. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Hypersensitivity reactions are not 
unanticipated with any exposure to a protein-based medicinal product. Hypersensitivity 
reactions have been reported in patients exposed to cerliponase alfa in clinical studies 
(190-201/202, and 190-203). Most of the events were observed during or within 24 hours 
after completion of infusion suggesting that these reactions are likely related to the 
cerliponase alfa treatment. Cumulatively, there have been 3 reports of anaphylactic 
reactions. One report was received from a clinical trial and 2 reports were received from 
post-marketing sources.  
Characterization of the risk: Hypersensitivity AEs (HAEs) were expected to occur with 
cerliponase alfa, as with any biologic agent. Potential hypersensitivity AEs were 
identified by utilizing the broad algorithmic Anaphylactic reaction SMQ and the broad 
Hypersensitivity SMQ. 
In 190-201/202 studies, a total of 56 hypersensitivity events were reported in 18 
participants (75%). The hypersensitivity events reported more than once were 
hypersensitivity (16 events in 10 participants), rash (9 events in 3 participants), 
conjunctivitis (7 events in 6 participants), dermatitis contact (6 events in 5 participants), 
seasonal allergy (4 events in 3 participants), choking (2 events in 2 participants) and 
urticaria (2 events in 2 participants). No other hypersensitivity event was reported more 
than once. Out of 56 hypersensitivity events, 22 hypersensitivity events were assessed as 
related to cerliponase alfa by investigator. Related hypersensitivity events include 16 
events of hypersensitivity PTs in 10 participants, 3 events of rash in 2 participants, 
1 event of conjunctivitis in 1 participant, 1 event of face oedema in 1 participant, and 1 
event of urticaria in 1 participant. Most hypersensitivity events were mild to moderate in 
severity (CTCAE Grade 1 or 2) in 190-201/202 studies. There were no events of 
anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions in studies 190-201/202. 
In 190-203 study, a total of 36 hypersensitivity events were reported in 10 (71.4 %) 
participants. Hypersensitivity events reported in more than 1 participant included 
hypersensitivity (20 events in 4 participants), rash (4 events in 3 participants), and 
stomatitis (2 events in 2 participants). Cerliponase alfa was interrupted in response to 1 
event of Grade 3 anaphylactic reaction. Upon further medical review, it was identified 
that out of 36 events, 21 events which were assessed as related to cerliponase alfa are the 
hypersensitivity reactions to study drug. The other not related hypersensitivity events had 
alternative etiological factors. Out of these 21 hypersensitivity reactions, 20 events were 
hypersensitivity (PT) and 1 event was anaphylactic reaction. Two participants 
experienced a Grade 3 AE, including 1 event of hypersensitivity and 1 event of 
anaphylactic reaction. Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 5 of 8 (63%) 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 30
participants < 3 years of age as compared with no incidences in participants ≥ 3 years of 
age. Out of 21 related hypersensitivity events, AE onset age for 16 events was less than 3 
years and AE onset age for 5 events was more than 3 years. The AE onset age of both the 
Grade 3 events was less than 3 years (AE onset age of Grade 3 hypersensitivity event was 
2.6 years and AE onset age of Grade 3 anaphylactic reaction was 1.1 years). 
Cumulatively out of 38 participants in clinical trials, hypersensitivity reactions were 
reported in 5 of 8 (63%) participants less than 3 years of age compared with 14 of 30 
(47%) in participants ≥3 years of age. 
Hypersensitivity reactions, particularly in patients less than 3 years of age in whom 
Brineura treatment is initiated, will be further evaluated in the Post-Authorization Safety 
Study (PASS) (190-504: CLN2 Post-Approval Observational Study). 
For reports of hypersensitivity, the most commonly reported symptoms were pyrexia, 
vomiting, pleocytosis, or irritability, which are not consistent with classic immune 
mediated hypersensitivity and are not listed in the broad hypersensitivity SMQ. These 
events were observed during or within 24 hours after completion of the Brineura infusion 
and did not interfere with treatment.  
A query for HAEs (consisting of the broad MedDRA hypersensitivity SMQ and broad 
algorithmic anaphylactic reactions SMQ) was run to identify HAEs received in the post-
marketing setting. Based on this search, cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 48 reports of 
HAEs (including 65 total events) have been received from post-marketing sources, 
including 20 serious HAEs.  
Cumulatively, there have been 3 reports of anaphylactic reactions. One report was 
received from a clinical trial and 2 reports were received from post-marketing sources. 
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: 
Pre-treatment with antihistamines with or without antipyretics approximately 30- 60 
minutes prior to the start of the cerliponase alfa infusion, to minimise the potential 
occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions, is recommended. 
In case of a mild or moderate hypersensitivity reaction, treatment with antihistamines and 
paracetamol and/or a reduction in the infusion rate to half the rate at which the reaction 
occurred should be considered. 
In case of a single severe hypersensitivity reaction, the infusion should be stopped until 
the symptoms are resolved and treatment with antihistamines and acetaminophen should 
be considered. The infusion can be restarted with a reduction of the infusion rate to 50%–
25% of the rate at which the reaction occurred. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 31
In case of a recurrent moderate hypersensitivity reaction or re-challenge after a single 
severe hypersensitivity reaction, pre-treatment should be considered (antihistamines and 
acetaminophen and/or corticosteroids) and a reduction of the infusion rate to 50%–25% of 
the rate at which the previous reaction occurred. 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Exposure to cerliponase alfa, as with 
any exposure to a protein based medicinal product, may cause body’s immune system to 
produce antibodies or other inflammatory response to exposure. Pre-treatment with 
antihistamines with or without antipyretics approximately 30-60 minutes prior to the start 
of the cerliponase alfa infusion, to minimise the potential occurrence of hypersensitivity 
reactions, is recommended. By implementation of the risk minimization measures as per 
the SmPC and following the Dosing and Administration guide provided to HCPs the risk 
is manageable. Overall, the risk is not expected to outweigh the benefit in the patient 
population. The individual patient risk-benefit balance should be made by the treating 
physician on a case-by-case basis.  
Public health impact: Very low. 
Important Identified Risk: Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/Dislocation/ 
Degradation) 
MedDRA terms: Any PT within the HLGT of Device Issues 
Potential mechanism: As with any implanted medical device, failure of the device, 
infection due to translocation of pathogen, occlusion or mispositioning, may occur. 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Cerliponase alfa should be administered 
intraventricularly via an implanted ICV reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, 
issues with the ICV device such as infection, blockage, and dislocation etc. are known to 
occur. Device issues, including infection, have been observed in patients exposed to 
cerliponase alfa in clinical studies.  
Characterization of the risk: Device-related AEs were experienced by participants 
receiving cerliponase alfa via an implanted ICV reservoir.  
In 190-201/202 studies, 20 participants (83%) experienced a total of 72 AEs assessed as 
device related. Device-related AEs that occurred in more than 1 participant were device-
related infection (13 events in 8 participants), device end of service (12 events in 12 
participants), device leakage (9 events in 3 participants), device malfunction (8 events in 
3 participants), needle issue (6 events in 5 participants), pleocytosis (4 events in 4 
participants), device difficult to use (4 events in 2 participants), and device deployment 
issue (2 events in 2 participants). No other device-related AE was reported more than 
once in 190-201/202. Of the 72 device-related AEs, twelve device-related AEs were 
reported with CTCAE grade 3 in 6 participants. No event of device-related AEs with 
Grade 4 severity was reported in 190-201/202. A total of 14 device-related AEs in 7 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 32
participants led to ICV device replacement, including device related infection (8 events in 
6 participants), device leakage (2 events in 2 participants), device deployment issue (2 
events in 2 participants), device malfunction (1 event in 1 participant) and 
Propionibacterium infection (1 event in 1 participant). All the ICV devices were 
successfully replaced without complication and without discontinuation of study drug.  
In 190-203 study, 5 participants experienced 8 device-related AEs. The most common 
device-related event was device leakage (4 events in 3 participants). In addition, there 
was 1 event each of propionibacterium test positive, device breakage, headache, and 
medical device site irritation. Three participants experienced 3 SAEs including one Grade 
3 SAE of Propionibacterium test positive, one Grade 2 SAE of device leakage (described 
as leak of CSF from ICV device), and one Grade 2 SAE of medical device site irritation. 
There was no substantial difference in the incidence and severity of device-related AEs 
between age subgroups (< 2, < 3, ≥ 3 years). There were no ICV malfunctions or AEs 
leading to the removal and return of an ICV device.  
From post-marketing sources, cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 66 events have been 
reported from 62 reports involving device issues from post-marketing sources (device 
leakage [23 events], needle issue [10 events], device occlusion [9 events], device issue [7 
events], device malfunction [6 events], device breakage [3 events], device dislocation [3 
events], device end of service [2 events], device infusion issue [1 event], device failure [1 
event], and device kink [1 event]). In addition, 74 events of device-related infections have 
been reported from the post-marketing setting.  
Material degradation of the ICV access device reservoir occurs after long periods of use 
according to preliminary results of benchtop testing and as observed in clinical trials with 
approximately 4 years of use. In two clinical cases, the ICV access devices did not show 
signs of failure at the time of infusion; however, after removal, material degradation of 
the devices was apparent and consistent with data from benchtop testing of ICV access 
devices. The access devices were replaced and patients resumed treatment with Brineura. 
Access device replacement should be considered prior to 4 years of regular administration 
of Brineura, however it must always be ensured, that the ICV access device is used in 
accordance with the provisions of the respective medical device manufacturer.  
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: Cerliponase alfa must be administered using aseptic technique to reduce 
the risk of infection. Healthcare professionals should inspect the scalp for skin integrity to 
ensure the ICV access device is not compromised prior to each infusion. A patency check 
should be performed to detect ICV access device leakage and/or failure prior to initiation 
of Brineura. 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Device related AEs were experienced 
by participants receiving cerliponase alfa via an implanted ICV reservoir. Most AEs 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 33
resolve either spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention. Neurosurgical 
evaluation with subsequent ICV access device removal and/or replacement may be 
required. By implementation of the risk minimization measures as per the SmPC and 
following the Dosing and Administration guide provided to the HCPs the risk is 
manageable. 
Public health impact: Very low 
Important Identified Risk: Convulsion Related Adverse Drug Reactions 
MedDRA terms: Standardized MedDRA queries (SMQ): Convulsions; searches for 
events of status epilepticus include the MedDRA PTs of status epilepticus and petit mal 
epilepsy 
Potential mechanism: Unknown 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Convulsions are a common manifestation of 
CLN2 disease and are expected to occur in this population. Convulsions were reported in 
31 (81.5 %) of 38 patients exposed to cerliponase alfa in clinical studies (190-201/202 
and 190-203). The majority (>90%) of these events were mild to moderate, and 4% were 
considered related to cerliponase alfa. 
Characterization of the risk: A total of 31 (81.5 %) of 38 participants who received 
cerliponase alfa experienced an AE that mapped to the Convulsions SMQ in clinical 
studies (190-201/202 and 190-203).  
In 190-201/202 studies, 23 (96%) participants experienced 693 AEs that map to the 
Convulsions Standardized MedDRA Query. Twenty participants (83%) had convulsion 
AEs that were Grade 1 or 2 in severity, and 12 participants experienced 27 convulsion 
events considered related to study drug. One participant (4%) experienced a Grade 3 
event of seizure and status epilepticus, and 1 participant (4%) experienced a Grade 4 
event of status epilepticus. Six participants (25%) experienced 7 convulsion AEs that 
occurred after ICV implantation but before first dose of cerliponase alfa. Sixteen 
participants (67%) experienced 90 convulsion AEs that occurred within 24 hours of the 
start of cerliponase alfa infusion. 
In 190-203 study, one participant experienced a single Grade 3 SAE of status epilepticus 
assessed by the investigator as not related to cerliponase alfa. No change in cerliponase 
alfa dosing was made in response to this event. Eight participants (57.1%) reported 74 
AEs that mapped to the Convulsions Standardized MedDRA Query. The most common 
convulsion AEs included partial seizures (28 events in 3 participants), generalized tonic-
clonic seizure (18 events in 6 participants), and seizure (8 events in 3 participants). All 
convulsion AEs were Grade 1 or 2 in severity, with the exception of the Grade 3 event of 
status epilepticus. All convulsion events were assessed by the investigator as not related 
to cerliponase alfa. There was no substantial difference in the incidence and severity of 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 34
convulsion AEs between age subgroups (< 2, < 3, ≥ 3 years). Most convulsion AEs 
occurred in symptomatic participants [motor-language (ML) < 6 points at baseline]; 5 of 
7 symptomatic participants experienced 64 [87%] of the total convulsion AEs.  
Most AEs resolve either spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention 
(anticonvulsant medications). Given that seizures are a common manifestation in patients 
with CLN2 disease, the overall number of events is not surprising. Overall, few of the 
convulsion AEs were considered related to study drug or occurred within 24 hours of a 
dose, suggesting no worsening effect of BMN 190 via ICV delivery on this common 
disease manifestation.  
From post-marketing sources, cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 125 convulsion-related 
events (in 116 reports) have been reported (94 events of seizure, 7 events of status 
epilepticus, 5 events of generalised tonic-clonic seizure, 4 events of partial seizures, 4 
events of epilepsy, 2 events of myoclonic epilepsy, 2 events of petit mal epilepsy, and 1 
event each of tonic posturing, automatism epileptic, gelastic seizure, clonic convulsion, 
febrile convulsion, déjà vu, and infantile spasms).  
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: Clinical monitoring and medical intervention as needed 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Convulsions are a common 
manifestation of CLN2 disease and are expected to occur in this population. In clinical 
studies, convulsion AEs ranging from mild to severe (NCI CTCAE grade 1-4) have been 
observed. Most events resolve either spontaneously or with minimal medical intervention 
(anticonvulsant medications). By implementation of the risk minimization measures as 
per the SmPC the risk is manageable. 
Public health impact: Very low 
Important Identified Risk: Meningitis 
MedDRA terms:  
•
Central Nervous System Infection
• Meningitis histoplasma
• Meningitis
• Meningitis aseptic
• Meningitis aspergillus
• Meningitis bacterial
• Meningitis borrelia
• Meningitis candida
• Meningitis chemical
• Meningitis coccidioides
• Meningitis leptospiral
• Meningitis listeria
• Meningitis meningococcal
• Meningitis mumps
• Meningitis neonatal
• Meningitis noninfective
• Meningitis pneumococcal
• Meningitis salmonella
• Meningitis coxsackie viral
• Meningitis staphylococcal
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 35
• Meningitis streptococcal
• Meningitis toxoplasmal
• Meningitis trypanosomal
• Meningitis tuberculous
• Meningitis viral
• Herpes zoster meningitis
• Herpes simplex meningitis
•
•
•
Pachymeningitis
Propionibacterium infection
Pseudomonas aeruginosa meningitis
• Meningitis cronobacter
• Meningitis cryptococcal
• Meningitis echo viral
• Meningitis enterococcal
• Meningitis enteroviral
• Meningitis eosinophilic
• Meningitis exserohilum
• Meningitis fungal
• Meningitis gonococcal
• Meningitis haemophilus
• Meningitis herpes
Potential mechanism: Unknown 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Cerliponase alfa should be administered 
intraventricularly via an implanted ICV reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, there 
is a potential for inflammation of the meninges due to infectious agents. ICV access 
device-related infections, including sub-clinical infections and meningitis, have been 
observed in patients treated with Brineura. Meningitis may present with the following 
symptoms: fever, headache, neck stiffness, light sensitivity, nausea, vomiting, and change 
in mental status. CSF samples should routinely be sent for testing to detect subclinical 
device infections. In clinical studies, antibiotics were administered, the ICV access device 
was replaced, and Brineura treatment was continued. 
Characterization of the risk: Meningitis may range from mild and asymptomatic to 
severe; antimicrobial therapy and neurosurgical evaluation with subsequent ICV access 
device removal and/or replacement may be required. No events of meningitis were 
reported during clinical trials with Brineura. A query was performed using a pre-specified 
list of MedDRA preferred terms to identify reports from post marketing sources (refer to 
MedDRA terms described above). Cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 34 events of 
meningitis have been reported in the post-marketing setting (16 events of central nervous 
system infection, 8 events of meningitis, 4 events of Propionibacterium infection, 3 
events of meningitis bacterial, 2 events of meningitis eosinophilic, and 1 event of 
meningitis staphylococcal).   
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: Clinical monitoring and medical intervention as indicated. Neurosurgical 
evaluation and intervention may be required. Cerliponase alfa must be administered using 
aseptic technique to reduce the risk of infection. Healthcare professionals should inspect 
the scalp for skin integrity to ensure the ICV access device is not compromised prior to 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 36
each infusion. A patency check should be performed to detect ICV access device leakage 
and /or failure prior to initiation of Cerliponase alfa. 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Meningitis is a known complication 
with the use of ICV access devices. ICV access device-related infections, including sub-
clinical infections and meningitis, have been observed in patients treated with Brineura. 
In clinical studies, antibiotics were administered, the ICV access device was replaced, and 
Brineura treatment was continued. By implementation of the risk minimization measures 
as per the SmPC and following the Dosing and Administration guide provided to HCPs, 
the risk is manageable. 
Public health impact: Very low 
Important Potential Risk: Cardiac Events/Bradycardia 
MedDRA terms: Any PT within the SOC of vascular disorder, SOC of cardiac disorder, 
HLT of ECG investigations or HLGT of cardiac and vascular investigations  
Potential mechanism: Unknown 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Cardiac events were observed with 
cerliponase alfa during clinical studies (190-201/202 and 190-203). These included 
cardiac events such as bradycardia and vascular disorders such as hypotension. No 
correlation has been observed between cardiac events or bradycardia and safety or 
efficacy measures in the cerliponase alfa clinical studies. Hence these events were 
considered as a potential risk for cerliponase alfa. 
Characterization of the risk: 
In 190-201/202 studies, seven participants (29%) experienced 15 cardiovascular and ECG 
AEs. All events were non-serious and Grade 1 or 2 in severity and did not require 
changes in cerliponase alfa dosing. The most common events were bradycardia (4 events 
in 2 participants), hypotension (3 events in 3 participants), and hematoma (2 events in 2 
participants). Additional single events of cardiovascular disorder, sinus bradycardia, 
tachycardia, blood pressure diastolic decreased, and cardiac murmur were reported in 1 
participant each. There was one ECG abnormality (T wave inversion) which was Grade 1 
in severity and assessed as not related to cerliponase alfa.  
In 190-203 study, three participants experienced 4 cardiovascular AEs, including 
hematoma in 1 participant, atrioventricular block in 1 participant, and hypertension and 
electrocardiogram abnormal in 1 participant. All events were assessed by the investigator 
as non-serious and Grade 1 in severity. The event of atrioventricular block was later 
upgraded by BioMarin to serious based on medical significance and conservatively 
assessed as possibly related to BMN 190 due to the absence of alternative aetiological 
factors and the strong temporal relationship. Additionally, a single event of Grade 1 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 37
congenital cardiac malformation was identified; this event was assessed as non-serious 
and not related to study drug or ICV device.  
In the post-marketing setting, cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 52 events from 39 reports 
were identified. Further medical review revealed that 32 events were non-cardiac events 
secondary to other concurrent non-cardiac events. Twenty (20) events from 19 reports 
were found to be cardiac events (4 events of tachycardia, 3 events of bradycardia, 2 
events of cardiac arrest, 2 events of angina pectoris, 2 events of hypertension, 2 events of 
heart rate increased, and 1 each event of arteriosclerosis, ventricular enlargement, 
cardiopulmonary failure, syncope, and ventricular hypertrophy). 
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: Clinical monitoring and medical intervention as indicated. 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Cardiac events were observed with 
cerliponase alfa. These included cardiac events such as bradycardia and vascular 
disorders such as hypotension. No correlation has been observed between cardiac events 
or bradycardia and safety or efficacy measures in the cerliponase alfa clinical studies. 
Public health impact: Very low 
Important Potential Risk: Hydrocephalus 
MedDRA terms: Preferred Terms: Congenital hydrocephalus and Hydrocephalus 
Potential mechanism: Unknown 
Evidence source(s) and strength of evidence: Cerliponase alfa should be administered 
intraventricularly via an implanted ICV reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, there 
is a potential for development of hydrocephalus (communicating or non-communicating) 
due to the ICV device. No events of hydrocephalus were reported in clinical studies (190-
201/202 and 190-203). 
Characterization of the risk: No events of hydrocephalus have been reported during 
clinical trials with Brineura. Cumulatively as of 26 April 2022, 2 events of hydrocephalus 
have been reported in the post-marketing setting. 
Risk factors and risk groups: None identified 
Preventability: Clinical monitoring and medical intervention as indicated. Neurosurgical 
evaluation and intervention may be required. 
Impact on the risk-benefit balance of the product: Hydrocephalus is a known 
complication from ICV medicinal product administration. No events of hydrocephalus 
have been reported during clinical studies with cerliponase alfa. 
Public health impact: Very low 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 38
SVII.3.2:  Presentation of missing information  
Missing Information: Long Term Safety and Tolerability 
MedDRA terms: None 
Evidence Source: The safety profile is not expected to be different than in the target 
population. 
Anticipated risk/consequence of the missing information: A lack of long-term safety and 
tolerability data could affect the ability to detect adverse reactions which are rare, which 
are due to prolonged exposure, which are due to cumulative effects of cerliponase alfa 
use, or which have a long latency period. Data will be collected from long-term use in, 
post-marketing reports, and the Post-Authorization Safety Study (PASS) (190-504: CLN2 
Post-Approval Observational Study). 
Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy and During Lactation 
MedDRA terms: Congenital, familial and genetic disorders (SMQ), Pregnancy, labour 
and delivery complications and risk factors (excl abortions and stillbirth) (SMQ), 
Functional lactation disorders (SMQ), Neonatal exposures via breast milk (SMQ), Foetal 
disorders (SMQ), Neonatal disorders (SMQ), Termination of pregnancy and risk of 
abortion (SMQ), Normal pregnancy conditions and outcomes (SMQ) 
Evidence Source: Due to the predominant pediatric presentation of the disease, the safety 
profile in pregnant and/or lactating patients is unknown. 
Population in need of further characterization: There have been no patients who have 
received cerliponase alfa and have become pregnant or engaged in breastfeeding. Section 
4.6 of the SmPC states that there are no data with cerliponase alfa use in pregnant women 
to inform on drug-associated risk. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted 
using cerliponase alfa. It is not known whether cerliponase alfa can cause fetal harm 
when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Cerliponase 
alfa should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed. Section 4.6 of the SmPC 
also states that there are no data on the presence of cerliponase alfa in human milk, the 
effects of cerliponase alfa on the breastfed child, or the effects of cerliponase alfa on milk 
production, and states that breastfeeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
Brineura. It is not known whether patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding would 
respond differently to cerliponase alfa therapy than other participants. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients Below 2 Years of Age 
MedDRA terms: None 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 39
Evidence Source: The safety profile is not expected to be different than in the target 
population. 
Population in need of further characterization: In 190-203 study, 5 (35.7 %) of 14 
participants exposed to study drug were below 2 years of age (baseline age). Safety and 
efficacy were evaluated for these 5 subjects in 190-203 study. Study 190-504 
(Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study) is ongoing and the primary objective of this study 
is to evaluate the long-term safety of cerliponase alfa. MAH is expecting to receive more 
data for patients below 2 years of age from 190-504 study. The SmPC (Section 4.2) 
provides a recommended dosing strategy for patients under the age of 2, based on the age 
of the patient at the time of treatment. 
Missing Information: Use in Patients Above 8 Years of Age 
MedDRA terms: None 
Evidence Source: The safety profile is not expected to be different than in the target 
population. 
Population in need of further characterization: The SmPC (Section 4.2) states that there is 
limited data with cerliponase alfa use in patients older than 8 years of age. Safety data on 
patients in this age group is to be collected from post-marketing use and from the PASS 
(190-504: CLN2 Post-Approval Observational Study). 
Missing Information: Use in Patients with Advanced CLN2 Disease 
MedDRA terms: None 
Evidence Source: The safety profile is not expected to be different than in the target 
population. 
Population in need of further characterization: There are limited data in patients with 
advanced disease progression at treatment initiation (defined as a motor-language score of 
0 on the CLN2 rating scale) who were included in clinical trials (stated in Section 4.4 of 
the SmPC). Safety data on patients with advanced CLN2 disease is to be collected from 
post-marketing use and from the PASS (190-504: CLN2 Post-Approval Observational 
Study). 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 40
Module SVIII:  Summary of the safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Hypersensitivity Reactions (Including Anaphylactic 
Reactions) 
Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/ 
Dislocation/Degradation) 
Convulsion-Related Adverse Drug Reactions 
Meningitis 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac Events/Bradycardia 
Hydrocephalus 
Important missing 
information 
Long Term Safety and Tolerability 
Use in Pregnancy and During Lactation 
Use in Patients Below 2 Years of Age 
Use in Patients Above 8 Years of Age 
Use in Patients with Advanced CLN2 Disease 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 41
PART III:  PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN (INCLUDING POST-
AUTHORISATION STUDIES)  
III.1:  Routine pharmacovigilance activities
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for Hypersensitivity Reactions 
(Including Anaphylactic Reactions): 
A questionnaire will be used to collect information on the infusion-associated AEs. This 
form requests the HCP to provide more details on the relevant medical history, 
concomitant medications, drug exposure history of the patient, signs and symptoms of the 
infusion associated reaction by organ system, clinical course, vital signs, laboratory tests, 
treatment, and re-introduction information. 
A copy of this form is provided in Annex 4. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for Device Issues (Device 
Infection/Blockage/Dislocation/Degradation): 
A questionnaire will be used to collect information on device-related AEs. This form 
requests the HCP to provide more details on the actual device associated with the AE, 
including the type, manufacturer name and model, date of implantation and removal of 
the device, along with the details of the adverse reaction observed in the patient.  
A copy of this form is provided in Annex 4. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for Use in Pregnancy and During 
Lactation: 
A questionnaire will be used to collect information on pregnancy and lactation. This form 
requests the HCP to provide more details on pregnancy history, contraception use, date of 
last menstrual period, estimated/actual date of delivery, pregnancy complications, 
pregnancy outcome (including type of delivery, infant outcome, Apgar score, and other 
relevant details), and drug exposure prior to and/or during pregnancy.  
A copy of this form is provided in Annex 4. 
III.2:  Additional pharmacovigilance activities
Study 190-504 (EU): Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study
Study short name and title: 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
Rationale and study objectives:  
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 42
The primary objective of this non-interventional post-authorization safety study (PASS) 
study is to evaluate the long-term safety of cerliponase alfa in patients with neuronal 
ceroid lipofuscinosis Type 2 (CLN2 disease). 
The secondary objectives of this study include the following: 
• To further assess the occurrence of serious hypersensitivity reactions (including
anaphylactic reactions), serious cardiovascular adverse events, and serious device-
related complications
• To evaluate the effects of Grade III serious adverse events (SAEs) on patient
performance on the CLN2 Clinical Rating Scale (Motor and Language domains)
Study design: 
Investigators are encouraged to follow the Recommended Schedule of Events, which 
includes assessments to monitor the long-term safety of CLN2 patients who are currently 
being treated, or who plan to be treated with cerliponase alfa within 60 days of signing 
the ICF/PIAF. Data may be collected for all or some of the assessments dependent upon 
the individual’s standard of care. Patients that permanently stop receiving cerliponase alfa 
will be withdrawn from the study 30 days after the last cerliponase alfa infusion. 
Study population: 
Patients who are currently being treated, or who plan to be treated with cerliponase alfa 
within 60 days of signing the ICF are eligible to participate in the study. Patients who 
permanently discontinue cerliponase alfa will no longer be eligible to participate and will 
be withdrawn from the study.    
Milestones: 
• Protocol submission: 21 June 2017
The original protocol was submitted and agreed with the EMA via a closing sequence on 
21 June 2017. However, following internal discussions the protocol has been revised. 
Feedback was received by the PRAC on 19 June 2018 (EMEA-H-C-PSP-S-0063) with a 
request for further changes. BioMarin amended the protocol to address the PRAC specific 
concerns and submitted the revised protocol for PRAC assessment on 20 August 2018. 
PRAC feedback was received in October 2018 requesting to further justify the changes to 
the protocol. Although no further changes were made to the protocol, BioMarin has 
submitted responses to PRAC. The revised protocol was approved on 19 March 
2019.Interim reports: To be provided annually to EMA 
• Final report: 2030 (anticipated)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 43
III.3:  Summary Table of Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities
Table III.1:  On-going and Planned Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities
Study 
Status 
Summary of objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestones 
Due dates 
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of the 
marketing authorisation 
None 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific Obligations in 
the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances  
190-504 (EU)
(PASS)
Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational 
Study (Study 
Status: Ongoing) 
Additional data 
collected will help 
broaden knowledge 
of identified and 
potential risks of 
cerliponase alfa, as 
well as provide new 
information on long-
term safety. 
June 2017 
Original 
protocol 
submission 
Revised 
protocol 
submission: 
August 
2018 
Revised 
protocol 
approval: 
19 March 
2019 
Interim 
Reports 
Annually 
Final CSR 
(anticipated) 
2030 
The primary objective of this 
study is to evaluate the long-
term safety of cerliponase alfa 
in patients with neuronal 
ceroid lipofuscinosis Type 2 
(CLN2 disease). 
The secondary objectives of 
this study include the 
following:  
• To further assess the
occurrence of serious
hypersensitivity reactions
(including anaphylactic
reactions), serious
cardiovascular adverse
events, and serious device-
related complications
• To evaluate the effects of
Grade III serious adverse
events (SAEs) on patient
performance on the CLN2
Clinical Rating Scale
(Motor and Language
domains)
Category 3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 44
PART IV:  PLANS FOR POST-AUTHORISATION EFFICACY STUDIES 
Table IV.1:  Planned and On-going Post-Authorisation Efficacy Studies that are 
Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation or that are Specific Obligations  
Study 
Status 
Summary of 
objectives 
Efficacy uncertainties 
addressed 
Milestones  Due dates 
Efficacy studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
None 
Efficacy studies which are Specific Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing 
authorisation or a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
None 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 45
PART V:  RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES 
Risk Minimisation Plan 
V.1:  Routine Risk Minimisation Measures
Table V.1:  Description of Routine Risk Minimisation Measures by Safety Concern 
Safety Concern 
Hypersensitivity 
Reactions (Including 
Anaphylactic 
Reactions) 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
Package leaflet (PL): Section 2, Section 4. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
Recommendation for pre-treatment of patients with antihistamines with or without 
antipyretics 30 to 60 minutes prior to the start of the infusion is included in SmPC 
Section 4.2. 
SmPC Section 4.2 states that if an infusion is interrupted due to a hypersensitivity 
reaction, it should be restarted at approximately one-half the initial infusion rate at 
which the hypersensitivity reaction occurred. 
Caution on the risk of anaphylaxis and possible symptoms of anaphylaxis are 
provided to the health care professionals in the Section 4.4 of SmPC and PL 
Section 2. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Device Issues 
(Device Infection / 
Blockage / 
Dislocation / 
Degradation) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
SmPC Section 4.2 provides specific instructions on the proper administration of 
the drug, including: 
•
•
•
Caution that aseptic technique must be strictly observed during
preparation and administration.
Following Brineura infusion, a calculated amount of flushing solution
must be used to flush the infusion components, including the ICV access
device, in order to fully administer Brineura and to maintain patency of
the ICV access device.
Periodically inspect the infusion system during the infusion for signs of
leakage or delivery failure
SmPC Section 4.3 states that Brineura must not be administered as long as there 
are signs of acute ICV access device leakage, device failure, or device-related 
infection. 
  
Safety Concern 
Convulsion-Related 
Adverse Drug 
Reactions 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 46
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
SmPC Section 4.4 states that healthcare professionals should inspect the scalp for 
skin integrity to ensure the intracerebroventricular access device is not 
compromised prior to each infusion. Inspection of the infusion site and a patency 
check must be performed to detect intracerebroventricular access device leakage 
and/or failure prior to initiation of Brineura infusion. Consultation with a 
neurosurgeon may be needed to confirm the integrity of the device. Brineura 
treatment should be interrupted in cases of device failure and may require 
replacement of the access device prior to subsequent infusions. 
CSF samples should routinely be sent for testing to detect subclinical device 
infections (SmPC Section 4.4, PL Section 2) 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.8 
PL: Section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Meningitis 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
Brineura must be administered using aseptic technique to reduce the risk of 
infection (SmPC Section 4.2 and Section 4.4) and CSF samples should routinely 
be sent for testing to detect subclinical device infections (SmPC Section 4.4, PL 
Section 2) 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Cardiac Events/ 
Bradycardia 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 4. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 47
Safety Concern 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
SmPC Section 4.4 advises that electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring during 
infusion should be performed in patients with a history of bradycardia, conduction 
disorder, or with structural heart disease, as some patients with CLN2 disease may 
develop conduction disorders or heart disease. In cardiac normal patients, regular 
12-lead ECG evaluations should be performed every 6 months.
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Hydrocephalus 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Long Term Safety 
and Tolerability 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.8 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Use in Pregnancy and 
During Lactation 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.6 
PL: Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
SmPC Section 4.6 states that breastfeeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with Brineura. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 48
Safety Concern 
Routine Risk Minimisation Activities 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Use in Patients 
Below 2 Years of 
Age 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.2 
PL: Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Use in Patients 
Above 8 Years of 
Age 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Use in Patients with 
Advanced CLN2 
Disease 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
PL: Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical measures 
to address the risk: 
None 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 49
V.2:  Additional Risk Minimisation Measures
Dosing and Administration Guide 
The Dosing and Administration guide is an additional risk minimization measure for the 
important identified risks of Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/Dislocation/ 
Degradation) and Meningitis.  
Objectives: 
To provide health care professionals and patients information regarding the proper 
storage, preparation, and administration of cerliponase alfa. 
Rationale for the additional risk minimisation activity: 
As cerliponase alfa should be administered via a specific route (ICV), a detailed guide on 
the steps needed for proper preparation, dosage, storage, and administration of the drug is 
required to identify and address device related issues: infection including meningitis, 
blockage, dislocation, and degradation. 
Target audience and planned distribution path: 
Healthcare professionals:  
Dosing and administration guide will provide: 
•
Instructions for storage, preparation administration, and disposal of the
cerliponase alfa
• Guidance on proper dosage (posology) of cerliponase alfa and dose adjustments as
needed
• Guidance on device compatibility
•
Information on device-related complications, clinical, and laboratory monitoring
• Healthcare professionals are trained on the material in the Dosing and
administration guide prior to drug supplied to the site for use.
Plans to evaluate the effectiveness of the interventions and criteria for success: 
The effectiveness of cerliponase alfa labelling and education will be measured by 
monitoring effectiveness data, the rate and nature of all reported adverse events, and 
prescribing patterns to verify proper usage of cerliponase alfa in the post-marketing 
surveillance. Collected data will be evaluated to detect possible differences between pre-
and post-marketing populations, and whether these differences impact the risk-benefit 
balance of cerliponase alfa and presented in the PBRER.  
Removal of Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Not applicable. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 50
V.3:  Summary of Risk Minimisation Measures
Table V.3.1:  Summary Table of Pharmacovigilance Activities and Risk 
Minimisation Activities by Safety Concern  
Safety Concern 
Hypersensitivity 
Reactions 
(Including 
Anaphylactic 
Reactions) 
Device Issues 
(Device Infection / 
Blockage / 
Dislocation / 
Degradation) 
Convulsion-
Related Adverse 
Drug Reactions 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.4, 
Section 4.8  
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Dosing and Administration Guide to 
HCPs  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, 
Section 4.4, Section 4.8  
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Dosing and Administration Guide to 
HCPs  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.8  
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
FU: Specific adverse reaction follow-up 
questionnaire (Non-Clinical Trial Infusion 
Associated Reaction Form) 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up 
questionnaire (Request for Additional 
Information Regarding a Report of Device 
Related AE Form) 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
  
Meningitis 
Cardiac Events/ 
Bradycardia 
Hydrocephalus 
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 51
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up 
questionnaire (Request for Additional 
Information Regarding a Report of Device 
Related AE Form) 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, 
Section 4.4, Section 4.8  
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Dosing and Administration Guide to 
HCPs  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4, Section 4.8  
PL: Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 52
Long Term Safety 
and Tolerability 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.8 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2,   
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
Use in Pregnancy 
and During 
Lactation 
Use in Patients 
Below 2 Years of 
Age 
Use in Patients 
Above 8 Years of 
Age 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up 
questionnaire (Pregnancy Form) 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 53
Use in Patients 
with Advanced 
CLN2 Disease 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation 
measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. Brineura must 
only be administered by a trained 
healthcare professional knowledgeable 
in intracerebroventricular 
administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa 
Observational Study 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 54
PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Brineura (cerliponase alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Brineura. The RMP details 
important risks of Brineura, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Brineura's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Brineura's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Brineura should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Brineura should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Brineura's RMP. 
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Brineura is authorised for the treatment of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2) 
disease (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains cerliponase alfa as the active 
substance and it is given by intracerebroventricular (ICV) access. 
Further information about the evaluation of Brineura’s benefits can be found in 
Brineura’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/brineura 
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further
characterise the risks
Important risks of Brineura, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Brineura's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals.
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly.
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g.
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 55
In the case of Brineura, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Brineura is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A.
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Brineura are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Brineura. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Hypersensitivity Reactions (Including Anaphylactic Reactions) 
Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/ 
Dislocation/Degradation) 
Convulsion-Related Adverse Drug Reactions 
Meningitis 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac Events/Bradycardia 
Important missing 
information 
Hydrocephalus 
Long Term Safety and Tolerability 
Use in Pregnancy and During Lactation 
Use in Patients Below 2 Years of Age 
Use in Patients Above 8 Years of Age 
Use in Patients with Advanced CLN2 Disease 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 56
II.B.
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Hypersensitivity Reactions (Including Anaphylactic Reactions) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Hypersensitivity reactions are not unanticipated with any exposure to a protein-
based medicinal product. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in 
patients exposed to cerliponase alfa in clinical studies (190-201/202and 190-
203). Most of the events were observed during or within 24 hours after 
completion of infusion suggesting that these reactions are likely related to the 
cerliponase alfa treatment. 
None identified 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Dosing and Administration guide to HCPs 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important identified risk: Device Issues (Device Infection/Blockage/Dislocation/Degradation) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Cerliponase alfa should be administered intraventricularly via an implanted ICV 
reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, issues with the ICV device such as 
infection, blockage, and dislocation etc. are known to occur. Device issues, 
including infection, have been observed in patients exposed to cerliponase alfa 
in clinical studies (190-201/202and 190-203). 
None identified 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Dosing and Administration Guide to HCPs 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 57
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important identified risk: Convulsion-Related Adverse Drug Reactions 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Convulsions are a common manifestation of CLN2 disease and are expected to 
occur in this population. Convulsions were reported in 31 (81.5%)of 38 patients 
exposed to cerliponase alfa in clinical studies (190-201/202 and 190-203). The 
majority (>90%) of these events were mild to moderate, and 3.5% were 
considered related to cerliponase alfa. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
None identified 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.8 
PL: Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 58
Important identified risk: Meningitis 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Cerliponase alfa should be administered intraventricularly via an implanted ICV 
reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, there is a potential for 
inflammation of the meninges due to infectious agents. ICV access device-
related infections, including sub-clinical infections and meningitis, have been 
observed in patients treated with Brineura. Meningitis may present with the 
following symptoms: fever, headache, neck stiffness, light sensitivity, nausea, 
vomiting, and change in mental status. CSF samples should routinely be sent for 
testing to detect subclinical device infections. In clinical studies, antibiotics 
were administered, the ICV access device was replaced, and Brineura treatment 
was continued.  
None identified 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Section 4.3, Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 2, Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Dosing and Administration Guide to HCPs 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 59
Important potential risk: Cardiac Events/Bradycardia 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Cardiac events were observed with cerliponase alfa during clinical studies (190-
201/202 and 190-203). These included cardiac events such as bradycardia and 
vascular disorders such as hypotension. No correlation has been observed 
between cardiac events or bradycardia and safety or efficacy measures in the 
cerliponase alfa clinical studies. Hence these events were considered as a 
potential risk for cerliponase alfa. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
None identified 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4, Section 4.8 
PL: Section 4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 60
Important potential risk: Hydrocephalus 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Cerliponase alfa should be administered intraventricularly via an implanted ICV 
reservoir. As with any neurosurgical device, there is a potential for development 
of hydrocephalus (communicating or non-communicating) due to the ICV 
device. No events of hydrocephalus were reported in clinical studies (190-
201/202 and 190-203).  Cumulatively, as of 26 April 2022, two events of 
hydrocephalus were reported in the post-marketing setting. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
None identified 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important missing information: Long Term Safety and Tolerability 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.8 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 61
Important missing information: Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6, 
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important missing information: Use in Patients Below 2 Years of Age 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2 
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 62
Important missing information: Use in Patients Above 8 Years of Age 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important missing information: Use in Patients with Advanced CLN2 Disease 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.4 
PL: Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. Brineura must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional knowledgeable in 
intracerebroventricular administration in a healthcare setting. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Study 190-504: Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study 
See section II.C of this summary from an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 63
II.C.
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorisation: 
Study Short Name: 190-504 (EU): Cerliponase Alfa Observational Study (PASS Study) 
Purpose of the study: The primary objective of this non-interventional post authorisation 
safety (PASS) study is to evaluate the long-term safety of cerliponase alfa in patients with 
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis Type 2 (CLN2 disease). 
The secondary objectives of this study include the following: 
• To further assess the occurrence of serious hypersensitivity reactions (including
anaphylactic reactions), serious cardiovascular adverse events, and serious device-
related complications
• To evaluate the effects of Grade III serious adverse events (SAEs) on patient
performance on the CLN2 Clinical Rating Scale (Motor and Language domains)
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no other studies in the post-authorization development plan. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 68
ANNEX 4: Specific Adverse Drug Reaction Follow-up Forms 
Follow-up forms: 
•
Infusion-Related Reactions
• Device-Related Adverse Events
• Pregnancy
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 69
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)
TO:
FROM:
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)
(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:44)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:78)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)
(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:16)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:16)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:44)(cid:51)(cid:36)(cid:36)(cid:3)
(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:49)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:24)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:28)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 70
(cid:40)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:36)(cid:3)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:12)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:11)(cid:38)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:11)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)Pre(cid:882)medication(cid:3)
(cid:3)Pre(cid:882)medication(cid:3)
(cid:3)Pre(cid:882)medication(cid:3)
(cid:3)Pre(cid:882)medication(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:24)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 71
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:42)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:24)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 72
(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:11)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:59)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:16)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:18)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:15)(cid:82)(cid:91)(cid:92)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:36)(cid:53)(cid:34)(cid:3)
Vital(cid:3)Signs(cid:3)at(cid:3)the(cid:3)time(cid:3)of(cid:3)the(cid:3)event(cid:3)
Date:(cid:3)
Time:(cid:3)
Date:(cid:3)
Time:(cid:3)
Date:(cid:3)
Time:(cid:3)
Date:(cid:3)
Time:(cid:3)
Blood(cid:3)
Pressure:(cid:3)
Blood(cid:3)
Pressure:(cid:3)
Blood(cid:3)
Pressure:(cid:3)
Blood(cid:3)
Pressure:(cid:3)
Oxygen(cid:3)Saturation:
Heart(cid:3)rate:
Respiratory(cid:3)Rate:(cid:3)
Temperature:
Oxygen(cid:3)Saturation:
Heart(cid:3)rate:
Respiratory(cid:3)Rate:(cid:3)
Temperature:
Oxygen(cid:3)Saturation:
Heart(cid:3)rate:
Respiratory(cid:3)Rate:(cid:3)
Temperature:
Oxygen(cid:3)Saturation:
Heart(cid:3)rate:
Respiratory(cid:3)Rate:(cid:3)
Temperature:
(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:18)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:137) (cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)
(cid:137) (cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)
(cid:137) (cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)
(cid:137) (cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)
(cid:137) (cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:24)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 73
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:18)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:92)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:18)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:40)(cid:3)
(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:92)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:18)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:11)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:18)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:92)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:12)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:11)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:11)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:24)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 74
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Request for Additional Information Regarding a Report of 
Pregnancy
FROM:
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
TO:
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:15)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:138)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:44)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3)
Note:(cid:3)(cid:179)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:180)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)
(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:78)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:16)
(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:16)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:44)(cid:51)(cid:36)(cid:36)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:53)(cid:49)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)1(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)4
BioMarin Pharmacovigilance (cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)
Version: 0(cid:20) 
Effective Date: (cid:20)(cid:27)-AUG-2011 
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
    BPV Pregnancy DFRF 
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
   BPV-FM-012 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 75
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:36)(cid:3)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)
(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:11)Note: “Patient” refers to the mother)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(if other than addressee, provide contact information below)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:43)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:34)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:71)(cid:92)(cid:34)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
Drug Name  
 (generic or trade 
name) 
Exposure 
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:11)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:3)
Route 
Dose and 
Frequency 
Start
Date 
Stop Date 
(Check if 
Continued) 
Indication 
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:20)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:21)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:22)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:16)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:74)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:70)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:3)
Test 
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
Date(s) Performed 
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
Result(s)/Values 
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)2(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)4(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:56)(cid:42)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 76
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:38)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:75)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:56)(cid:39)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:57)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:77)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:18)(cid:44)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:16)(cid:3)
  Specify:(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:18)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) Specify: (cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)Specify(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:86)(cid:92)(cid:18)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:93)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:48)(cid:57)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:82)(cid:91)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:17)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:39)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)
 Specify(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)(cid:3)
Specify: (cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:36)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:57)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:57)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)Specify:(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
1st Day of Last Menstrual 
Period
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
Estimated Date of Conception 
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
Estimated Date of Delivery 
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:11)Please complete Delivery 
Information Section Below(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:16)(cid:56)(cid:83)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
   Specify Details:(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
Specify Details:(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
    Specify Details:(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)3(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)4(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:56)(cid:42)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:3)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 77
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:180)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:179)(cid:38)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)
Delivery Date(cid:29)(cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:50)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
Delivery Type(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:16)(cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:57)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:16)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:16)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:16)(cid:56)(cid:83)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:177)
  Specify Details:  
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:177) (cid:11)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:74)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:70)(cid:12)(cid:3)
Specify Details:  
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3) (cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:43)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:75)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)
DD/MM/YYYY
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:78)(cid:74)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:3)
(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:43)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:75)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
If multiple births (i.e. twins), Indicate total #:  (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:20)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:3)
Additional details on course of pregnancy, fetal complications, labor and delivery, infant information, etc:(cid:3)
(cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3) (cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)4(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)4
(cid:3)
(cid:3)
BioMarin Pharmacovigilance (cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)
Version: 0(cid:20) 
Effective Date: (cid:20)(cid:27)-AUG-2011 
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
    BPV Pregnancy DFRF 
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)
   BPV-FM-012 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 78
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:57)(cid:40)(cid:53)(cid:54)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:40)(cid:51)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:48)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:50)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:53)(cid:50)(cid:48)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:15)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)
(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:28)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:12)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:42)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:60)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:15)(cid:3)
(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:88)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:16)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:43)(cid:44)(cid:51)(cid:36)(cid:36)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:92)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:177)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
Page(cid:3)(cid:1005)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:396)(cid:3)(cid:1007)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3) (cid:19)(cid:19)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:22)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 79
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:57)(cid:40)(cid:53)(cid:54)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:40)(cid:51)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:48)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:91)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:58)(cid:72)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:75)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:40)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:49)(cid:39)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:56)(cid:54)(cid:51)(cid:40)(cid:38)(cid:55)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:44)(cid:38)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:50)(cid:49)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:49)(cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:50)(cid:49)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:48)(cid:49)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:28)(cid:19)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:12)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:92)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:57)(cid:40)(cid:53)(cid:54)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:57)(cid:40)(cid:49)(cid:55)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:49)(cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:48)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:50)(cid:49)(cid:3)
(cid:50)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:11)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:11)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:12)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:11)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:18)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:12)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:93)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:18)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:88)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:43)(cid:38)(cid:51)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:34)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:34)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:90)(cid:81)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:29)
(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:39)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:11)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:18)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:12)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:55)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:61)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
Page(cid:3)(cid:1006)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1007)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3) (cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:22)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 80
(cid:36)(cid:39)(cid:57)(cid:40)(cid:53)(cid:54)(cid:40)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:40)(cid:51)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:49)(cid:42)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:53)(cid:48)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:88)(cid:74)(cid:86)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:92)(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:17)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:3)
(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:23)(cid:28)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:46)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)__________________________________(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:90)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:15)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:75)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:17)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)
(cid:44)(cid:38)(cid:57)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:89)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:88)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:41)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:86)(cid:75)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:58)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:90)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:92)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:57)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:55)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:68)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:91)(cid:83)(cid:17)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:54)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:56)(cid:39)(cid:44)(cid:3)(cid:6)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:50)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:38)(cid:51)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:38)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:43)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:50)(cid:87)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:18)(cid:36)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:18)(cid:36)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:18)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:18)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:48)(cid:18)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:92)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:88)(cid:85)(cid:81)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:60)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:69)(cid:92)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:66)(cid:3)
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:3)
Page(cid:3)(cid:1007)(cid:3)(cid:381)(cid:296)(cid:3)(cid:1007)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:48)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:74)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)
(cid:57)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:29)(cid:3) (cid:19)(cid:19)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:16)(cid:36)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:3)
(cid:55)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:88)(cid:72)(cid:86)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:3)(cid:44)(cid:81)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:81)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:74)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:81)(cid:74)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:83)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:3)(cid:39)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:53)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:71)(cid:3)(cid:36)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:72)(cid:3)
(cid:40)(cid:89)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:41)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)
(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:81)(cid:87)(cid:3)(cid:49)(cid:82)(cid:17)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:57)(cid:16)(cid:41)(cid:48)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:22)
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 141
ANNEX 6:  Details of Proposed Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
Approved key messages of the additional risk minimisation measures  
Dosing and Administration Guide: 
The full Dosing and Administration Guide is attached to this annex. A summary of 
contents is provided below. 
As cerliponase alfa should be administered via a specific route (ICV), a detailed guide on 
the steps needed for proper preparation, dosage, storage, and administration of the drug is 
required to identify and address device related issues: infection including meningitis, 
blockage, dislocation, and degradation 
Healthcare professionals:  
Dosing and administration guide will provide: 
Instructions for storage, preparation, administration, and disposal of cerliponase 
alfa 
Shelf Life: 2 years 
Unopened frozen vials have a shelf life of up to 2 years. Thawed Brineura and flushing 
solution should be used immediately. Product should only be withdrawn from the 
unopened vials immediately prior to use. If immediate use is not possible, unopened vials 
of Brineura or flushing solution should be stored at 2-8°C and used within 24 hours. 
Special Precautions for Storage 
Store upright in a freezer (-25°C to -15°C). 
Special Precautions for Dosing and Administration 
Aseptic techniques must be strictly observed during preparation and administration. 
Brineura and flushing solution must be administered via the intracerebroventricular route 
only. Surgical implantation of the intracerebroventricular access device must take place 
prior to the first infusion. 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 300 mg cerliponase alfa administered once every other week 
by intracerebroventricular infusion.  
In patients less than 2 years of age, lower doses are recommended, as below. 
Age groups 
Birth to < 6 months 
6 months to < 1 year 
1 year to < 2 years 
2 years and older 
Total dose administered every other week (mg) 
100 
150 
200 (first 4 doses) 
300 (subsequent doses) 
300 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 142
Dose adjustments 
Consideration of dose adjustments may be necessary for patients who may not tolerate the 
infusion. The dose may be reduced by 50% and/or the infusion rate decreased to a slower 
rate. 
If the infusion is interrupted due to a hypersensitivity reaction, it should be restarted at 
approximately one-half the initial infusion rate at which the hypersensitivity reaction 
occurred. 
The infusion should be interrupted and/or the rate slowed in patients who in the 
judgement of the treating physician have a possible increase in intracranial pressure 
during the infusion as suggested by symptoms such as headache, nausea, vomiting, or 
decreased mental state.  
Guidance on proper Method of administration 
Preparation for administration of Brineura and Flushing Solution 
Thaw Brineura vials and flushing solution vial at room temperature for approximately 60 
minutes. Do not thaw or warm vials any other way. Do not shake vials. Condensation 
will occur during thawing period. Thawing the vials outside the carton is recommended.  
Brineura and flushing solution must be completely thawed and used immediately. 
Do not re-freeze vials or freeze syringes containing Brineura or flushing solution. 
Inspect thawed Brineura and flushing solution vials 
Inspect the vials to ensure they are fully thawed. Brineura and flushing solution should be 
clear to slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow. Brineura vials may occasionally 
contain thin translucent fibres or opaque particles. These naturally occurring particles are 
cerliponase alfa. These particles are removed via the 0.2 μm inline filter without having a 
detectable effect on the purity or strength of Brineura. 
The flushing solution may contain particles that dissolve when the vial is fully thawed. 
Do not use if the solutions are discoloured or if there is other foreign particulate matter in 
the solutions. 
Withdraw Brineura 
Label one unused sterile syringe “Brineura” and attach a syringe needle. Remove the 
green flip-off caps from both Brineura vials. Using aseptic technique, withdraw the 
volume of Brineura solution per required dose. Do not dilute Brineura. Do not mix 
Brineura with any other medicinal product. Discard the needle and empty vials. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 143
Withdraw flushing solution 
Determine the volume of flushing solution needed to ensure complete delivery of 
Brineura to the cerebral ventricles. Calculate the flush volume by adding the priming 
volume of all infusion components, including the intracerebroventricular access device. 
Label one unused sterile syringe “flushing solution” and attach a syringe needle. Remove 
the yellow flip-off cap from the flushing solution vial. Using aseptic technique, withdraw 
the appropriate amount of flushing solution from the vial into the new sterile syringe 
labelled “flushing solution”. Discard the needle and the vial with the remaining solution. 
Information on the device-related complications, clinical and laboratory monitoring 
Device-related complications 
Brineura must be administered using aseptic technique to reduce the risk of infection. In 
clinical studies, events of intracerebroventricular access device-related infections were 
observed. In these cases, antibiotics were administered, the intracerebroventricular access 
device was replaced, and Brineura treatment was continued. 
Healthcare professionals should inspect the scalp for skin integrity to ensure the 
intracerebroventricular access device is not compromised prior to each infusion. 
Inspection of the infusion site and a patency check must be performed to detect 
intracerebroventricular access device leakage and/or failure prior to initiation of Brineura 
infusion. Consultation with a neurosurgeon may be needed to confirm the integrity of the 
device. Brineura treatment should be interrupted in cases of device failure and may 
require replacement of the access device prior to subsequent infusions.  
In case of intracerebroventricular access device-related complications, refer to the 
manufacturer’s labelling for further instruction. 
Caution should be taken in patients prone to complications from intracerebroventricular 
medicinal product administration, including patients with obstructive hydrocephalus. 
Clinical and laboratory monitoring 
Vital signs should be monitored before infusion starts, periodically during infusion, and 
post-infusion in a healthcare setting. Upon completion of the infusion, the patient status 
should be clinically assessed and observation may be necessary for longer periods if 
clinically indicated, particularly in patients less than 3 years. 
Electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring during infusion should be performed in patients 
with a history of bradycardia, conduction disorder, or with structural heart disease, as 
some patients with CLN2 disease may develop conduction disorders or heart disease. In 
cardiac normal patients, regular 12-lead ECG evaluations should be performed every 6 
months. 
CSF samples should routinely be sent for testing to detect subclinical device infections. 
  
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 144
DOSING & ADMINISTRATION GUIDE
  This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring, special reporting is 
required in relation to adverse reactions.
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 145
Getting ready to administer 
BRINEURA®1
BRINEURA® is indicated for the treatment of neuronal 
ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2) disease, also known 
as tripeptidyl peptidase-1 (TPP1) deficiency.
The following steps are recommended for the dosing 
and administration of BRINEURA® and are based on the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Please refer to the 
full Summary of Product Characteristics (provided with this 
pack), your physician’s instructions and your institution’s 
policies and procedures for additional information  
and guidance.
BRINEURA® must only be administered via the 
intracerebroventricular route. BRINEURA® must only 
be administered by a trained healthcare professional 
knowledgeable in intracerebroventricular administration  
in a healthcare setting.
Special warnings and precautions  
for use1
Device-related complications 
BRINEURA® must be administered using aseptic technique 
to reduce the risk of infection. In clinical studies, events 
of intracerebroventricular access device-related 
infections were observed. In these cases, antibiotics were 
administered, the intracerebroventricular access device 
was replaced and BRINEURA® treatment was continued. 
Healthcare professionals should inspect the scalp 
for skin integrity to ensure the intracerebroventricular 
access device is not compromised prior to each infusion. 
Inspection of the infusion site and a patency check should 
be performed to detect intracerebroventricular access 
device leakage  
and/or failure prior to initiation of BRINEURA® infusion. 
Consultation with a neurosurgeon may be needed to 
confirm the integrity of the device. BRINEURA® treatment 
should be interrupted in cases of device failure and may 
require replacement of  
the access device prior to subsequent infusions.  
In case of intracerebroventricular access device 
complications, refer to the manufacturer’s labelling  
for further instruction.
Caution should be taken in subjects prone to 
complications from intracerebroventricular medicinal 
product administration, including patients with obstructive 
hydrocephalus.
Clinical and laboratory monitoring
Vital signs should be monitored before infusion starts, 
periodically during infusion, and post-infusion, in a 
healthcare setting. Upon completion of the infusion, 
the patient status should be clinically assessed and 
observation may be necessary for longer periods if 
clinically indicated, particularly in patients <3 years  
of age.
Electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring during infusion 
should be performed in patients with a history of 
bradycardia, conduction disorder, or with structural heart 
disease, as some patients with CLN2 disease may develop 
conduction disorders or heart disease.  In cardiac normal 
patients, regular 12-lead ECG evaluations should be 
performed every 6 months. 
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples should routinely be sent 
for testing to detect subclinical device infections.
Paediatric population
There were no patients with advanced disease progression 
at treatment initiation who were included in clinical trials 
and no clinical data is available in children <2 years of 
age. Patients with advanced CLN2 disease and newborns 
may have decreased integrity of the blood-brain barrier. 
Effects of the potentially increased medicinal product 
exposure on the periphery are unknown.
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains 44 mg sodium per vial of 
BRINEURA® and flushing solution. This should be taken into 
consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet.
Recommended dose1
BRINEURA® 150 mg solution for infusion is available in 
single-use vials, each containing 5 ml of solution.  
Each ml of solution for infusion contains 30 mg of 
cerliponase alfa.
2
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 146
The recommended dose is 300 mg (10 ml total from 
2 vials) administered once every other week by 
intracerebroventricular infusion. In patients <2 years  
of age, lower doses are recommended.
Pre-treatment of patients with antihistamines, with  
or without antipyretics, is recommended 30 to  
60 minutes prior to the start of infusion.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of BRINEURA® in children  
<3 years of age has not yet been established. Limited data 
are available for children aged 2 years and no clinical data 
are available in children <2 years of age. Posology is based 
on the age of the patients at the time of treatment. In patients 
<3 years of age the recommended dose is based on an 
ongoing clinical study. BRINEURA® should be administered 
according to the following recommended dose once every 
other week: 
• Birth to <6 months: 100 mg
• 6 months to <1 year: 150 mg
• 1 year to <2 years: 200 mg (first 4 doses),  
300 mg (subsequent doses)
• ≥2 years: 300 mg
Dose adjustments
Consideration of dose adjustments may be necessary 
for patients who may not tolerate the infusion. The dose 
may be reduced by 50% and/or the infusion rate 
decreased to a slower rate. If the infusion is interrupted 
due to a hypersensitivity reaction, it should be restarted at 
approximately one-half the initial infusion rate at which the 
hypersensitivity reaction occurred.
The infusion should be interrupted and/or the rate slowed 
in patients who, in the judgement of the treating physician, 
have a possible increase in intracranial pressure during 
the infusion as suggested by symptoms such as headache, 
nausea, vomiting or decreased mental state. These 
precautions are of particular importance in patients <3 
years of age.
Storage and care1
One carton of BRINEURA® contains three vials (two vials 
of BRINEURA® and one vial of flushing solution).  
Each vial of BRINEURA® and flushing solution is intended 
for single use only:
• Store upright in a freezer (–25°C to –15°C)
• Store in the original package in order to protect from 
light
• Unopened frozen vials have a shelf life of up  
to 2 years, see expiry date on the carton
Before use:
• Vials should be thawed at room temperature for 
approximately 60 minutes
• It is recommended to thaw vials outside the carton. 
Condensation will occur during the thaw period.  
Do not thaw or warm vials any other way
• Do not shake vials
•  BRINEURA® and flushing solution must be completely 
thawed and used immediately.  
Product should only be withdrawn from the unopened 
vials immediately prior to use. If immediate use is not 
possible, unopened vials  
of BRINEURA® or flushing solution should be  
stored at 2–―8°C and used within 24 hours
• If open vials or product held in syringes are not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior 
to use are the responsibility  
of the user
• Do not dilute BRINEURA® or mix with any  
other medications. Do not re-freeze vials  
or freeze syringes containing BRINEURA®  
or flushing solution
3
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 147
• Two single-use drug syringes compatible with the 
pump equipment. A syringe volume of 10 to 20 ml  
is recommended
• Two single-use hypodermic syringe needles 
(21 G, 25.4 mm)
• One single-use infusion set. An extension line may  
be added if needed. A length of 150 to 206 cm  
(not to exceed 400 cm) and an inner diameter of 0.1 
cm is recommended
• A 0.2 μm inline filter. The inline filter may be integral 
to the infusion set. The inline filter should be placed as 
close as practically possible to the port needle
• A non-coring port needle with a gauge of 22 or 
smaller and a suggested length of 16 mm. Refer  
to the intracerebroventricular access device 
manufacturer’s recommendation for the port needle
• One empty sterile single-use syringe (for collection of 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to check patency)
Prior to administration
Aseptic technique must be strictly observed during 
preparation and administration.
• BRINEURA® and the flushing solution must only be 
administered via the intracerebroventricular route 
• Surgical implantation of an intracerebroventricular 
access device (reservoir and catheter) must take place 
prior to the first infusion 
• The implanted intracerebroventricular access device 
should be appropriate for accessing the cerebral 
ventricles for therapeutic administration 
A number of infusion components are required (but 
not supplied) – all must be sterile and compatible 
with BRINEURA® and the flushing solution:
• Refer to BRINEURA® Summary of Product 
Characteristics section 6.6 for the list of compatible 
infusion components
Check you have the following sterile components 
before preparing to administer BRINEURA®: 
• A programmable syringe pump with appropriate 
delivery range, delivery rate accuracy and alarms 
for incorrect delivery or occlusion.  The pump must be 
programmable to deliver the medicinal product at a 
constant rate of 2.5 ml/hr. The complete  
infusion time, including BRINEURA® and the required 
flushing solution, is administered over approximately 
2 to 4.5 hours, depending on the dose and volume 
administered
Extension
line
Infusion set 
with 0.2 μm 
In-line ﬁlter
Port needle
Reservoir
Catheter
Intracerebroventricular 
access device
INTRACEREBROVENTRICULAR 
INFUSION ONLY
Syringe
Syringe pump
Figure 1: Infusion system set-up
4
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 148
Preparing BRINEURA® and flushing solution
Remove the carton containing two vials of BRINEURA® and one vial of flushing solution from the freezer:
• Vials should be thawed at room temperature for approximately 60 minutes
• It is recommended to thaw vials outside the carton. Condensation will occur during the thaw period.  
Do not thaw or warm vials any other way
• Do not shake vials
• BRINEURA® and flushing solution must be completely thawed and used immediately. Product should only be 
withdrawn from the unopened vials immediately prior to use. If immediate use is not possible, unopened vials of 
BRINEURA® or flushing solution should be stored at 2–―8°C and used within 24 hours
Inspect all the thawed vials:
• BRINEURA® and the flushing solution should be clear to slightly opalescent and colourless to pale yellow
• BRINEURA® vials may occasionally contain thin translucent fibres or opaque particles. These naturally occurring 
particles are cerliponase alfa. These particles are removed via the 0.2 μm inline filter without having a detectable 
effect on the purity or strength of BRINEURA®. The flushing solution may contain particles that dissolve when the vial 
is fully thawed. Do not use if the solutions are discoloured or if there is other foreign particulate matter in the solutions
WITHDRAW BRINEURA®:
• Label one unused sterile syringe ‘Brineura’ and attach a syringe needle
• Remove green flip-off caps from both BRINEURA® vials
• Using aseptic technique, withdraw the volume of BRINEURA® solution per required dose into the sterile syringe 
labelled 'Brineura' 
• Do not dilute BRINEURA®. Do not mix BRINEURA® with any other medicinal product
• Discard needle and empty vials per local requirements
WITHDRAW FLUSHING SOLUTION:
• Determine the volume of flushing solution needed to ensure complete delivery of BRINEURA® to the cerebral 
ventricles. Calculate the flush volume by adding the priming volume of all infusion components, including the 
intracerebroventricular access device
• Label one unused sterile syringe ‘flushing solution’ and attach a syringe needle
• Remove the yellow flip-off cap from the flushing solution vial
• Using aseptic technique, withdraw the appropriate amount of flushing solution from the vial into the new sterile 
syringe labelled ‘flushing solution’
• Discard needle and vial with remaining solution
5
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 149
Administering BRINEURA®
INTRACEREBROVENTRICULAR INFUSION OF BRINEURA® 
Administer BRINEURA® before flushing solution.
1   Label the infusion line for ‘intracerebroventricular infusion only’ 
2  
 Attach the syringe containing BRINEURA® to the extension line, if used, otherwise connect the syringe  
to the infusion set. The infusion set must be equipped with a 0.2 μm inline filter. See Figure 1 on page 4
3  
 Prime the infusion components with BRINEURA® 
4  
 Inspect the scalp for signs of intracerebroventricular access device leakage or failure and for potential 
infections (swelling, erythema of the scalp, extravasation of fluid or bulging of the scalp around or above the 
intracerebroventricular access device). Do not administer BRINEURA® if there are signs and symptoms of  
acute intracerebroventriuclar access device leakage, device failure or device-related infection
5  
 Prepare the scalp for intracerebroventricular infusion using aseptic technique per institution standard of care 
6  
 Insert the port needle into the intracerebroventricular access device 
7  
 Connect a separate empty sterile syringe (no larger than 3 ml) to the port needle. Withdraw 0.5 ml  
to 1 ml of CSF to check patency of the intracerebroventricular access device 
• Do not return CSF to the intracerebroventricular access device. CSF samples should routinely be  
sent for infection monitoring 
8  
 Attach the infusion set to the port needle (see Figure 1)
•   Secure the components per institution standard of care 
9  
 Place the syringe containing BRINEURA® into the syringe pump and programme the pump to deliver at an infusion 
rate of 2.5 ml per hour 
•   Programme the pump alarms to sound at the most sensitive settings for pressure, rate and volume limits.  
See the syringe pump manufacturer’s operating manual for details 
• Do not deliver as a bolus or manually 
 Initiate infusion of BRINEURA® at a rate of 2.5 ml per hour
• Advise caregivers that movement of the child during the infusion should be kept to a minimum to avoid 
dislodgement of the needle 
 Periodically inspect the infusion system during the infusion for signs of leakage or delivery failure 
 Verify that the ‘Brineura’ syringe in the syringe pump is empty after the infusion is complete. Detach  
and remove the empty syringe from the pump and disconnect from the tubing. Discard the empty syringe  
in accordance with local requirements
10  
11  
12  
6
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 150
   INTRACEREBROVENTRICULAR INFUSION OF FLUSHING SOLUTION 
Administer the flushing solution provided after BRINEURA® infusion is complete.
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
 Attach the syringe containing the calculated volume of flushing solution to the infusion components
  Place the syringe containing flushing solution into the syringe pump and programme the pump to deliver  
at an infusion rate of 2.5 ml per hour 
•  Programme the pump alarms to sound at the most sensitive settings for pressure, rate and volume limits.  
See the syringe pump manufacturer’s operating manual for details. 
•   Do not deliver as a bolus or manually
Initiate infusion of flushing solution at a rate of 2.5 ml per hour
 Periodically inspect the infusion components during the infusion for signs of leakage or delivery failure
 Verify that the ‘flushing solution’ syringe in the syringe pump is empty after the infusion is complete.  
Detach and remove the empty syringe from the pump and disconnect from the infusion line 
 Remove the port needle. Apply gentle pressure and bandage the infusion site per institution standard  
of care
 Dispose of the infusion components, needles, unused solutions and other waste materials in accordance with  
local requirements
7
Risk Management Plan 24 Nov 2023 v5.0
Page 151
Adverse events should be reported. Reporting forms and  
information can be found at www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard  
or call The Yellow Card Scheme on Freephone: 0808 100 3352  
(10 am to 2 pm Monday–Friday only). 
Adverse events should also be reported to BioMarin  
on +1 415 506 6179 or drugsafety@bmrn.com
Reference: 1. BRINEURA® Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Available at: http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Product_Information/human/004065/WC500229798.pdf.
©2017 BioMarin International Ltd. All rights reserved.
EU/BRIN/0033 July 2017
