EMA/3075/2014
EMEA/H/C/002717
EPAR summary for the public
Brintellix
vortioxetine
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Brintellix. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Brintellix.
For practical information about using Brintellix, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist.
What is Brintellix and what is it used for?
Brintellix is an antidepressant medicine containing the active substance vortioxetine. It is used to treat 
major depression in adults. Major depression is a condition in which patients have mood disturbances 
that interfere with their everyday life. Symptoms often include deep sadness, feelings of 
worthlessness, loss of interest in favourite activities, sleep disturbances, a feeling of being slowed 
down, feelings of anxiety and changes in weight.
How is Brintellix used?
Brintellix can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg) and 
oral drops (20 mg/ml). The usual dose is 10 mg once a day. Patients 65 years of age and over should 
be started on a lower dose of 5 mg daily. Lower doses may also be needed in patients taking certain 
medicines that reduce the breakdown of vortioxetine in the body and conversely higher doses may be 
considered in those taking medicines that increase the breakdown of vortioxetine. Treatment with 
Brintellix should continue for at least 6 months after the depressive symptoms have resolved.
For further information, see the package leaflet.
How does Brintellix work?
The active substance in Brintellix, vortioxetine, is an antidepressant. It acts on different receptors for 
serotonin in the brain, blocking the action of some receptors and having some stimulant action on 
others. In addition, vortioxetine blocks the action of the serotonin transporter, which is responsible for 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
clearing serotonin from its sites of activity in the brain, thus increasing the activity of serotonin.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter, a chemical that transmits signals between nerve cells. Because 
serotonin is involved in the control of mood, and can regulate the actions of other neurotransmitters 
that may be involved in depression and anxiety, these actions of vortioxetine are thought to result in 
its effect in improving depression.
What benefits of Brintellix have been shown in studies?
Brintellix has been studied in 12 main short-term studies involving more than 6,700 patients with 
major depression (including one study in patients aged 65 and over), in which it was compared with 
placebo (a dummy treatment) for 6 or 8 weeks. The main measure of effectiveness in each study was 
the change in a standard score for symptoms of depression; the studies showed that doses of Brintellix 
ranging from 5 to 20 mg were generally more effective than placebo in improving depression and 
resulted in a clinically relevant decrease of the depression scores. Supportive data from 52-week 
extensions of several of these studies suggested that the improvements that were seen were 
maintained longer-term.
In addition, the company presented results from two other main studies. In a 12-week comparison of 
Brintellix with another antidepressant, agomelatine, Brintellix was more effective than agomelatine in 
improving the symptom score. A 24-week study comparing the effect of Brintellix with placebo in 
preventing relapses of depression found that the proportion of patients given Brintellix who relapsed 
during the study was 13%, compared with 26% in the placebo group. 
What are the risks associated with Brintellix?
The most common side effect with Brintellix, seen in more than 1 in 10 people is nausea (feeling sick). 
Side effects were usually mild or moderate, short-lasting and occurred in the first two weeks of 
treatment. Effects on the gut such as nausea are more common in women than in men. Brintellix must 
be used with care and sometimes in adjusted doses in patients taking certain other medicines; it must 
not be used in patients also taking medicines known as nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors
(MAOIs) or selective monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) inhibitors. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions, see the package leaflet.
Why is Brintellix approved?
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Brintellix’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Studies 
have shown a clinically relevant improvement in major depressive episodes, and the types of side 
effects seen were similar to those with other antidepressants that act through serotonin. Although 
there was limited information about the use of doses above 10 mg daily in the elderly this was 
addressed in the product information. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Brintellix?
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Brintellix is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Brintellix, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.
Brintellix
EMA/3075/2014
2/3
Other information about Brintellix
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Brintellix on 18 December 2013. 
The full EPAR for Brintellix can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Brintellix, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
This summary was last updated in 01-2014.
Brintellix
EMA/3075/2014
3/3
