EU Risk Management Plan for Briumvi (ublituximab) 
RMP version to be assessed as part of this application:  
RMP version number: 1.2  
Data lock point for this RMP: 10 October 2023 
Date of final sign-off: 20 November 2023 
Rationale for submitting an updated RMP: Type 1b variation (change of due date for protocol 
submission); no change to the safety concerns.  
Summary of significant changes in this RMP:  
- 
Part I: Product Overview – Table 
New Marketing Authorisation Holder: Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
- 
Part III.2 Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
TG1101-RMS402 summary: Final Protocol Submission date changed from Q3 to Q4 2023 
TG1101-RMS404 summary: Study Start date corrected from Q1 2023 (erroneously reported) 
to Q1 2024 
- 
Part III.3 Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities 
Category 3/ TG1101-RMS402: Final Protocol Submission date changed from Q3 to Q4 2023 
Category 3/ TG1101-RMS404: Study Start date corrected from Q1 2023 (erroneously reported) 
to Q1 2024 
-  Annex 2:  
TG1101-RMS402: Final Protocol Submission date changed from Q3 to Q4 2023 
TG1101-RMS404 added 
QPPV name: Gabriella Caracciolo 
QPPV signature is kept on file 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of content 
Table of content ........................................................................................ 2 
List of abbreviations ................................................................................. 4 
Part I: Product Overview........................................................................... 6 
Part II: Module SI - Epidemiology of the indication and target population .. 7 
Part II: Module SII - Non-clinical part of the safety specification ............. 10 
Part II: Module SIII - Clinical trial exposure ............................................ 11 
Part II: Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials .................. 15 
SIV.1  Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the development programme ..... 15 
SIV.2  Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial development programmes ... 22 
SIV.3  Limitations in respect to populations typically under-represented in clinical trial 
development programmes ......................................................................................... 23 
Part II: Module SV - Post-authorisation experience ................................. 23 
SV.1 Post-authorisation exposure ............................................................................... 23 
Part II: Module SVI - Additional EU requirements for the safety 
specification ........................................................................................... 24 
Part II: Module SVII - Identified and potential risks ................................ 24 
SVII.1 
Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission ............................ 24 
SVII.2  New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an updated RMP .... 25 
SVII.3  Details of important identified risks, important potential risks, and missing 
information .............................................................................................................. 25 
Part II: Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns .......................... 30 
Part III: Pharmacovigilance Plan (including post-authorisation safety 
studies) .................................................................................................. 30 
III.1  Routine pharmacovigilance activities .................................................................. 30 
III.2  Additional pharmacovigilance activities .............................................................. 30 
III.3  Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities .................................... 33 
Part IV: Plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies .............................. 34 
Part V: Risk minimisation measures (including evaluation of the 
effectiveness of risk minimisation activities) ........................................... 34 
V.1. Routine Risk Minimisation Measures...................................................................... 35 
V.2. Additional Risk Minimisation Measures .................................................................. 36 
V.3.  Summary of risk minimisation measures ............................................................. 37 
Part VI: Summary of risk management plan for Briumvi (ublituximab) .... 40 
II.A List of important risks and missing information ....................................................... 41 
II.B Summary of important risks ................................................................................. 41 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan..................................................................... 46 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation .................................. 46 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan .......................................... 46 
2 
 
 
Part VII: Annexes ................................................................................... 47 
Annex 1 – EudraVigilance Interface......................................................... 48 
Annex 2 – Tabulated summary of planned, ongoing, and completed 
pharmacovigilance study programme ...................................................... 49 
Annex 3 – Protocols for proposed, on-going and completed studies in the 
pharmacovigilance plan .......................................................................... 51 
Annex 4 – Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms ....................... 52 
Annex 5 – Protocols for proposed and on-going studies in RMP part IV .... 53 
Annex 6 – Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities (if 
applicable) ............................................................................................. 54 
Annex 7 – Other supporting data (including referenced material) ............ 55 
Annex 8 – Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time .. 57 
3 
 
  
 
List of abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
Definition of term 
AE 
AESI 
AIDS 
ALT 
AST 
ATC 
CI 
CIS 
CNS 
Covid 19 
CVA 
DHO-DH 
DMT 
ECG 
EDSS 
EEA 
eGFR 
EMA 
EPAR 
EU 
FDA 
GFR 
GLP 
GPRD 
HBV 
HIV 
ICH 
IG-E 
IG-G 
INN 
INR 
IRR 
MDRD 
MS 
Adverse event  
Adverse Event of Special interest 
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Anatomical therapeutic chemical 
Confidence interval 
Clinically isolated symptom  
Central nervous system 
Corona virus disease 2019 
Cerebrovascular accident 
dihydroorotate dehydrogenase 
Disease modifying therapies 
Electrocardiogram 
Expanded Disability Status Scale 
European Economic Area 
Estimated glomerular filtration rate 
European medicines agency 
European public assessment report 
European Union 
(US) Food and Drug Administration 
Glomerular filtration rate 
Good Laboratory Practice 
General Practice Research Database 
Hepatitis B virus 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
Immunoglobulin E 
Immunoglobulin G 
International non-proprietary name 
International Normalized Ratio 
Infusion-related reactions 
Modification of Diet in Renal Disease 
Multiple Sclerosis 
NCI-ODWG 
National Cancer Institute-Organ Dysfunction Working Group 
NOAEL 
PASS 
PEG 
PIP 
PL 
No Observable Adverse Effect Level 
Post Authorisation Safety Study 
polyethylene glycol 
paediatric investigation plan 
Patient Leaflet 
4 
 
PML 
PP 
PR 
PSUR 
QPPV 
RMP 
RMS 
RRMS 
SGOT 
SGPT 
SmPC 
SP 
SPMS 
TB 
TEAE 
TIA 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
primary progressive 
progressive relapsing 
periodic safety update report 
Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance 
Risk Management Plan 
relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 
serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase 
summary of product characteristics 
secondary progressive 
secondary progressive multiple sclerosis 
tuberculosis 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
transient ischemic attack 
5 
 
 
 
Part I: Product Overview 
Table Part I.1 – Product Overview 
Active substance  
Ublituximab 
(INN or common name) 
Pharmacotherapeutic group 
Selective immunosuppressants (L04AA57, requested) 
(ATC Code) 
Marketing Authorisation  
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L.  
Holder 
Medicinal products to which 
1 
this RMP refers 
Invented name(s) in the 
Briumvi 
European Economic Area 
(EEA) 
Marketing authorisation 
Centralized (EMEA/H/C/005914) 
procedure  
Brief description of the 
Chemical class: 
product 
IgG1 chimeric monoclonal antibody, glycoprotein 
Summary of mode of action: 
Ublituximab binds to the trans-membrane antigen CD20 expressed 
on B-lymphocytes, inducing an immune response that results in the 
lysis of B cells. 
Important information about its composition:  
Ublituximab is a glycoengineered murine/human chimeric anti-CD20 
monoclonal antibody. 
Hyperlink to the Product 
Module 1.3.1 Briumvi (ublituximab) SmPC   
Information 
Current:  
Indication in the EEA  
Treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple 
sclerosis with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features. 
Dosage in the EEA 
Current: 
Initial first dose 150 mg intravenous infusion (150 mg of 
ublituximab in 6 mL at a concentration of 25 mg/mL), followed by 
the initial second dose 450 mg intravenous infusion 2 weeks 
later.  
Maintenance dose 450 mg intravenous infusion every 24 weeks 
(treatment interval with a minimum of 5 months). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical form and 
Current: 
strengths 
Concentrate for solution for infusion  
Is/will the product be 
subject to additional 
monitoring in the EU?       
Yes 
Part II: Safety specification 
Part II: Module SI - Epidemiology of the indication and target 
population 
Relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS)  
Incidence:  
A systematic review has comprehensively catalogued the incidence and prevalence of MS across 
Europe between January 1985 and January 2011. Only a few studies reported countrywide data. The 
prevalence and incidence of MS are not well documented in many regions of Europe. Incidence and 
prevalence of MS vary considerably between different ethnic populations (Kingwell E et al., 2013 ) 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) typically affects young adults (mean age at onset 30 years), and women are 
affected more often than men (median estimated female/male ratio is 2.1). Regionally, the average 
age of onset is 29.2 years in Europe (World Health Organisation, 2008.). 
Prevalence:  
The global prevalence of MS is estimated at 36 people per 100,000 people (The Multiple Sclerosis 
International Federation, 2020.). This global estimate has increased from 2.3 million people in 2013 
(The Multiple Sclerosis International Federation, 2020.), which is consistent with stated increases in 
the national prevalence in some countries over this time. Several factors are likely to play an important 
role in explaining the increase, including improvements in counting methods nationally and globally 
since 2013, as well as better diagnosis, people with MS living longer and global population growth (9% 
since 2013). Multiple sclerosis is present in all regions of the world but is notably higher in the 
European and Americas regions. In the European region, San Marino (337 per 100,000), Germany 
(303 per 100,000) and Denmark (282 per 100,000) have the highest number of people with MS. San 
Marino and Germany have the highest prevalence in the world. Europe has an estimated prevalence of 
133 per 100,000 inhabitants, followed by the Americas (112 per 100,000), Eastern Mediterranean (30 
per 100,000), South-East Asia (9 per 100,000), Africa (5 per 100,000) and Western Pacific (5 per 
100,000). The age-standardised (standardised to the 2013 European population) prevalence per 
100,000 by different ethnicities was 180, 74 and 29 for the White, Black and South Asian populations, 
respectively. 
Demographics of the population in the proposed indication and risk factors for the disease:  
The higher incidence of MS among women observed for the last 4–5 decades was not evident 3–4 
generations ago, when the sex ratio was close to unity. Recent studies have shown that the sex ratio in 
MS is still changing in many countries. For instance, in Japan, the female-to-male ratio has increased 
from 2.63 in 2001 to 3.57 in 2011. The risk of MS is increasing from south to north in Europe, North 
America and Japan on the northern hemisphere, and from north so south in Australia and New Zealand 
on the southern hemisphere (Houzen H et al., 2018; Benjaminsen E et al., 2014). The causes of the 
sex ratio changes that have occurred in most countries are unclear but are likely to have resulted from 
7 
 
 
 
environmental influences or from the consequences of gene–environmental interactions (Scalfari A et 
al., 2013). 
A recent analysis of trends in the sex ratio in MS for individuals born between 1930 and 1989 found a 
marked increase in Northern Europe (not including the UK) (from 2.09 to 3.77), but only a moderate 
increase in Southern Europe (from 1.46 to 2.31) (Trojano M, et al 2012). In contrast, a study in Sweden 
found a mean female-to-male ratio for MS of 2.62, with no clear trend with year of birth for individuals 
born between  1931  and  1985  (Mackenzie et  al.,  2014).  In the  ‘Incidence and  prevalence of  multiple 
sclerosis in the UK 1990–2010 descriptive study’ in the General Practice Research Database (GPRD), the 
mean female-to-male ratio for MS was 2.4 and there was no trend with time over the 20-year study 
period (Mackenzie IS et al., 2014). 
The mean age of MS diagnosis is 32 years (Walton C et al., 2020). The maximum incidence of MS 
occurred at age 40 years (women) to 45 years (men) (Mackenzie IS et al., 2014). 
The proportion of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who develop symptoms before 16 years of age 
has been variously estimated at between 0.4% and 10.5%. The estimated incidence of paediatric MS 
was 0.64 per 100 000 person-years with a clear increase from the age group ≤10 (0.09/100 000) to 
2.64 per 100 000 in age group 14−15 years. All had relapsing−remitting disease with polysymptomatic 
onset in half of the cases. Approximately 97% to 99% of the affected children have relapsing-remitting 
MS, while 85% to 95% of the adults experience such a condition (Inaloo S et al., 2013). 
Aging is a significant factor influencing the course of MS. Patients with MS over the age of 65 years are 
more likely to have a progressive course (primary progressive (PP), 29%; secondary progressive (SP), 
26%; or progressive relapsing (PR), 8%) compared to their younger counterparts of whom 57% have 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) (Sanai SA et al., 2016).  
The main existing treatment options:  
The current therapeutic approach involves symptomatic treatment, treatment of acute relapses, and 
disease modifying therapies (DMTs). Symptomatic treatment refers to all therapies applied to improve 
symptoms and complications caused by the disease. More specific treatments are those that intend to 
interfere with the pathophysiology of MS, e.g., facilitate remyelination or axonal conductivity. The 
standard of care for acute relapses is intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone which shortens the duration 
of a relapse but has no influence on its sequelae.  
DMTs aim to modify the course of the disease mainly by suppressing or modulating the immune 
responses involved in MS pathogenesis. Biological (therapeutic proteins, monoclonal antibodies) and 
small chemical active substances have been approved for use in this therapeutic context. These 
therapies aim to prevent relapses, and ultimately, intend to decrease the rate of accumulation of 
disability. Due to the risks (identified or potential) of opportunistic infections, malignancies, and other 
systemic adverse drug reactions, several of these treatment options are considered as second-line 
options, i.e., treatment is restricted to patients with rapidly evolving MS or those who had a suboptimal 
response to prior therapies.  
It is often recommended that patients take a DMT as early as they are diagnosed. Two conceptually 
different treatment approaches have emerged:  
•  The ‘escalation approach’ advocates the first line use of moderately effective DMTs (i.e., 
classical first-line therapies, e.g., interferons and glatiramer acetate) and a later escalation to 
high-efficacy therapies only if new disease activity breaks through, i.e., relapses or new lesions 
as shown by MRI.  
•  The ‘highly effective treatment early approach’ advocates initiation of high-efficacy therapies 
early on (as first-line therapy). Treatment-related risks are weighed against the expected 
8 
 
occurrence of brain damage caused by the disease.  
Several DMTs/DMT classes are currently available and approved in the EU (European union) for use in 
RMS, which vary in their mechanism of action, efficacy, safety, mode of administration and ease of use 
(Table II.1.).  
Table II.1. Disease Modifying Therapies (DMTS) for Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis (RMS) 
Disease Modifying Therapy for 
Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis (RMS) 
alemtuzumab  
cladribine  
dimethyl fumarate  
fingolimod  
(peg) interferon beta  
glatiramer acetate  
mitoxantrone  
natalizumab  
ocrelizumab  
ofatumumab  
ozanimod  
ponesimod  
siponimod  
teriflunomide  
Mechanism of Action 
anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody  
nucleoside analogue of deoxyadenosine  
modulates Nrf2 transcriptional pathway  
modulates sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor  
immunomodulatory cytokine  
immunomodulatory agent  
DNA intercalating agent  
anti-integrin α4 monoclonal antibody  
anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody  
anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody  
modulates S1P receptor sub-types 1 and 5  
modulates S1P receptor sub-type 1  
modulates S1P receptor sub-types 1 and 5  
inhibits mitochondrial dihydroorotate dehydrogenase 
(DHO-DH)  
Natural history of the indicated condition in the untreated population, including mortality and 
morbidity: 
Multiple sclerosis is an acquired idiopathic, inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the CNS in which 
the myelin sheath is disrupted due to genetic and environmental factors. The attacks are defined as 
new neurological deficits lasting more than 24 hours that can be associated with an anatomical 
localisation, in the absence of fever or any infection. Usually, the neurological deficit develops sub-
acutely over 2 to 4 weeks, and it usually resolves completely or partially over 6 to 8 weeks, either 
spontaneously, or after treatment with corticosteroids. Different clinical and pathological subtypes of 
MS have been identified. In about 80%–85% of patients, there are attacks (relapses), and complete or 
partial remissions following them, whereas in 10%–15% of patients, there is a slow progressive course 
without any relapses. Patients suffer a range of symptoms including motor weakness, spasticity, gait 
and coordination imbalance, sensory dysfunction, vision loss, sexual dysfunction, fatigue, depression, 
chronic pain, sleep disorders and cognitive impairment (Damal K et al., 2013).  
Clinical patterns can be grouped as follows (Lublin FD et al., 2014): clinically isolated symptom (CIS); 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS): Active and non-active RRMS; Progressive MS: Active 
progressive, active non-progressive, non-active progressive, non-active non-progressive (stable) 
subtypes. The term “relapsing MS (RMS)” applies to those affected patients with either relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) with 
superimposed relapses. Patients with relapsing MS, despite suffering from different MS forms, 
constitute a common target for current treatment options. There are no clear criteria that mark the 
transition from RRMS to SPMS. 
Although MS is essentially chronic and disabling, long-term disability is not necessarily the immediate 
cause of death. However, MS does carry the risk of systemic complications in the advanced stages of 
the disease that may lead to death (Scalfari A et al., 2013). Globally, there were 18,932 deaths (95% 
CI: 16,577 to 21,033) attributed to MS in 2016. The global age standardised death rates decreased 
significantly from 1990 to 2016 (change -11.5%; 95% CI: -35.4% to -4.7%) (GBD 2016 Multiple 
Sclerosis Collaborators, 2019). In 2016, the pooled crude mortality rate was 9.78 per 1,000 person-
years (95% CI: 6.81-14.02). Pooled all-cause standardised mortality rate (SMR) per 1,000 person-
9 
 
years was 2.80 (95% CI: 2.74-2.87), 2.56 (95% CI: 2.47-2.66) in males and 3.06 (95% CI: 2.97-
3.17) in females (Manouchehrinia A et al., 2016). The overall mortality rates in population-based 
French and US MS cohorts were 3.7 and 8.9 per 1,000 person-years, respectively.  
Important co-morbidities in the target population: 
Certain comorbidities are more prevalent in people with MS. According to a comprehensive systematic 
review of 249 articles, the most prevalent comorbidities in MS are depression (23.7%), anxiety 
(21.9%), hypertension (18.6%), hypercholesterolemia (10.9%), and chronic lung disease (10.0%) ( 
Marrie RA et al., 2015). Compared with the general population, vascular comorbidities are shown to be 
more prevalent in the population with MS, including hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and ischemic heart 
disease. A large population-based matched cohort study compared over 12,200 persons with MS 
registered in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink in England with close to 73,000 controls. Over an 
11-year period, patients with MS had a 28% increased risk of acute coronary syndrome, a 59% 
increased risk of cerebrovascular disease, and a 32% increased risk of any macrovascular disease, 
which was not completely accounted for by traditional vascular risk factors ( Magyari M et al., 2020). 
MS patients have an increased risk of infection, notably infections of the renal tract, and a two-fold 
increased risk of hospitalized infections compared with non-MS patients (Persson R et al., 2020 ). 
Part II: Module SII - Non-clinical part of the safety 
specification 
Key safety findings from non-clinical studies and relevance to human usage:  
The pharmacokinetic and toxicity profiles of ublituximab were evaluated after single and repeated 
doses in cynomolgus monkeys. Ublituximab was well tolerated upon weekly dosing for up to 26 weeks 
at doses of 30 mg/kg/dose in cynomolgus monkeys.  
Key ublituximab-related findings in repeat-dose toxicity studies included expected decreases in 
lymphocyte count and corresponding changes in lymphoid tissue, thymus, spleen, and bone marrow. 
Treatment-related mortality was observed in 1 female monkey administered with 50 mg/kg 
ublituximab in the 4-week good laboratory practice (GLP) toxicity study. On Day 20, the female was 
euthanized after demonstrating clinical signs of marked dehydration, pallor of the lip mucosa, 
hypothermia, hypoactivity, prostration, body weight loss, and markedly reduced food consumption in 
the presence of moderate modifications of the hepatic parenchyma. Similarly, body weight loss 
secondary to decreased food consumption with correlative changes in haematology and clinical 
chemistry parameters was observed in a male at 50 mg/kg. In comparison, 30 mg/kg ublituximab was 
well tolerated in monkeys after multiple doses over a 13-week period and over a 26-week period with 
changes primarily noted in lymphoid tissue. 
In general toxicity studies, there were no histopathology changes in reproductive tissues. Ublituximab 
was not tolerated in pregnant monkeys administered with 30 mg/kg ublituximab during the first, 
second, and third trimesters of pregnancy. Principal effects included increased foetal and infant loss as 
well as musculoskeletal- and central nervous system-related foetal abnormalities. Based on these 
results and a single dose evaluated, there was not a dose level or trimester in which a NOAEL for 
developmental outcomes could be determined.  
Toxicity 
•  Key issues identified from acute or repeat-dose toxicity studies 
The pharmacokinetic and toxicity profiles of ublituximab were evaluated after single and repeated 
doses in cynomolgus monkeys. Ublituximab was well tolerated upon weekly dosing for up to 26 weeks 
at doses of 30 mg/kg/dose in cynomolgus monkeys.  
10 
 
There were no ublituximab-related changes in body weights, qualitative food consumption, ophthalmic 
evaluation, veterinary physical examinations and vitals, qualitative ECG parameters, body 
temperatures, organ weights or macroscopic findings in all animals surviving to scheduled necropsy. 
The microscopic findings at terminal euthanasia were observed in the mandibular and mesenteric 
lymph nodes and spleen, which were consistent with the pharmacological activity of ublituximab. Other 
treatment-related microscopic changes included mononuclear cell infiltration in the central nervous 
system and eye as well as vascular/perivascular inflammation in various tissues that were potentially 
related to immune-mediated effects secondary to anti-drug antibody formation associated with the 
administration of ublituximab. 
•  Reproductive/developmental toxicity 
The pregnancy and foetal outcomes demonstrated increased foetal and infant mortality. Gestation 
length in the second and third trimester-treated females was also shorter. In 2 infants whose mothers 
were treated during the second trimester, abnormal external, skeletal, and morphometric findings were 
observed. There were no ublituximab-related developmental findings in infants whose mothers were 
treated during the first trimester. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Not applicable as per the ICH S6 guideline. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
As per the ICH S6 guideline, carcinogenicity studies are generally considered not to be relevant to 
biotechnology-derived products and were therefore not performed for ublituximab. 
Safety pharmacology  
In general toxicology studies, there were no observed findings related to the respiratory, 
cardiovascular or central nervous systems. 
Other toxicity-related information or data  
Not applicable. 
Part II: Module SIII - Clinical trial exposure   
In total, in the primary pooled safety population, 545 patients were exposed to ublituximab in two 
pivotal Phase III clinical studies. These clinical studies had a treatment duration of 96 weeks and a 
study duration of 120 weeks. The pooled Phase III studies provide comparative results with 
teriflunomide. This safety dataset is used as the primary data set throughout this RMP: 
Study TG1101-RMS301: A Phase III: UbLiTuximab In Multiple Sclerosis Treatment Effects 
(ULTIMATE I Study)  
Study TG1101-RMS302: A Phase III: UbLiTuximab In Multiple Sclerosis Treatment Effects 
(ULTIMATE II Study)  
Supplementary safety analyses included safety data from the 48 subjects included in the Phase II, 
single-arm, dose-finding study, Study TG1101-RMS201, concatenated with its extension study, Study 
TG1101-RMS201E, for the same subjects. The TG1101-RMS201(E) study was not pooled with the 
TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-RMS302 studies, as the Phase II studies utilized differing dose levels, a 
placebo phase, and varying infusion times. In addition, this Phase II study is a single-arm study, so not 
comparative like the Phase III studies: 
11 
 
Study TG1101-RMS201: A Placebo-Controlled Multi-Center Phase IIa Dose Finding Study of 
Ublituximab, a Third-Generation Anti-CD20 Monoclonal Antibody, in Patients with Relapsing Forms of 
Multiple Sclerosis 
Study TG1101-RMS201E: An Open Label Extension of the TG1101-RMS201 Trial, for Subjects 
Currently Enrolled in TG1101-RMS201 Treated with Ublituximab for Relapsing forms of Multiple 
Sclerosis 
Additionally, safety data were taken from an extension study which enrolled subjects from the 
ublituximab arm and the teriflunomide arm of the pivotal Phase III studies TG1101-RMS301 and 
TG1101-RMS302: 
TG1101-RMS303: An Open Label Extension Study of Ublituximab in Subjects with Relapsing Multiple 
Sclerosis 
Subjects from the pivotal Phase III studies, TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-RMS302, could roll-over to 
this extension study. The safety data of the subjects who received ublituximab in one of the Phase III 
studies and rolled over to this extension study were concatenated as a second safety data analysis 
(N=545).  
Also, safety data was supplemented with data on ublituximab for subjects who had previously received 
teriflunomide in Studies TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-RMS302, and who subsequently received 
ublituximab upon rolling over into Study TG1101-RMS303 (N=328). 
Finally, safety data from the 17 oncology/haematology studies (completed and ongoing; single agent 
and in combination) were taken into account. As these studies enrolled subjects with different 
indications and treated at different doses, these are only used as supplementary safety information. In 
these oncology studies, 1475 subjects were exposed to ublituximab single agent or in combination 
therapy. 
In the following tables, only safety data from the RMS studies are discussed, unless explicitly stated. 
Table SIII.1 Duration of exposure and dose extent of exposure 
Pooled Pivotal Phase III Studies 
(RMS301 and RMS302) 
Concatenated* 
Phase III 
Studies 
(includes 
RMS303) 
Ublituximab 
(N=545) n (%) 
Teriflunomide 
(N=548) n (%) 
Ublituximab 
(N=545) n (%) 
Number of infusions* 
Mean (SD) 
4.8 (0.62) 
4.8 (0.68) 
5.9 (1.30) 
Median (minimum, maximum) 
5.0 (1, 5) 
5.0 (1, 5) 
6.0 (1, 8) 
Number of infusions, n (%) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
5 (0.9) 
9 (1.7) 
11 (2.0) 
15 (2.8) 
3 (0.5) 
16 (2.9) 
17 (3.1) 
9 (1.6) 
5 (0.9) 
9 (1.7) 
11 (2.0) 
15 (2.8) 
505 (92.7) 
503 (91.8) 
186 (34.1) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
62 (11.4) 
240 (44.0) 
12 
 
 
Pooled Pivotal Phase III Studies 
(RMS301 and RMS302) 
Concatenated* 
Phase III 
Studies 
(includes 
RMS303) 
Ublituximab 
(N=545) n (%) 
Teriflunomide 
(N=548) n (%) 
Ublituximab 
(N=545) n (%) 
- 
2644 
- 
2637 
17 (3.1) 
3237 
2554 (96.6) 
2623 (99.5) 
3142 (97.1) 9 
75 (2.8) 
6 (0.2) 
80 (2.5) 
15 (0.6) 
8 (0.3) 
15 (0.5) 
8 
Total number of started infusions 
Total number of completed infusions 
without interruption, n (%) 
Total number of completed infusions 
with interruption, n (%) 
Total number of incomplete infusions, 
n (%) 
* Safety data from the Phase III studies RMS301 and RMS302, supplemented with the safety data from the 
extension study RMS303 from patients who received ublituximab in the studies RMS301 and RMS302.  
Taking into account that the second infusion will be given 0.5 months (2 weeks) after the first infusion, 
and all subsequent infusions given every 6 months, these numbers represent about 18,500 months of 
patient exposure time.  
Table SIII.2  Age group and gender  
Age 
Gender 
<38 years 
≥38 years 
Total 
Male 
Female 
Total 
Table SIII.3  Race and ethnic origin  
Race 
Black or African-American 
White 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
Other 
Total 
Ethnic Origin 
Hispanic or Latino 
Not Hispanic or Latino 
Not reported 
Unknown 
Patients 
(N=545) n (%) 
Patients 
(N=545) n (%) 
326 (59.8) 
219 (40.2) 
545 (100) 
200 (36.7) 
345 (63.3) 
545 (100) 
Patients 
n (%) 
8 (1.5) 
535 (98.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
545 (100) 
Patients 
n (%) 
13 (2.4) 
524 (96.1) 
6 (1.1) 
2 (0.4) 
13 
 
 
 
 
Total 
545 (100) 
Of the 17 clinical studies in oncology/haematology, 5 studies have been completed, and 12 are 
ongoing. These subjects receive ublituximab monotherapy (in 3 studies) or ublituximab in combination 
with other anti-cancer medications, and therefore, are not pooled as part of the core safety population. 
A brief summary on exposure is given below. 
For information, in Table SIII.4, the clinical trial exposure data for ublituximab in the 
oncology/haematology studies is presented for patients who received the single agent or in any 
combination. 
In these 1475 patients, the ublituximab dose varied, however, most patients (1368 [92.7%]) received 
900 mg, which is twice as high as in the RMS studies. The duration of exposure is given here as 
number of months.  
Table SIII.1  Clinical trial exposure in the oncology/haematology studies 
Duration of exposure 
Number of subjects (%) 
N=1475 
<1 month 
1-<3 months 
3-<6 months 
6-<12 months 
12-<24 months 
24-<36 months 
36-<48 months 
48-<60 months 
≥60 months 
18-64 
65-74 
75-84 
≥85 
Male 
Female 
167 (11.3) 
229 (15.5) 
310 (21.0) 
256 (17.4) 
247 (16.7) 
103 (7.0) 
121 (8.2) 
41 (2.8) 
1 (0.1) 
Age Group 
Number of subjects (%) 
N=1475 
581 (39.4) 
562 (38.1) 
288 (19.5) 
44 (3.0) 
Gender 
Race 
Number of subjects (%) 
N=1475 
959 (65.0) 
516 (35.0) 
Number of subjects (%) 
N=1475 
14 
 
 
White 
Black or African American 
1276 (86.5) 
63 (4.3) 
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
1 (0.1) 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Asian 
Multiple 
Other 
Not Reported/Unknown 
Ethnicity 
Hispanic or Latino 
Not Hispanic or Latino 
Not Reported 
Not Reported/Unknown 
3 (0.2) 
23 (1.6) 
4 (0.3) 
25 (1.7) 
80 (5.5) 
Number of subjects (%) 
N=1475 
53 (3.6) 
1291 (87.5) 
64 (4.3) 
67 (4.6) 
Part II: Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials     
SIV.1 
development programme 
Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the 
Pivotal data from studies TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-RMS302 support the safety and efficacy in the 
target population (RMS). Patient enrolment in these studies was based on inclusion/exclusion criteria 
that allowed for evaluation of safety and efficacy while minimising risk for patients and ensuring 
enrolment of patients considered representative of the target population. The key safety-related 
exclusion criteria from these studies are presented in Table SIV.1. 
15 
 
Table SIII.1  Key-safety-related exclusion criteria 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
Pregnant or nursing 
Immunomodulating agents 
Yes 
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
drugs are known to have a 
potential for embryo-foetal 
toxicity. Following weekly 
intravenous administration of 
ublituximab to pregnant 
monkeys during the first, 
second or third trimesters of 
pregnancy at the maximum 
clinical dose of 450 mg, foetal 
loss and external, skeletal 
and visceral abnormalities in 
infants were observed.  
≥ 10 years disease 
An EDSS of 2 or less with 
No 
These patients are not 
duration from onset with 
disease duration of at least 10 
included in the labelled 
subjects Expanded 
years would suggest minimal 
Disability Status Scale 
disease activity or 
(EDSS) ≤ 2.0 
progression. 
indication of active 
relapsing MS.   
16 
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
Current evidence or 
Immunomodulating agents 
No 
Serious infections, 
known history of 
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
clinically significant 
drugs are known to have a 
infection including: 
potential for 
immunosuppressive effects 
that could lead to infection or 
lead to reactivation of viral 
opportunistic infections/co-
infections. 
a. Chronic or ongoing 
active viral, bacterial, or 
fungal infectious disease 
requiring long term 
systemic treatment such 
as, but not limited to: 
PML, chronic renal 
infection, chronic chest 
infection with 
bronchiectasis, 
tuberculosis (TB), or 
active hepatitis C 
b. Previous serious 
opportunistic or atypical 
infections 
c. History of positive 
serology for hepatitis B 
or hepatitis C or HIV 
d. Previous diagnosis 
with a congenital or 
acquired 
immunodeficiency (AIDS) 
History of clinically 
CNS trauma could impact 
No 
interpretability of the study 
results. 
significant CNS 
trauma (e.g. 
traumatic brain 
injury, cerebral 
contusion, spinal 
cord compression 
including opportunistic 
infections, are included 
as an Important 
Potential Risk 
Overall, there is a 
limited number of 
patients with significant 
CNS trauma as a 
comorbidity in the 
target population to 
adequately evaluate 
ublituximab safety in 
this subset of patients. 
17 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
History of liver disease, 
No 
Based on available 
including but not limited 
It is unknown if there is an 
to: 
a. Known history of 
active hepatitis B or C 
any time prior to 
randomization or known 
history of active hepatitis 
A within 3 years prior to 
randomization 
effect of moderate-severely 
impaired hepatic function on 
ublituximab elimination and 
exposure in humans as well 
as if patients with moderate-
severe hepatic impairment 
would have a different safety 
profile from patients with 
normal to mild hepatic 
b. Presence of chronic 
impairment. 
liver or biliary disease 
c. Moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment 
defined as Child Pugh 
Score B or C, 
respectively, based on 
measurement of total 
bilirubin, serum albumin, 
International Normalized 
Ratio (INR) and as well 
as on presence /absence 
and severity of ascites 
and hepatic 
encephalopathy 
d. Any of the following 
abnormal laboratory 
values at screening or 
first infusion: 
• ALT/SGPT > 2 X the 
Upper Limit of Normal 
(ULN) 
• AST/SGOT > 2 X ULN 
clinical trial data, there 
was no clinically 
meaningful difference 
or trends observed in 
safety with ublituximab 
exposure in patients 
with mild hepatic 
impairment relative to 
patients with normal 
hepatic function; 
therefore, the safety 
profile of patients with 
moderate or severe 
hepatic impairment is 
not anticipated to be 
different. Ublituximab 
exposure was 
comparable in patients 
with mild or moderate 
hepatic impairment 
relative to patients with 
normal hepatic 
function.  
18 
 
 
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
History of renal 
No 
Based on available 
impairment, including, 
It is unknown if there is an 
but not limited to: 
effect of moderate-severely 
a. Hypoproteinaemia 
(e.g., in case of severe 
liver disease or nephrotic 
syndrome) with serum 
albumin < 3.0 g/dL 
impaired renal function on 
ublituximab elimination and 
exposure in humans as well 
as if patients with moderate-
severe renal impairment 
would have a different safety 
b. Severe renal 
profile from patients with 
insufficiency requiring 
normal to mild renal 
renal dialysis 
impairment. 
clinical trial data, there 
was no clinically 
meaningful difference 
or trends observed in 
safety with ublituximab 
exposure in patients 
with mild renal 
impairment relative to 
patients with normal 
renal function; 
therefore, the safety 
profile of patients with 
moderate or severe 
renal impairment is not 
anticipated to be 
different. Ublituximab 
exposure was 
comparable in patients 
with mild renal 
impairment relative to 
patients with normal 
renal function. 
Subjects with 
Immunomodulating agents 
No 
Serious infections, 
significantly impaired 
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
bone marrow function or 
drugs may have a potential 
significant anaemia, 
for myelosuppressive effects. 
leukopenia, or 
Patients with a severely 
thrombocytopenia 
impaired bone marrow 
including opportunistic 
infections, are included 
as an Important 
Potential Risk 
function at baseline may be 
more susceptible to 
developing a serious infection. 
a. Haematocrit < 24% 
and/or 
b. Absolute white blood 
cell count < 4,000 
cells/mm3 and/or 
c. Platelet count < 
150,000 cells/mm3 
and/or 
d. Absolute neutrophil 
 ≤ 1,500 cells/mm3 
19 
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
Absolute lymphocyte 
Immunomodulating agents 
No 
Decreased lymphocyte 
counts less than 
1000/microliter 
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
drugs are known to have a 
potential for 
immunosuppressive effects 
including impairment of bone 
marrow function.  
counts have been 
observed frequently, 
however, were mostly 
mild to moderate in 
severity and are 
associated with the 
intended mechanism of 
action of ublituximab. 
Based on these data, 
patients with 
significantly low 
hematological 
parameters at baseline 
are not anticipated to 
have poor outcomes 
due to ublituximab.  
20 
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
Overall, there is a 
limited number of 
patients with significant 
cardiovascular disease 
as a comorbidity in the 
target population to 
adequately evaluate 
ublituximab safety in 
this subset of patients. 
Patients with significant 
cardiovascular 
conditions could impact 
interpretability of the 
study results.   
Any severe and/or 
It is unknown if patients with 
No 
uncontrolled medical 
a history of cardiovascular 
conditions or other 
disorders would have a 
conditions such as: 
different safety profile from 
a. Symptomatic, or 
history of documented 
congestive heart failure 
(New York Heart 
Association functional 
classification III-IV) 
patients without a prior 
history of cardiovascular 
complications. Infused anti-
CD20s may have a potential 
for IRR-related hypotension. 
Therefore, patients with 
cardiovascular conditions 
b. QTcF: Female > 450 
(e.g. CHF) were not included. 
msec; male > 430 msec  
c. Angina not well-
controlled by medication 
d. Poorly controlled or 
clinically significant 
atherosclerotic vascular 
disease including 
cerebrovascular accident 
(CVA), transient ischemic 
attack (TIA), angioplasty, 
cardiac or vascular 
stenting in the past 6 
months prior to 
screening 
Other significant 
It is unknown if patients with 
No 
These diverse medical 
concurrent, uncontrolled 
a history of other significant 
medical condition 
medical conditions would 
including, but not limited 
have a different safety profile 
to, cardiac, renal, 
from patients without them. 
hepatic, haematological, 
gastrointestinal, 
endocrine, 
immunodeficiency 
syndrome, pulmonary, 
cerebral, psychiatric, or 
neurological disease.  
conditions may be 
present as 
comorbidities in the 
target population but 
will likely be limited to 
adequately evaluate 
ublituximab safety in 
these subset of 
patients. 
21 
 
 
Criterion 
Reason for exclusion 
Is it 
Rationale for not 
considered 
including as missing 
to be 
information 
included as 
missing 
information 
Immunomodulating agents 
No 
Serious infections, 
Lack of immunity to 
varicella  
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
drugs are known to have a 
potential for 
immunosuppressive effects 
that could lead to infection or 
lead to reactivation of viral 
opportunistic infections/co-
infections. 
Vaccination with live 
Immunomodulating agents 
No 
virus within 2 months of 
such as the anti-CD20 class of 
randomization 
drugs may impair immune 
response, which may lead to 
infection by a live virus 
administered by vaccination.  
including opportunistic 
infections, are included 
as an Important 
Potential Risk  
It is recommended in 
labelling to administer 
live virus vaccines at 
least 4 weeks prior to 
initiation of 
ublituximab, which is 
generally in alignment 
with guidelines for 
timing of live virus 
vaccinations with anti-
CD20 drug class 
administration. 
SIV.2 
development programmes  
Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial 
The ublituximab clinical development programme for the indication of RMS is unlikely to detect certain 
types of adverse reactions such as rare adverse reactions, adverse reactions with a long latency, or 
those caused by prolonged exposure beyond 96 weeks. Across the 545 subjects who received 
ublituximab in the two Phase III pivotal RMS studies, the median treatment duration was 72 weeks.  
When taking into account the extension study TG1101-RMS303 as well, 505 subjects received 
ublituximab treatment for >12 months.  
The studies in the clinical development programme for oncology/haematology, although the majority of 
studies is evaluating ublituximab in combination regimens, may provide safety information on rare 
adverse reactions, adverse reactions with a long latency or those caused by prolonged exposure. 
Across the 1475 subjects who have received ublituximab in oncology/haematology studies, the 
treatment duration was between 1 month and > 60 months. The dosages for the 
oncology/haematology studies differed and were higher (see Table SIII.4). 
22 
 
 
 
SIV.3 
in clinical trial development programmes 
Limitations in respect to populations typically under-represented 
Table SIV.2: Exposure of special populations included or not in clinical trial development 
programmes 
Type of special population  
Exposure 
Pooled Pivotal Phase III Studies 
(RMS301 and RMS302) 
Ublituximab 
(N=545) 
Pregnant/breastfeeding women 
Not included in the clinical development 
programme; however, 10 patients became 
pregnant on study in the pivotal studies 
Paediatric (patients <18 years) 
Not included in the clinical development 
programme 
Elderly (patients >55 years) 
0 
Patients with relevant comorbidities:  
Patients with renal impairment (all)* 
224 
Severe (eGFR <30 mL/min) 
Moderate (eGFR ≥30 to <60 mL/min) 
Mild (eGFR ≥60 to <90 mL/min) 
Patients with hepatic impairment (all)* 
Severe 
Moderate 
Mild 
Patients with cardiovascular impairment  
0 
4 
220 
41 
0 
3 
38 
7 
Immunocompromised patients  
Unknown 
Population with relevant different ethnic origin 
No ethnicities were excluded 
Subpopulations carrying relevant genetic 
Not included in the clinical development 
polymorphisms 
programme 
eGFR: estimated glomerular filtration rate; MDRD: Modification of Diet in Renal Disease; NCI-ODWG: National 
Cancer Institute-Organ Dysfunction Working Group. 
*Based on the MDRD equation (renal) and NCI-ODWG criteria (hepatic). 
Part II: Module SV - Post-authorisation experience    
SV.1 Post-authorisation exposure 
Not applicable as ublituximab is not marketed for any indication in any country.  
23 
 
 
Part II: Module SVI - Additional EU requirements for the 
safety specification       
Potential for misuse for illegal purposes 
Ublituximab is not able to pass the blood-brain barrier and is therefore not expected to have a 
potential for misuse for illegal purposes.  
Part II: Module SVII - Identified and potential risks  
SVII.1 
Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission  
SVII.1.1. Risks not considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the 
RMP  
Reason for not including an identified or potential risk in the list of safety concerns in the 
RMP: 
Adverse reactions with minimal clinical impact on patients (in relation to the severity of the indication 
treated) (mostly Grade 1 to 2 in severity and non-serious):  
Respiratory tract infections (upper and lower)  
Herpes virus infections  
Pain in extremity 
Neutropenia 
Decreased immunoglobulins 
Decreased lymphocytes 
Adverse reactions with clinical consequences, even serious, but occurring with a low frequency and 
considered to be acceptable in relation to the severity of the indication treated:  
Not applicable 
Impaired immunisation response 
Impaired immunization response in the setting of ublituximab treatment is unknown based on 
the data available from the clinical development programme. It is known to prescribers, 
however, that the mechanism of action of the anti-CD20 class of agents affects the immune 
system and may have an impact on immunisation response; therefore, it is not considered 
important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the RMP.  
SVII.1.2. Risks considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the RMP 
Important Identified Risk 1: Infusion-related reactions  
Risk-benefit impact:  
Infusion-related reactions in an individual can be impactful (medically important) and may require 
medical intervention and may lead to discontinuation of the treatment. 
Important Potential Risk 1: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g. PML 
and HBV reactivation)  
Risk-benefit impact:  
24 
 
Serious infections in an individual can be impactful (medically important) and may require medical 
intervention and may lead to discontinuation of the treatment. 
Important Potential Risk 2: Malignancy 
Risk-benefit impact: 
Malignancy in an individual can be impactful (medically important) and may require medical 
intervention and may lead to discontinuation of the treatment. 
Missing information 1: Long-term safety of ublituximab 
Risk-benefit impact: 
There has been about 18,500 months of patient exposure time across the 545 ublituximab-treated 
subjects in the pooled pivotal Phase 3 RMS trials and durations of ublituximab treatment exposure 
beyond 2 years in 257 of these subjects, in which no clinically significant impact on the risk-benefit 
balance has been observed. Longer-term safety data on ublituximab is limited to further assess the 
impact on the risk-benefit balance.  
Missing information 2: Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risk  
Risk-benefit impact:  
The safety profile of ublituximab is not known in pregnant or lactating women due to their exclusion 
from the RMS clinical studies; therefore, clinical data on the safety of ublituximab in pregnant or 
lactating women is limited to assess the impact on the risk-benefit balance. 
SVII.2  New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an 
updated RMP  
Not applicable.  
SVII.3  Details of important identified risks, important potential risks, and 
missing information 
SVII.3.1. Presentation of important identified risks and important potential risks 
SVII.3.1.1 Important Identified Risk: Infusion-related reactions 
Important identified risk: Infusion-related reactions 
Potential mechanisms  
Treatment with monoclonal antibodies has been associated with 
infusion-related reactions, some of which may be severe. Infusion-
related reactions (IRRs) are thought to be due to the release of 
cytokines and/or other chemical mediators. The exact mechanism 
responsible for infusion-related reactions to monoclonal antibodies is 
not known, but like the taxanes, these reactions are unlikely to be 
true type 1 IGE mediated hypersensitivity reactions (Lenz 2007).  
Evidence source and 
strength of evidence 
Infusion-related reactions were frequently reported in the RMS clinical 
studies of ublituximab (TG1101-RMS301, TG1101-RMS302, and 
TG1101-RMS201) and are a known class effect of anti-CD20 
monoclonal antibodies administered as an intravenous infusion. IRR 
were mostly non-serious and there were no fatal cases.  
25 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Infusion-related reactions 
Characterization of risk 
In the pooled analysis of the pivotal Phase III studies, the incidence 
of an IRR ADR was highest with the first infusion of ublituximab 
(40.4%) and decreased with subsequent infusions (8.6% with the 
second infusion, 7.0% with the third, 5.1% with the fourth, and 4.0% 
with the fifth). The ADRs of IRR had a median onset time and median 
duration of 1 day.  
The IRRs were mostly Grade 1 or 2 in severity; only 0.6% of subjects 
had Grade ≥3 IRRs. The most frequently reported IRRs by preferred 
term (≥10% of subjects) included pyrexia and headache.  
Two subjects had serious IRRs (anaphylactic reaction and 
hypersensitivity) that led to discontinuation of ublituximab and 1 
subject had a non-serious IRR that led to discontinuation of 
ublituximab.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Infusion-related reactions occur most often during the first infusion in 
patients who have not had this type of infusion before. 
Preventability 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product which is subject to restricted 
medical prescription.  
Therefore, health care professionals administering ublituximab must 
be vigilant for signs and symptoms. The possibility of a delayed 
reaction, which may occur up to 24 hours after the infusion, should 
also be considered. Any discomfort experienced by the patient should 
be notified to the treating physicians immediately. Pre-medication is 
required to mitigate IRRs. Appropriate medical support should be 
available for the management of severe reactions such as serious 
IRRs. Patients should be observed for at least one hour after 
completion of the first two infusions. Physicians should inform patients 
that IRRs can occur up to 24 hours after the infusion. The possibility of 
a delayed reaction, which may occur up to 24 hours after the infusion, 
should also be considered. 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
Infusion-related reactions in an individual can be impactful (medically 
important) and may require medical intervention or may lead to 
discontinuation of treatment. 
Public health impact: 
Most patients have only experienced mild to moderate events of IRR 
that resolved. The physician community is well aware of this risk and 
IRR management is a routine part of standard care, hence, the 
impact on public health is considered minimal. 
SVII.3.1.2 Important Potential Risk: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections 
(e.g., PML and HBV reactivation)  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., PML 
and HBV reactivation)  
Potential mechanisms  
The risk of infection, including opportunistic infections, may be 
associated with the use of any anti-CD20 biological product (including 
ublituximab), depleting B-cells. 
Evidence source and 
strength of evidence 
Characterization of risk 
Non-clinical findings show that ublituximab reduces B and T 
lymphocytic cells, and thereby may have a resulting 
immunosuppressant effect attributed to its pharmacologic action.  
Although serious infections were infrequently reported in the RMS 
clinical studies (TG1101-RMS301, TG1101-RMS302, and TG1101-
RMS201) of ublituximab, 3 fatal infections have occurred, and it is a 
known class effect of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies.   
Fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, and death caused by HBV 
reactivation have occurred in patients treated with anti-CD20 
antibodies. There was one case of HBV reactivation that occurred in a 
patient treated with ublituximab in the RMS clinical development 
program. 
No cases of PML in the RMS clinical studies of ublituximab have been 
reported; however, this opportunistic infection has been observed with 
other anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies and other MS therapies. 
In the pooled analysis of the pivotal Phase III studies, serious 
infections were reported in 5.0% of subjects in the ublituximab group 
and 2.9% of subjects in the teriflunomide group. The most common 
TEAEs (≥0.5% of subjects in any group) of serious infections were 
pneumonia (ublituximab: 0.9%; teriflunomide: 0.4%), COVID-19 
pneumonia (ublituximab: 0.7%; teriflunomide: 0.4%), and acute 
sinusitis (ublituximab: 0.6%; teriflunomide: 0). When excluding 
subjects with COVID-19 pneumonia, serious infections were reported 
in 23 of 545 subjects (4.2%) in the ublituximab group and 14 of 548 
subjects (2.6%) in the teriflunomide group.  
Grade ≥3 serious infections were reported in more subjects in the 
ublituximab group compared to subjects in the teriflunomide group (20 
[3.7%] versus 10 [1.8%]). The most common Grade ≥3 TEAEs were 
pneumonia (ublituximab: 0.7%; teriflunomide: 0.2%) and COVID-19 
pneumonia (ublituximab: 0.7%; teriflunomide: 0.2%). 
Serious infections led to discontinuation of ublituximab in a total of 4 
subjects: central nervous system enteroviral infection in 2 subjects 
and pulmonary tuberculosis and meningoencephalitis viral in 1 subject 
each. 
In the ublituximab group, there were 3 fatal infections (encephalitis, 
pneumonia, and salpingitis). The fatal case of encephalitis was 
attributed to a post-measles complication, and the fatal case of 
salpingitis was attributed to a post-procedural complication of an 
ectopic pregnancy; both events were considered not related to 
ublituximab. The fatal case of pneumonia was considered related to 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., PML 
and HBV reactivation)  
ublituximab.  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Previous or concomitant medicines that affect the immune system, 
such as chemotherapy, immunosuppressants or other medicines used 
to treat multiple sclerosis, can be important contributing factors. In 
patients with a history of HBV infection, anti-CD20 antibody therapy 
may trigger HBV reactivation. 
Preventability 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to restricted medical 
prescription. Health care professionals administering ublituximab 
must be vigilant for signs and symptoms of serious infections.  
HBV screening should be performed in all patients before initiation of 
treatment with ublituximab. For patients who are HBsAg negative and 
anti-HBc positive or who are carriers of HBV [HBsAg positive], consult 
clinicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring 
and consideration of HBV antiviral prophylaxis before starting and 
during treatment with ublituximab. 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
Serious infections in an individual can be impactful (medically 
important) and may require medical intervention or may lead to 
discontinuation of treatment. 
Public health impact: 
Minimal public health impact is foreseen. Serious infections are a 
known class effect for antiCD20 monoclonal antibodies and occurred 
at similar rates in the standard-of-care comparator approved. 
SVII.3.1.3 Important Potential Risk: Malignancy 
Important potential risk: Malignancy 
Potential mechanisms  
Evidence source and 
strength of evidence 
Characterization of risk 
The pathogenesis of malignancy with anti-CD20s is not well 
understood. It is hypothesized that immunosuppressive therapies 
could result in loss of immune protection against cancer such as via 
impaired immunosurveillance or activation of the immune system to 
become pro-tumorigenic (Melamed E 2020).  
A potential risk of malignancy has been observed with another anti-
CD20 antibody. A weight of evidence approach (including review of 
the non-clinical and clinical findings with ublituximab and a 
comprehensive literature review on the biology, mechanism of 
action and non-clinical and clinical findings of other anti-CD20 
therapies) has not revealed data to suggest that treatment with 
ublituximab would support or induce proliferation of transformed 
cells possibly leading to neoplasia.  
Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with ublituximab. There 
were 3 malignancies reported in the ublituximab RMS clinical 
development programme: 2 serious cases: 1 endometrial stromal 
sarcoma and 1 uterine cancer in the Phase III studies; and 1 non-
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Malignancy 
serious case: basal cell carcinoma in the Phase II study. The events 
were likely idiopathic or etiologically related to the subject’s disease 
state. The exact underlying cause of endometrial stromal sarcoma is 
currently unknown. All 3 subjects recovered, and all cases were 
considered not related by the Investigator. 
No risk factors have been identified. 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to restricted medical 
prescription. Health care professionals administering ublituximab 
must be vigilant for signs and symptoms of malignancies. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Preventability 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product 
Malignancy in an individual can be impactful (medically important) 
and may require medical intervention or may lead to discontinuation 
of treatment. 
Public health impact 
Minimal public health impact is foreseen. 
SVII.3.2. Presentation of the Missing Information 
Missing information: Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment 
Evidence source 
The long-term safety of ublituximab has not yet 
been established. Long-term safety of 
ublituximab is being further investigated in the 
TG1101-RMS303 open label extension study of 
ublituximab in subjects with RMS. There has 
been about 18,500 months of patient exposure 
time across the 545 ublituximab-treated 
subjects in the pooled pivotal Phase 3 RMS 
trials and durations of ublituximab treatment 
exposure beyond 2 years in 257 of these 
subjects.  
Further characterisation of patients who have 
received ublituximab treatment for longer 
durations of exposure is needed. 
Population in need of further characterisation/ 
Anticipated risk/consequence 
Missing information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risk 
Evidence source 
The safety of ublituximab in pregnant or 
lactating women has not been established due 
to their exclusion from the clinical studies. 
Based on findings in animal studies and the 
mechanism of action of ublituximab, 
ublituximab may cause foetal harm and infant 
B cell depletion when administered to a 
pregnant woman. The presence of 
ublituximab in human milk and its effects on 
the breastfed child or on milk production 
have not been investigated.  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risk 
Population in need of further characterisation/ 
Anticipated risk/consequence 
Although ublituximab is not intended to be 
used in pregnant or lactating women, 
considering the demographics of MS patients 
receiving ublituximab, further 
characterisation in this patient population is 
needed. 
Part II: Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns    
Table S0.IIIII.1  Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Infusion-related reactions 
Important potential risks 
Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., PML and 
HBV reactivation) 
Malignancy  
Missing information 
Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risk 
Part III: Pharmacovigilance Plan (including post-
authorisation safety studies) 
III.1 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities    
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse reactions reporting and signal detection: 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires: Potential progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML)  
Other forms of routine pharmacovigilance activities: Suspected cases of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) will be escalated for further review, assessment and 
adjudication. The adjudication process will include internal neurologist(s)/neurology expert(s) with 
MS experience and external experts, e.g., infectious disease specialists, neurologists and 
neuroradiologists, as needed. To perform the adjudication, all facets of a case will be reviewed in 
detail, including patient background and characteristics, medical history, concomitant medications, 
diagnostic tests, clinical course, laboratory tests, treatment and outcome.   
III.2 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities  
TG1101-RMS402 summary 
Study short name and title: 
TG1101-RMS402, A long-term observational study of the safety and effectiveness of ublituximab in 
patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis 
Rationale and study objectives: 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To characterise the long-term safety of ublituximab treatment in RMS patients  
Primary Objective 
•  To assess the incidence of serious infections and malignancies in ublituximab-treated relapsing 
MS patients observed longitudinally 
Study design: 
This is a prospective, observational, non-interventional, multi-centre, global study with safety data and 
outcomes collected as part of standard clinical practice.  
Study population:  
Cohorts of approximately 2,300 ublituximab-treated patients with RMS and 700 other DMT-treated 
patients with RMS will be enrolled. 
Milestones:  
Final Protocol submission: Q4 2023; Interim Reports: annually beginning one year after the launch of 
Briumvi in any EU country; Final Report submission: one year following study completion 
TG1101-RMS403 summary 
Study short name and title: 
TG1101-RMS403, A registry study of pregnancy and infant outcomes in patients treated with 
ublituximab.   
Rationale and study objectives:  
To characterise the safety of ublituximab use in pregnancy, including maternal, foetal and 
neonate/infant outcomes, in female patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis.  
Primary Objectives 
To estimate the incidence of major congenital malformations in foetuses/infants born to ublituximab-
exposed pregnant women with MS.  
Study design: 
This is an observational registry study designed to evaluate maternal, foetal and neonate/infant 
outcomes resulting from ublituximab exposure prior to (approximately 6 months before last menstrual 
period prior to becoming pregnant) and during pregnancy in female participants with RMS. Infants 
born to ublituximab-exposed mothers will be evaluated for one-year post-partum. Additional study 
populations of pregnant patients not exposed to ublituximab will be used as a comparison cohort.   
Study population:  
The prospectively planned study populations include (a) a cohort with a target sample size of 100 live 
births in female participants with RMS with ublituximab exposure within 6 months of their LMP or 
anytime during pregnancy and (b) an internal control cohort with a target sample size of 100 live 
births in female participants with RMS  not exposed to ublituximab, who may be treated with an 
approved DMT or no DMT, enrolled as a comparison cohort. A third population (c) is a healthy control 
cohort.  
Milestones:  
Final Protocol submission: 03/2024; Study Start: 06/2024, Interim Reports: annually beginning in 
03/2025; Study Finish: 03/2035, Final Report submission: 03/2036 
31 
 
TG1101-RMS404 summary 
Study short name and title: 
TG1101-RMS404, A study to characterize the safety of Briumvi use in Pregnant Patients with Multiple 
Sclerosis using Data from an Administrative Healthcare Claims Database 
Rationale and study objectives:  
To characterise the safety of ublituximab use in pregnancy, including maternal, foetal and 
neonate/infant outcomes, in female patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis.  
Primary Objectives 
To estimate the incidence of major congenital malformations in foetuses/infants born to ublituximab-
exposed pregnant women with MS.  
Study design: 
This is a retrospective analysis utilizing secondary data of pregnant women with MS who received 
ublituximab from 6 months prior to the first day of the estimated last menstrual period (LMP) or up to 
and including the end of pregnancy, as well as their infants.  
Study population:  
The study will analyse data for pregnant women with MS who have received at least one prescription 
for ublituximab within 6 months prior to estimated LMP, who have uninterrupted coverage in the 
database, and who have a linked infant or record of other birth outcome. This study will use a case-
control design and include a matched control group of patients with MS who did not receive 
ublituximab as a comparator to those who received ublituximab.   
Milestones:  
Final Protocol submission: 03/2024; Study Start: Q1 2024, Interim Reports: annually beginning in 
03/2025; Study Finish: 03/2035, Final Report submission: 03/2036 
TG1101-RMS303 summary 
Study short name and title:  
TG1101-RMS303 Open Label Extension Study of Ublituximab in Subjects with Relapsing Multiple 
Sclerosis  
Rationale and study objectives: 
Extension study of TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-RMS302 to evaluate the long-term safety and 
efficacy of ublituximab treatment in subjects with relapsing forms of MS 
Study design: 
Open-label extension study 
Study population: 
This is an open-label extension study for subjects who previously completed studies TG1101-RMS301 
and TG1101-RMS302. 
Milestones: 
Final Report submission: estimated Q1 2029 
32 
 
III.3 
Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities  
Table Part III.1: On-going and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study  
Summary of objectives 
Safety concerns 
Milestones 
addressed 
Due 
dates 
Status  
Category 1 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of 
the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific 
Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances   
Not applicable 
Category 3 – Required additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
A long-term 
To assess the incidence of 
Long-term safety 
Updated 
observational 
serious infections and 
of ublituximab 
proposal 
07 Jul 
2023 
study of the 
malignancies in relapsing MS 
treatment; serious 
safety and 
participants treated with 
infections, 
effectiveness of 
ublituximab compared with 
including 
Final Protocol 
Q4 2023 
submission 
ublituximab in 
other disease-modifying 
opportunistic 
patients with 
treatments (DMTs) observed 
infections; and 
Interim 
Report 
Annually 
beginning 
relapsing multiple 
longitudinally. 
malignancy 
Submissions 
one year 
sclerosis 
(TG1101-
RMS402) 
Planned 
To evaluate the long-term 
safety of ublituximab 
compared to other DMTs in 
patients with relapsing forms 
of multiple sclerosis in a real 
world setting 
To assess long-term 
effectiveness of ublituximab 
compared with other DMTs in 
participants with relapsing 
forms of MS. 
after the 
launch of 
Briumvi in 
any EU 
country 
Final report 
One year 
submission 
following 
study 
completion  
A registry study 
To characterise the safety of 
Safety of 
of pregnancy and 
ublituximab use in 
ublituximab in 
Updated 
proposal 
07 Jul 
2023 
infant outcomes 
pregnancy, including 
pregnant women, 
in patients 
maternal, foetal and 
including infants 
treated with 
neonate/infant outcomes, in 
exposed to 
Final Protocol 
Q1 2024 
submission 
ublituximab 
female patients with 
ublituximab 
Study Start 
06/2024 
(TG1101-
RMS403) 
relapsing forms of multiple 
during pregnancy 
sclerosis 
Interim report 
Annually 
submissions 
beginning 
in 03/2025 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  
Summary of objectives 
Safety concerns 
Milestones 
addressed 
Due 
dates 
Status  
Planned 
Study Finish 
03/2035 
Final report 
03/2036 
submission 
A study to 
To characterise the safety of 
Safety of 
characterize the 
ublituximab use in 
ublituximab in 
Updated 
proposal 
07 Jul 
2023 
safety of Briumvi 
pregnancy, including 
pregnant women, 
use in pregnant 
maternal, foetal and 
including infants 
patients with 
neonate/infant outcomes, in 
exposed to 
Final Protocol 
Q1 2024 
submission 
multiple sclerosis 
female patients with 
ublituximab 
Study Start 
Q1 2024  
using data from 
relapsing forms of multiple 
during pregnancy 
an administrative 
sclerosis 
healthcare claims 
database 
(TG1101-
RMS404) 
Planned 
Interim report 
Annually 
submissions 
beginning 
in 03/2025 
Study Finish 
03/2035 
Final report 
03/2036 
submission 
Conducted voluntarily by marketing authorisation holder: 
Open-label 
Extension study of TG1101-
Long-term safety 
Final report 
Estimated 
extension study 
RMS301 and TG1101-
of ublituximab 
submission 
Q1 2029 
of ublituximab in 
RMS302 to evaluate the 
treatment; serious 
subjects with 
long-term safety and efficacy 
infections, 
relapsing multiple 
of ublituximab treatment in 
including 
subjects with relapsing forms 
opportunistic 
of MS 
infections; and 
malignancy 
sclerosis 
(TG1101-
RMS303) 
Ongoing 
Part IV: Plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies    
There are no plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies.  
Part V: Risk minimisation measures (including evaluation of 
the effectiveness of risk minimisation activities) 
Risk Minimisation Plan  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V.1. Routine Risk Minimisation Measures  
Table Part V.1 Description of routine risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation activities  
Infusion-related 
Routine risk communication: 
reactions (important 
identified risk)  
SmPC: Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 
PL: Sections 2, 3, 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.2, Pre-medication is required to mitigate infusion-
related reactions.  
SmPC Section 4.2, Appropriate resources should be available to 
manage severe infusion reactions.  
SmPC Section 4.4, Observe patients for at least one hour after the 
first two infusions. Patients should be informed infusion reaction can 
occur up to 24 hours. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product  Information: 
Legal status: Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Serious infections, 
Routine risk communication: 
including 
opportunistic 
infections (e.g., 
PML and HBV 
reactivation) 
(important potential 
risk)  
SmPC: Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
PL: Sections 2, 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.3 and 4.4, Delay administration with an 
active infection until resolved.  
SmPC: Section 4.4, Physicians should monitor for early signs or 
symptoms of PML. If suspected, withhold, and perform appropriate 
diagnostic evaluation. If PML is confirmed, permanently discontinue 
ublituximab.  
SmPC: Section 4.4, Hepatitis B virus screening should be 
performed before initiation of treatment with ublituximab. 
Patients with positive hepatitis serology should be referred 
to a liver disease expert before start of treatment and 
should be monitored. Patients with an active Hep B virus 
should not be treated with ublituximab. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product   Information: 
Legal status: Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Malignancy 
(important potential 
risk)  
Routine risk communication: 
35 
 
SmPC: Section 4.3 
PL: Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.3, Patients with a known active cancer 
should not be treated with ublituximab. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product   Information: 
Legal status: Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Long-term safety of 
ublituximab 
treatment 
(missing 
information) 
Routine risk communication: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures: 
None  
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Legal status: Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Safety in pregnancy 
and lactation, 
including foetal risks 
(missing 
information) 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Sections 4.4, 4.6, 5.3  
PL: Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.6, Women of childbearing potential 
should use effective contraception while receiving 
ublituximab and for at least 4 months after the last 
infusion.   
SmPC: Section 4.6, For activities during breastfeeding 
while on ublituximab.  
SmPC: Section 4.4, In infants of mothers treated with 
ublituximab during pregnancy, vaccines administration 
should be discussed with a qualified specialist.  
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product Information: 
Legal status: Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
V.2. Additional Risk Minimisation Measures  
Routine risk minimisation activities as described in Part V.1 are sufficient to manage the safety 
concerns of the medicinal product. 
36 
 
 
 
V.3. Summary of risk minimisation measures  
Table Part V.3: Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation 
activities by safety concern 
Safety concern  Risk minimisation activities  
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Infusion-related 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
reactions 
(important 
Communication: 
identified risk)  
SmPC: Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8  
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
PL: Sections 2, 3, 4 
Specific clinical measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
None 
SmPC: Section 4.2 and PL: 
Section 3, where advice is 
given on pre-medication and 
having appropriate resources 
available to manage severe 
infusion reactions  
SmPC: Section 4.4, observe 
patients for at least one hour 
after the first two infusions 
SmPC: Section 4.4 and PL: 
Section 4: patients should be 
informed infusion reaction 
can occur up to 24 hours 
Subject to restricted medical 
prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Serious infections, 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including 
opportunistic 
infections (e.g., 
PML, HBV 
reactivation) 
(Important 
potential risk)  
Communication: 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
SmPC: Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
PML targeted follow-up 
PL: Sections 2, 4 
questionnaire 
Specific clinical measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Post-authorisation long-term 
safety study (TG1101-RMS402) 
SmPC: Sections 4.3 and 4.4 
and PL: Section 2, delay 
administration with an active 
infection until resolved  
SmPC: Section 4.4 and PL: 
Section 2, monitor signs or 
symptoms of PML; withhold 
37 
 
 
 
Safety concern  Risk minimisation activities  
Pharmacovigilance activities 
if suspected PML and 
perform appropriate 
diagnostic evaluation 
including MRI; permanently 
discontinue if PML confirmed 
SmPC: Sections 4.3 and 4.4 
and PL: Section 2, hepatitis 
B virus screening prior to 
initiation; consult liver 
disease expert for positive 
hepatitis serology  
Subject to restricted medical 
prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Malignancy 
(Important 
potential risk)  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Post-authorisation long-term 
safety study (TG1101-
RMS402) 
Communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.3 
PL: Section 2 
Specific clinical measures: 
SmPC: Section 4.3 and PL 
Section 2, patients with a 
known active cancer should 
not be treated with 
ublituximab  
Subject to restricted medical 
prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None 
Long-term safety 
of ublituximab 
treatment 
(Missing 
information) 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Communication: 
None 
Specific clinical measures:  
None 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Post-authorisation long-term 
Subject to restricted medical 
safety study (TG1101-RMS402) 
prescription. 
38 
 
 
 
Safety concern  Risk minimisation activities  
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None  
Safety in 
pregnancy and 
lactation, 
including foetal 
risks (Missing 
information) 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Communication: 
SmPC: Sections 4.4, 4.6, 5.3 
PL: Section 2 
Specific clinical measures: 
beyond adverse reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Post-authorisation pregnancy 
SmPC: Section 4.6 and PL: 
safety studies (TG1101-RMS403 
Section 2, contraception for 
and TG1101-RMS404) 
at least 4 months after last 
infusion in women of 
childbearing potential   
Refer to SmPC Section 4.6 
and PL Section 2 for 
activities during 
breastfeeding while on 
ublituximab.  
Refer to SmPC Section 4.4 
and PL Section 2 for 
activities required in case 
that an infant is exposed in 
utero to ublituximab. 
Subject to restricted medical 
prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None  
39 
 
 
 
Part VI: Summary of risk management plan for Briumvi 
(ublituximab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Briumvi. The RMP details important risks of 
Briumvi, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Briumvi’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Briumvi’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Briumvi should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Briumvi should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Briumvi’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Briumvi is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
(RMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains ublituximab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. Ublituximab is a 
glycoengineered murine/human chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that targets an epitope of the 
B-lymphocyte antigen CD20 expressed on the cell membranes of lymphocytes.  
Further information about the evaluation of Briumvi’s benefits can be found in Briumvi’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency website, under 
the medicine’s webpage.  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/briumvi 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Briumvi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Briumvi’s risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
40 
 
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Briumvi is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Briumvi are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Briumvi. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the 
medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Infusion-related reactions 
Important potential risks 
Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., 
PML and HBV reactivation) 
Malignancy 
Missing information 
Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment  
Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risks 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Infusion-related reactions  
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
TG1101-RMS301, TG1101-RMS302, TG1101-RMS201 and their 
medicine 
extension studies. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Infusion-related reactions occur most often during the first 
infusion in patients who have not had this type of infusion 
before. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8  
PL: Section 2, 3, 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities 
recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk: 
• 
Treatment with other medicines such as a corticosteroid 
and antihistamine to mitigate possible side effects such 
as infusion-related reactions are required before each 
infusion; medicines used to reduce fever may also be 
41 
 
 
 
 
used. 
•  Appropriate medical support should be available for the 
management of severe reactions such as serious infusion 
related reactions. 
• 
Patients should be observed for at least one hour after 
completion of the first two infusions of ublituximab for 
any symptom of infusion-related reaction. Physicians 
should inform patients that an infusion-related reaction 
can occur up to 24 hours after the infusion. 
Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC include more 
detailed information. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
None 
Important potential risk: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., PML 
and HBV reactivation) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
TG1101-RMS301, TG1101-RMS302, TG1101-RMS201 and 
medicine 
their extension studies. 
Opportunistic infections including PML and HBV reactivation 
are a class risk for anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies; 
however, no cases of PML have been observed in the RMS 
studies with ublituximab. 
Risk factors and risk groups  
Previous or concomitant medicines that affect the immune 
system, such as chemotherapy, immunosuppressants or 
other medicines used to treat multiple sclerosis, can be 
important contributing factors. In patients with a history of 
hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, anti-CD20 antibody 
therapy may trigger HBV reactivation. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
PL: Sections 2, 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities 
recommending specific clinical measures to 
42 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Serious infections, including opportunistic infections (e.g., PML 
and HBV reactivation) 
address the risk:  
•  Administration of ublituximab must be delayed in 
patients with an active infection until the infection is 
resolved.  
• 
For progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML; 
a very rare and life-threatening brain infection), 
physicians should be alerted for the early signs and 
symptoms which can include any new onset or 
worsening of neurological signs or symptoms. If PML is 
suspected, dosing with ublituximab must be withheld 
and an appropriate diagnostic evaluation should be 
performed. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) 
findings may be apparent before clinical signs or 
symptoms. If PML is confirmed, ublituximab must be 
discontinued permanently.  
•  Hepatitis B virus screening should be performed before 
initiation of treatment with ublituximab as per local 
guidelines because patients with active Hepatitis B 
virus infection should not be treated with ublituximab. 
Patients with positive serology (blood serum 
diagnostic); carriers of Hepatitis B virus should be 
referred to a liver disease expert before start of 
treatment and should be monitored and managed 
following local medical standards to prevent hepatitis 
B reactivation.  
Sections 4.3 and 4.4 of the SmPC include more 
detailed information 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities  
Post-authorisation long-term safety study (TG1101-
RMS402) 
43 
 
 
Important potential risk: Malignancy 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
A potential risk of malignancy has been observed with 
medicine 
another anti-CD20 antibody. A weight of evidence approach 
(including review of the non-clinical and clinical findings 
with ublituximab and a comprehensive literature review on 
the biology and mechanism of action) has not revealed data 
to suggest that treatment with ublituximab would support 
or induce proliferation of transformed cells possibly leading 
to neoplasia. 
Risk factors and risk groups  
No risk factors have been identified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Section 4.3  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Patients should be asked whether they have an active 
cancer because patients with a known active cancer should 
not be treated with ublituximab. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the 
Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
activities 
Post-authorisation long-term safety study 
(TG1101-RMS402) 
Missing information:  Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommended 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
None 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information:  Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment 
restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
Post-authorisation long-term safety study 
(TG1101-RMS402) 
Open Label Extension Study of ublituximab in subjects with 
Relapsing MS (TG1101-RMS303) 
Missing information:  Safety in pregnancy and lactation, including foetal risks  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC: Sections 4.4, 4.6, 5.3  
PL: Section 2  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Women of childbearing potential should be instructed 
that they should use contraception while receiving 
ublituximab and for at least 4 months after the last 
infusion of ublituximab.  
• 
It is unknown whether ublituximab is excreted in 
human milk. Human IgGs are known to be excreted in 
breast milk during the first few days after birth, which 
decreases to low concentrations soon afterwards; 
consequently, a risk to the breast-fed infant cannot be 
excluded during this short period. Afterwards, 
ublituximab could be used during breast-feeding if 
clinically needed. 
• 
In infants of mothers treated with ublituximab during 
pregnancy, live or live-attenuated vaccines should not 
be administered before the recovery of B-cell counts 
has been confirmed.  Measuring CD19-positive B-cell 
levels in neonates and infants prior to vaccination is 
recommended. Inactivated vaccines may be 
administered as indicated prior to recovery from B-cell 
depletion, however, assessment of vaccine immune 
responses, including consultation with a qualified 
specialist, should be considered to determine whether 
a protective immune response was mounted. The 
safety and timing of vaccination should be discussed 
with the infant’s physician. 
Sections 4.4 and 4.6 of the SmPC includes more 
detailed information. 
Other risk minimisation measures beyond the 
45 
 
 
Missing information:  Long-term safety of ublituximab treatment 
Product Information: 
Medicine’s legal status: 
Ublituximab is a medicinal product subject to restricted 
medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
Post-authorisation pregnancy and infant 
outcomes safety studies (TG1101-RMS403 and 
TG1101-RMS404) 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
ublituximab.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Long-term surveillance of ublituximab-treated patients with multiple sclerosis 
Purpose of the study: 
• 
to characterise the long-term safety of ublituximab in RMS patients, with a primary objective to 
estimate the incidence rates of serious infections and malignancies. 
A registry study of pregnancy and infant outcomes in patients treated with ublituximab   
Purpose of the study: 
• 
to further characterise the safety of ublituximab in RMS patients when used during pregnancy, 
including follow-up of infants exposed to ublituximab during pregnancy.  
A study to characterize the safety of Briumvi use in pregnant patients with multiple sclerosis 
using data from an administrative healthcare claims database 
Purpose of the study: 
• 
to characterize the safety of Briumvi use in pregnant patients with multiple sclerosis and their 
infants using data from an administrative healthcare claims database 
Open Label Extension Study of ublituximab in subjects with Relapsing MS   
Purpose of the study:  
• 
to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of ublituximab treatment in subjects with 
relapsing forms of MS for subjects previously treated in studies TG1101-RMS301 and TG1101-
RMS302 
46 
 
Part VII: Annexes 
Table of contents 
Annex 1 – EudraVigilance Interface ............................................................................. 48 
Annex 2 – Tabulated summary of planned, ongoing, and completed pharmacovigilance study 
programme .............................................................................................................. 49 
Annex 3 - Protocols for proposed, on-going and completed studies in the pharmacovigilance 
plan ........................................................................................................................ 51 
Annex 4 - Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms .............................................. 52 
Annex 5 - Protocols for proposed and on-going studies in RMP part IV  ............................ 53 
Annex 6 - Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities (if applicable) ............ 54 
Annex 7 - Other supporting data (including referenced material) .................................... 55 
Annex 8 – Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time .......................... 57 
47 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4 – Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms  
Specific Adverse Event Follow-Up Questionnaire – Potential progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML)  
52 
 
 
 
Form instructions are located on the final page of the form. 
Information for the person completing this form 
Section 1:  Background Information 
Name:             
 Health Care Professional (HCP):  
  Yes    
  No 
Relationship to patient:             
Title (e.g., MD, RN):             
Company Name:                
  N/A 
Company Case Number (if applicable):                
  N/A 
Address:             
Email:             
Phone #:             
Patient Information  
Date of Birth or Age:             
Briumvi (ublituximab) Use 
Has the patient taken Briumvi (ublituximab)? 
  Yes    
  No 
Fax #:             
Ht (in):             
Wt (lb):             
Sex (assigned at birth):  
  Undifferentiated     
  Male     
  Female     
  Decline to answer 
Indication/Diagnosis for Use:             
Initially Prescribed Dose:             
Current Dose:             
If current dose differs from initially prescribed 
dose, please explain why:             
Usage Dates from:  Click or tap to enter a date.  to  
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Frequency of Dose:             
Usage Status:  
  Discontinued 
  Ongoing    
  N/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) 
Section 2:  Relevant Medical History 
Does the patient have a diagnosis of multiple 
sclerosis?  
  Yes    
  No 
Autoimmune Disorders 
Does the patient have an autoimmune disorder 
diagnosis?  
  Yes    
  No 
Hematological Malignancies 
Does the patient have any hematological 
malignancies?  
  Yes    
  No 
Specific diagnosis:             
Date of first diagnosis:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
If relapsing MS, provide the date of the last 
relapse?  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Specific diagnosis:             
Date of first diagnosis:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Outcome:  
  Recovered    
  Ongoing 
Specific diagnosis:             
Date of first diagnosis:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Outcome:  
  Recovered    
  Ongoing 
History of CNS Infections                                                                                                             
  N/A 
Specific Diagnosis and Pathogen:             
Date:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Specific Diagnosis and Pathogen:             
Date:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS)    
  N/A 
  HIV 
  AIDS 
Date of first diagnosis:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
  Past    
  Current 
Date of first diagnosis:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
  Past    
  Current 
Transplants (HSCT or Solid Organ)                                                                                             
  N/A 
Specific Diagnosis:             
Specific Diagnosis:             
Date:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Date:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Other Relevant Medical History (e.g. CNS lymphoma or other CNS disorders)                                                                                                   
  N/A 
Details:             
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3:  Relevant Prior or Concomitant Medications  
If the patient was taking any prior or concomitant medications associated with or known to increase the 
risk of PML, please provide details below. 
(E.g., natalizumab, prednisolone, dimethyl fumarate, fludarabine, rituximab, brentuximab vedotin, 
fingolimod, or ocrelizumab) 
Medication 
Indication 
Dose/Unit 
Route 
Frequency 
Start Date 
Continuing? 
(Y/N) 
Date of Last 
Dose / Stop 
Date 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Click or 
tap to 
enter a 
date. 
Please list any additional relevant concomitant medications (e.g. other immunosuppressants) 
below: 
Associated Neurological Signs or Symptoms (select all that apply) 
Section 4:  PML Diagnosis Details 
  Difficulty speaking 
thinking 
  Difficulty with memory or 
  Difficulty with vision or 
  Headache 
  Loss of coordination 
  Sensory loss 
Imaging Scan(s) 
  Weakness in the arms or 
legs 
reading 
  Seizure 
  Other 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
performed:  
  Yes    
  No 
Results of scan:             
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Gadolinium:  
  Used    
  Not Used   
Are MRI results consistent with a PML diagnosis?   
  Yes    
  No    
  Inconclusive 
 
 
 
           
           
           
           
           
  
           
           
           
           
           
  
           
           
           
           
           
  
 
           
 
 
           
Section 4:  PML Diagnosis Details 
Computerized tomography (CT) 
performed:  
  Yes    
  No 
Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) PCR Test 
CSF for JC Virus (JCV) test performed: 
  Yes    
  No 
Brain Biopsy 
Brain biopsy performed: 
  Yes    
  No 
Additional Testing 
Physical Examination: 
  Yes    
  No 
Other relevant testing used to aid in 
PML diagnosis:  
  Yes    
  No 
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Results of scan:             
Are CT results consistent with a PML diagnosis?   
  Yes    
  No    
  Inconclusive 
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
JC Virus Result:  
  Positive    
  Negative    
  Unknown 
Results of CSF PCR Test:             
Are CSF test results consistent with a PML diagnosis?   
  Yes    
  No    
  Inconclusive 
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Histopathologic Triad:   
  Positive    
  Not Assessed     
  Negative    
  Inconclusive     
Immunohistochemistry or electron microscopy: 
  Negative    
  Inconclusive     
  Positive    
  Not Assessed     
Results of Biopsy:             
Are biopsy results consistent with a PML diagnosis?   
  Yes    
  No    
  Inconclusive 
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Results of exam:             
Test Performed:             
Date Performed:  Click or tap to enter a date. 
Results of test:             
Was a specialist consulted?  
If yes, provide a summary of the consultation notes: 
  Yes    
  No 
Section 5:  Pertinent Laboratory Test Results  
Provide details of the laboratory tests including normal range, as available (select all that apply) 
 
 
 
           
 
 
Section 5:  Pertinent Laboratory Test Results  
Normal Range (include 
units) 
Test dates and results 
with units (if available, 
include baseline value)1 
Test 
Performed 
Test Name 
Neutrophils 
Basophils 
Eosinophils 
Lymphocytes 
CD4+ T cell count 
CD8+ T lymphocytes 
CD19+ B cell count 
B lymphocytes 
Immunoglobulin M 
Immunoglobulin G 
Blood anti-JCV antibody 
JCV DNA in urine 
1 Please specify if result is from CSF or blood/serum. 
Section 6:  All Other Contributing Factors  
If applicable, please discuss any other factors that may have contributed to the PML diagnosis (that 
have not been previously specified above): 
 
 
 
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
 
 
 
Form Instructions 
•  Access to completed forms, and information contained therein, must be restricted to 
authorized parties. 
•  Completed forms must be protected at all times and securely stored. 
•  Printing of completed forms should be limited to only those instances where absolutely 
necessary, and only in a secure manner (i.e., do not execute remote printing, ensure printed 
form is immediately retrieved by authorized party, etc.). 
•  Electronic transmissions (e-mail, electronic file transfer, etc.) of completed forms, and 
information contained therein, must be adequately secured and protected from unauthorized 
access or disclosure. 
•  Confirm the accuracy of recipient(s) e-mail address(es) or other electronic destination, prior 
to transmission. 
Send form using either secure email (preferred) or fax to TGTX Pharmacovigilance and 
Drug Safety at:  
Email:  TGTXSafety@ubc.com  
US Fax #:  1-877-778-1887 
Outside of US Fax #:  +800 (24) 25 26 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 6 – Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities (if 
applicable)  
Not applicable. 
54 
 
 
