ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Briumvi 150 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 150 mg of ublituximab in 6 ml at a concentration of 25 mg/ml. The final 
concentration after dilution is approximately 0.6 mg/ml for the first infusion and 1.8 mg/ml for the 
second infusion and all subsequent infusions. 
Ublituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody produced in a clone of the rat myeloma cell line YB2/0 
by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion [sterile solution] 
Clear to opalescent, and colourless to slightly yellow solution. 
The pH of the solution is 6.3 to 6.7, and the osmolality is 340 to 380 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1.  Therapeutic indications 
Briumvi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
(RMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features (see section 5.1). 
4.2.  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialised physicians experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of neurological conditions and who have access to appropriate medical support to 
manage severe reactions such as serious infusion-related reactions (IRRs). 
Premedication for infusion-related reactions 
The following two premedications must be administered (orally, intravenously, intramuscular, or 
subcutaneously) prior to each infusion to reduce the frequency and severity of IRRs (see section 4.4 
for additional steps to reduce IRRs): 
• 
100 mg methylprednisolone or 10-20 mg dexamethasone (or an equivalent) approximately 
30-60 minutes prior to each infusion; 
diphenhydramine approximately 30-60 minutes prior to each infusion; 
• 
In addition, premedication with an antipyretic (e.g. paracetamol) may also be considered. 
Posology 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First and second doses 
The first dose is administered as a 150 mg intravenous infusion (first infusion), followed by a 450 mg 
intravenous infusion (second infusion) 2 weeks later (see Table 1). 
Subsequent doses 
Subsequent doses are administered as a single 450 mg intravenous infusion every 24 weeks (Table 1). 
The first subsequent dose of 450 mg should be administered 24 weeks after the first infusion. 
A minimal interval of 5 months should be maintained between each dose of ublituximab. 
Infusion adjustments in case of IRRs 
Life-threatening IRRs 
If there are signs of a life-threatening or disabling IRR during an infusion, the infusion must be 
stopped immediately and the patient should receive appropriate treatment. Treatment must be 
permanently discontinued in these patients (see section 4.4). 
Severe IRRs 
If a patient experiences a severe IRR, the infusion should be interrupted immediately and the patient 
should receive symptomatic treatment. The infusion should be restarted only after all symptoms have 
resolved. When restarting, the infusion rate should be at half of the infusion rate at the time of onset of 
the IRR. If the rate is tolerated, the rate should be increased as described in Table 1. 
Mild to moderate IRRs 
If a patient experiences a mild to moderate IRR, the infusion rate should be reduced to half the rate at 
the onset of the event. This reduced rate should be maintained for at least 30 minutes. If the reduced 
rate is tolerated, the infusion rate may then be increased as described in Table 1. 
Dose modifications during treatment 
No dose reductions are recommended. In case of dose interruption or infusion rate reduction due to 
IRR, the total duration of the infusion would be increased, but not the total dose.  
Delayed or missed doses 
If an infusion is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible; administration after a delayed or 
missed dose should not wait until the next planned dose. The treatment interval of 24 weeks (with a 
minimum of 5 months) should be maintained between doses (see Table 1). 
Special populations 
Adults over 55 years old and elderly 
Based on the limited data available (see section 5.1 and section 5.2), no dose adjustment is considered 
necessary in patients over 55 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is expected to be required for patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No dose adjustment is expected to be required for patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Briumvi in children and adolescents aged 0 to 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
After dilution, Briumvi is administered as an intravenous infusion through a dedicated line. Infusions 
should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus. 
Table 1: Dose and schedule 
First Infusion 
Amount and 
volume 
150 mg in 250 ml 
Infusion rate 
Duration1 
•  Start at 10 ml per hour for the 
4 hours 
first 30 minutes 
• 
• 
• 
Increase to 20 ml per hour for 
the next 30 minutes 
Increase to 35 ml per hour for 
the next hour 
Increase to 100 ml per hour for 
the remaining 2 hours 
Second Infusion 
(2 weeks later) 
Subsequent 
Infusions 
(once every 
24 weeks)2 
450 mg in 250 ml 
•  Start at 100 ml per hour for the 
1 hour 
first 30 minutes 
• 
Increase to 400 ml per hour for 
the remaining 30 minutes 
450 mg in 250 ml 
•  Start at 100 ml per hour for the 
1 hour 
first 30 minutes 
• 
Increase to 400 ml per hour for 
the remaining 30 minutes 
1Infusion duration may take longer if the infusion is interrupted or slowed. 
2The first subsequent infusion should be administered 24 weeks after the first infusion. 
Solutions for intravenous infusion are prepared by dilution of the medicinal product into an infusion 
bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, to a final concentration of 
0.6 mg/ml for the first infusion and 1.8 mg/ml for the second infusion and all subsequent infusions. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3.  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Severe active infection (see section 4.4). 
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state (see section 4.4). 
Known active malignancies. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4.  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion-related reactions (IRRs) 
Symptoms of IRR may include pyrexia, chills, headache, tachycardia, nausea, abdominal pain, throat 
irritation, erythema, and anaphylactic reaction (see section 4.8). 
Patients should premedicate with a corticosteroid and an antihistamine to reduce the frequency and 
severity of IRRs (see section 4.2). The addition of an antipyretic (e.g., paracetamol) may also be 
considered. Patients treated with ublituximab should be observed during infusions. Patients should be 
monitored for at least one hour after the completion of the first two infusions. Subsequent infusions do 
not require monitoring post-infusion unless IRR and/or hypersensitivity has been observed. Physicians 
should inform patients that IRRs can occur up to 24 hours after the infusion. 
For guidance regarding posology for patients experiencing IRR symptoms, see section 4.2. 
Infection 
Administration must be delayed in patients with an active infection until the infection is resolved. 
It is recommended to verify the patient’s immune status before dosing since severely 
immunocompromised patients (e.g. significant neutropenia or lymphopenia) should not be treated (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.8). 
Ublituximab has the potential for serious, sometimes life-threatening or fatal, infections (see section 
4.8). 
Most of the serious infections that occurred in controlled clinical trials in relapsing forms of multiple 
sclerosis (RMS) resolved. There were 3 infection-related deaths that occurred, all in patients treated 
with ublituximab; the infections leading to death were post-measles encephalitis, pneumonia, and post-
operative salpingitis following an ectopic pregnancy. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
John Cunningham virus (JCV) infection resulting in PML has been observed very rarely in patients 
treated with anti-CD20 antibodies and mostly associated with risk factors (e.g., patient population, 
lymphopenia, advanced age, polytherapy with immunosuppressants). 
Physicians should be vigilant for the early signs and symptoms of PML, which can include any new 
onset, or worsening of neurological signs or symptoms, as these can be similar to MS disease. 
If PML is suspected, dosing with ublituximab must be withheld. Evaluation including Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan preferably with contrast (compared with pre-treatment MRI), 
confirmatory cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) testing for JCV Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and repeat 
neurological assessments, should be considered. If PML is confirmed, treatment must be discontinued 
permanently. 
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation 
HBV reactivation, in some cases resulting in fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure and death, has been 
observed in patients treated with anti-CD20 antibodies. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HBV screening should be performed in all patients before initiation of treatment as per local 
guidelines. Patients with active HBV (i.e. an active infection confirmed by positive results for HBsAg 
and anti HB testing) should not be treated with ublituximab. Patients with positive serology (i.e. 
negative for HBsAg and positive for HB core antibody (HBcAb +) or who are carriers of HBV 
(positive for surface antigen, HBsAg+) should consult liver disease experts before starting the 
treatment and should be monitored and managed following local medical standards to prevent hepatitis 
B reactivation. 
Vaccinations 
The safety of immunisation with live or live-attenuated vaccines, during or following therapy has not 
been studied and vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during 
treatment and not until B-cell repletion (see section 5.1). 
All immunisations should be administered according to immunisation guidelines at least 4 weeks prior 
to treatment initiation for live or live-attenuated vaccines and, whenever possible, at least 2 weeks 
prior to treatment initiation for inactivated vaccines. 
Vaccination of infants born to mothers treated with ublituximab during pregnancy 
In infants of mothers treated with ublituximab during pregnancy, live or live-attenuated vaccines 
should not be administered before the recovery of B-cell counts has been confirmed. Depletion of B 
cells in these infants may increase the risks associated with live or live-attenuated vaccines. Measuring 
CD19-positive B-cell levels, in neonates and infants, prior to vaccination is recommended. 
Inactivated vaccines may be administered as indicated prior to recovery from B-cell depletion. 
However, assessment of vaccine immune responses, including consultation with a qualified specialist, 
should be considered to determine whether a protective immune response was mounted. 
The safety and timing of vaccination should be discussed with the infant’s physician (see section 4.6). 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5.  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Vaccinations 
The safety of immunisation with live or live-attenuated vaccines following ublituximab therapy has 
not been studied, and vaccination with live-attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during 
treatment or until B-cell repletion (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Immunosuppressants 
It is not recommended to use other immunosuppressives concomitantly with ublituximab except 
corticosteroids for symptomatic treatment of relapses. 
When initiating Briumvi after an immunosuppressive therapy, or when initiating an 
immunosuppressive therapy after Briumvi, the potential for overlapping pharmacodynamic effects 
should be taken into consideration (see section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic effects). Caution should be 
exercised when prescribing Briumvi taking into consideration the pharmacodynamics of other disease 
modifying MS therapies. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6.  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of child-bearing potential 
Women of child-bearing potential should use effective contraception while receiving ublituximab and 
for at least 4 months after the last infusion (see below and sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Pregnancy 
Ublituximab is a monoclonal antibody of an immunoglobulin G1 subtype and immunoglobulins are 
known to cross the placental barrier. 
There is a limited amount of data from the use of ublituximab in pregnant women. Postponing 
vaccination with live or live-attenuated vaccines should be considered for neonates and infants born to 
mothers who have been exposed to ublituximab during pregnancy. No B-cell count data have been 
collected in neonates and infants exposed to ublituximab and the potential duration of B-cell depletion 
in neonates and infants is unknown (see section 4.4). 
Transient peripheral B-cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to 
mothers exposed to other anti-CD20 antibodies during pregnancy. 
Reproductive toxicity was observed in a pre- and post-natal development studies (see section 5.3). 
Briumvi should be avoided during pregnancy unless the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the 
potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether ublituximab is excreted in human milk. Human IgGs are known to be excreted 
in breast milk during the first few days after birth, which decreases to low concentrations soon 
afterwards; consequently, a risk to the breast-fed infant cannot be excluded during this short period. 
Afterwards, ublituximab could be used during breast-feeding if clinically needed. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data reveal no special hazard on reproductive organs based on studies of general toxicity in 
cynomolgus monkeys (see section 5.3). 
4.7.  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Briumvi has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8.  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most important and frequently reported adverse reactions are IRRs (45.3%) and infections 
(55.8%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 2 summarises the adverse reactions that have been reported in association with the use of 
ublituximab. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each System Organ Class and frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing frequency. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Adverse reactions 
MedDRA 
System Organ Class 
(SOC) 
Very common 
Common 
Infections and infestations  Upper respiratory tract 
infections,  
Respiratory tract infections 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Infusion-related reactions1 
Herpes virus infections,  
Lower respiratory tract 
infections 
Neutropenia 
Pain in extremity 
1 Symptoms reported as IRRs within 24 hours of the infusion are described below in ‘Infusion-related 
reactions’. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infusion-related reactions 
In active-controlled RMS trials, symptoms of IRR included pyrexia, chills, headache, tachycardia, 
nausea, abdominal pain, throat irritation, erythema, and anaphylactic reaction. IRRs were primarily 
mild to moderate in severity. The incidence of IRRs in patients treated with ublituximab was 45.3%, 
with the highest incidence with the first infusion (40.4%). The incidence of IRRs was 8.6% with the 
second infusion and decreased thereafter. 1.7% of patients experienced IRRs that led to treatment 
interruption. 0.4% of patients experienced IRRs that were serious. There were no fatal IRRs. 
Infection 
In active-controlled RMS trials, the proportion of patients who experienced a serious infection with 
ublituximab was 5.0% compared to 2.9% in the teriflunomide group. The overall rate of infections in 
patients treated with ublituximab was similar to patients who were treated with teriflunomide (55.8% 
vs 54.4%, respectively). The infections were predominantly mild to moderate in severity and consisted 
primarily of respiratory tract-related infections (mostly nasopharyngitis and bronchitis). Upper 
respiratory tract infections occurred in 33.6% of ublituximab treated patients and 31.8% teriflunomide 
treated patients. Lower respiratory tract infections occurred in 5.1% of ublituximab treated patients and 
4.0% of teriflunomide treated patients. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
Immunoglobulins decrease 
In active-controlled RMS trials, treatment with ublituximab resulted in a decrease in total 
immunoglobulins over the controlled period of the studies, mainly driven by the reduction in IgM. The 
proportion of patients at baseline reporting IgG, IgA, and IgM below the lower limit of normal (LLN) 
in ublituximab treated patients was 6.3%, 0.6%, and 1.1%, respectively. Following treatment, the 
proportion of ublituximab treated patients reporting IgG, IgA, and IgM below the LLN at 96 weeks 
was 6.5%, 2.4%, and 20.9%, respectively. 
Lymphocytes 
In active controlled RMS trials, a transient decrease in lymphocytes was observed in 91% of 
ublituximab patients at Week 1. The majority of lymphocyte decreases were observed only once for a 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
given patient treated with ublituximab and resolved by Week 2 at which time only 7.8% of the patients 
reported a decrease in lymphocytes. All decreases in lymphocytes were Grade 1 (<LLN-800 
cells/mm3) and 2 (between 500 and 800 cells/mm3) in severity. 
Neutrophils counts 
In active-controlled RMS trials, a decrease in neutrophils counts < LLN was observed in 15% of 
ublituximab patients compared with 22% of patients treated with teriflunomide. The majority of the 
neutrophil decreases were transient (only observed once for a given patient treated with ublituximab) 
and were Grade 1 (between <LLN and 1500 cells/mm3) and 2 (between 1000 and 1500 cells/mm3) in 
severity. Approximately 1% of the patients in the ublituximab group had Grade 4 neutropenia vs. 0% 
in the teriflunomide group. One ublituximab treated patient with Grade 4 (< 500 cells/mm3) 
neutropenia required specific treatment with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9.  Overdose 
There is limited clinical trial experience in RMS with doses higher than the approved intravenous dose 
of ublituximab. The highest dose tested to date in RMS patients is 600 mg (Phase II dose finding study 
in RMS). The adverse reactions were consistent with the safety profile for ublituximab in the pivotal 
clinical studies. 
There is no specific antidote in the event of an overdose; the infusion should be immediately 
interrupted and the patient should be observed for IRRs (see section 4.4). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1.  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AG14. 
Mechanism of action 
Ublituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody that selectively targets CD20-expressing cells. 
CD20 is a cell surface antigen found on pre-B cells, mature and memory B cells but not expressed on 
lymphoid stem cells and plasma cells. The binding of ublituximab to CD20 induces lysis of CD20+ B 
cells primarily through antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and, to a lesser extent 
through complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). Due to a specific glycosylation pattern of its Fc 
region, ublituximab displays an increased affinity for the FcγRIIIa (CD16) and antibody-dependent 
cellular cytolysis against B cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Treatment with ublituximab leads to rapid depletion of CD19+ cells in blood by the first day post 
treatment as an expected pharmacologic effect. This was sustained throughout the treatment period. 
For the B cell counts, CD19 is used, as the presence of ublituximab interferes with the recognition of 
CD20 by the assay. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the Phase III studies, treatment with ublituximab resulted in a median reduction of 97% of CD19+ B 
cell counts from baseline values after the first infusion in both studies and remained depleted at this 
level for the duration of dosing. 
In the Phase III studies, between each dose of ublituximab, 5.5% of patients showed B-cell repletion 
(> lower limit of normal (LLN) or baseline) at least at one time point. 
The longest follow up time after the last ublituximab infusion in the Phase III studies indicates that the 
median time to B-cell repletion (return to baseline/LLN whichever occurred first) was 70 weeks. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of ublituximab were evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, 
active comparator-controlled clinical trials (ULTIMATE I and ULTIMATE II), with identical design, 
in patients with RMS (in accordance with McDonald criteria 2010) and evidence of disease activity (as 
defined by clinical or imaging features) within the previous two years. Study design and baseline 
characteristics of the study population are summarised in Table 3. 
Demographic and baseline characteristics were well balanced across the two treatment groups. Patients 
were to receive either: (1) ublituximab 450 mg plus oral placebo; or (2) teriflunomide 14 mg plus 
placebo infusion. Oral treatment (active or placebo) was to start on Week 1 Day 1 and treatment was to 
continue until the last day of Week 95. Infusions (active or placebo) were to begin on Week 1 Day 1 at 
150 mg then increase to 450 mg on Week 3 Day 15, and continue at 450 mg on Week 24, Week 48, 
and Week 72. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Study design, demographic and baseline characteristics 
Study Name 
Study 1 
(ULTIMATE I) 
(n=545) 
Study design 
Study 2 
(ULTIMATE II) 
(n=544) 
Study population 
Patients with RMS 
Disease history at screening 
At least two relapses within the prior two years, one relapse within 
the prior year, or the presence of a T1 gadolinium (Gd)-enhancing 
lesion in the previous year; EDSS* between 0 and 5.5, inclusive 
Study duration 
Treatment groups 
Baseline characteristics 
Mean age (years) 
Age range (years) at 
inclusion 
Gender distribution (% 
male/% female)  
Mean/median disease 
duration since diagnosis 
(years) 
Patients naïve to previous 
Disease Modifying 
Treatment (%)** 
Mean number of relapses in 
the last year 
Mean EDSS* 
Proportion of patients with 
Gd-enhancing T1 lesions 
2 years 
Group A: Ublituximab 450 mg IV Infusion + Oral Placebo 
Group B: Teriflunomide 14 mg Oral + IV Infusion Placebo 
Ublituximab 
450 mg 
(n=271) 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
(n=274) 
Ublituximab 
450 mg 
(n=272) 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
(n=272) 
36.2 
18 – 55 
37.0 
18 – 55 
34.5 
18 – 55 
36.2 
18 – 55 
38.7/61.3 
34.7/65.3 
34.6/65.4 
35.3/64.7 
4.9/2.9 
4.5/2.5 
5.0/3.2 
5.0/3.7 
40.2 
40.9 
49.3 
43.0 
1.3 
2.96 
43.2 
1.4 
2.89 
42.3 
1.3 
2.80 
51.8 
1.2 
2.96 
49.6 
*Expanded Disability Status Scale 
**Patients who had not been treated with any RMS medication in the 5 years prior to randomization. 
Key clinical and MRI efficacy results are presented in Table 4. 
The results of these studies show that ublituximab significantly suppressed relapses and sub-clinical 
disease activity measured by MRI compared with oral teriflunomide 14 mg. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Key clinical and MRI endpoints from studies ULTIMATE I and ULTIMATE II  
Endpoints 
Clinical Endpoints1 
Annualised Relapse Rate (ARR) 
(primary endpoint) 
Study 1 
(ULTIMATE I) 
Study 2 
(ULTIMATE II) 
Ublituximab 
450 mg 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
Ublituximab 
450 mg 
Teriflunomide 
14 mg 
0.076 
0.188 
0.091 
0.178 
Relative Reduction  
59% (p < 0.0001) 
49% (p = 0.0022) 
Proportion of patients 
Relapse-free at 96 weeks 
Proportion of patients with 
12-week Confirmed Disability 
Progression2,3 
Risk Reduction (Pooled 
Analysis)4 
Proportion of patients with No 
Evidence of Disease Activity 
(NEDA) 
MRI Endpoints5 
Mean number of T1 
Gd-enhancing lesions per MRI 
scan6 
Relative Reduction 
Mean number of new and/or 
enlarging T2 hyperintense 
lesions per MRI scan6 
Relative Reduction 
86% 
74% 
87% 
72% 
5.2% ublituximab vs. 5.9% teriflunomide 
16% (p = 0.5099) 
45% 
15% 
43% 
11% 
(p < 0.0001)7 
(p < 0.0001)7 
0.016 
0.491 
0.009 
0.250 
97% (p < 0.0001) 
97% (p < 0.0001) 
0.213 
2.789 
0.282 
2.831 
92% (p < 0.0001) 
90% (p < 0.0001) 
1Based on Modified Intent to Treat (mITT) Population, defined as all randomised patients who 
received at least one infusion of study medication and had one baseline and post-baseline efficacy 
assessment. ULTIMATE I: ublituximab (N=271), teriflunomide (N=274). ULTIMATE II: ublituximab 
(N=272), teriflunomide (N=272). 
2 Data prospectively pooled from Study 1 and Study 2: ublituximab (N=543), teriflunomide (N=546). 
3Defined as an increase of 1.0 point or more from the baseline EDSS score for patients with baseline 
score of 5.5 or less, or 0.5 or more when the baseline score is greater than 5.5, Kaplan-Meier estimates 
at Week 96. 
4Based on Hazard Ratio. 
5Based on MRI-mITT population (mITT patients who have baseline and post-baseline MRI). 
ULTIMATE I: ublituximab (N=265), teriflunomide (N=270). ULTIMATE II: ublituximab (N=272), 
teriflunomide (N=267). 
6At Week 96. 
7Nominal p-value. 
Immunogenicity 
Serum samples from patients with RMS were tested for antibodies to ublituximab during the treatment 
period. 81% of ublituximab-treated patients tested positive for anti-drug antibodies (ADA) at one or 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more timepoints during the 96-week treatment period in clinical efficacy and safety trials. ADA was 
generally transient (at Week 96, 18.5% of patients were positive for ADA). Neutralising activity was 
detected in 6.4% of ublituximab-treated patients. The presence of ADA or neutralising antibodies had 
no observable impact on the safety or efficacy of ublituximab. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
ublituximab in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of multiple sclerosis 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2.  Pharmacokinetic properties 
In the RMS studies, the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ublituximab following repeated intravenous 
infusions was described by a two-compartment model with first-order elimination and with PK 
parameters typical for an IgG1 monoclonal antibody. Ublituximab exposures increased in a 
dose-proportional manner (i.e., linear pharmacokinetics) over the dose range of 150 to 450 mg in 
patients with RMS. Administration of 150 mg ublituximab by intravenous infusion on Day 1 followed 
by 450 mg ublituximab by intravenous infusion over one hour on Day 15, Week 24 and Week 48 led 
to a geometric mean steady-state AUC of 3000 μg/ml per day (CV=28%) and a mean maximum 
concentration of 139 μg/ml (CV=15%). 
Absorption 
Ublituximab is administered as an intravenous infusion. There have been no studies performed with 
other routes of administration. 
Distribution 
In the population pharmacokinetic analysis of ublituximab, the central volume of distribution was 
estimated to be 3.18 L and the peripheral volume of distribution was estimated to be 3.6 L. 
Biotransformation 
The metabolism of ublituximab has not been directly studied, as antibodies are cleared principally by 
catabolism (i.e. breakdown into peptides and amino acids). 
Elimination 
Following intravenous infusion of 150 mg ublituximab on Day 1 followed by 450 mg ublituximab on 
Day 15, Week 24 and Week 48, the mean terminal elimination half-life of ublituximab was estimated 
to be 22 days. 
Special populations 
Paediatrics 
No studies have been conducted to investigate the pharmacokinetics of ublituximab in children and 
adolescents < 18 years of age. 
Adults over 55 years old 
There are no dedicated PK studies of ublituximab in patients ≥ 55 years due to limited clinical 
experience (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No specific studies of ublituximab in patients with renal impairment have been performed. 
Patients with mild renal impairment were included in the clinical studies. There is no experience in 
patients with moderate and severe renal impairment. However, as ublituximab is not excreted via 
urine, it is not expected that patients with renal impairment require dose modification. 
Hepatic impairment 
No specific studies of ublituximab in patients with hepatic impairment have been performed. 
Since hepatic metabolism of monoclonal antibodies such as ublituximab is negligible, hepatic 
impairment is not expected to impact its pharmacokinetics. Therefore, it is not expected that patients 
with hepatic impairment require dose modification. 
5.3.  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on repeated dose toxicity studies and in 
vitro mutagenicity studies. Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with ublituximab. 
In an enhanced pre- and post-natal development study, pregnant cynomolgus monkeys were 
administered weekly intravenous doses of 30 mg/kg ublituximab (corresponding to AUC 26 times the 
AUC in patients at the maximum recommended dose) during either the first, second or third trimester 
of pregnancy, which resulted in maternal moribundity and foetal loss. Pathological observations in 
exposed dams involved multiple organ systems (thrombi in multiple organs, vascular necrosis in the 
intestine and liver, inflammation and oedema in the lungs and heart) as well as the placenta and these 
findings were consistent with immune-mediated adverse effects secondary to immunogenicity. 
Infant abnormalities were absent in dams exposed during the first trimester of pregnancy. 
Ublituximab-related external, visceral and skeletal abnormalities were noted in two infants from dams 
treated during the second trimester of pregnancy. Histopathology evaluations revealed minimal to 
moderate degeneration/necrosis in the brain. Foetal findings included contractures and abnormal 
flexion of multiple limbs and tail, shortened mandible, elongate calvarium, enlargement of ears, and/or 
craniomandibular abnormalities which were attributed to brain necrosis. These findings were 
potentially related to the immunogenic response of ublituximab in the mothers, which affected the 
placental exchange of nutrients. 
The presence of ublituximab in mother’s milk was not assessed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1.  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium citrate (E 331) 
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) (E 507) 
Water for injections 
6.2.  Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3.  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 years 
Diluted solution for intravenous infusion 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C and 
subsequently for 8 hours at room temperature. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C and subsequently for 8 hours at room 
temperature, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4.  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Do not shake or freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5.  Nature and contents of container 
6 ml concentrate in a glass vial. Pack size of 1 or 3 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6.  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for dilution 
Briumvi should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique. Do not shake the 
vial. 
The product is intended for single use only. 
Do not use the solution if it is discoloured or if it contains foreign particulate matter. 
This medicinal product must be diluted before administration. The solution for intravenous 
administration is prepared by dilution of the product into an infusion bag containing isotonic sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection. 
No incompatibilities between ublituximab and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or polyolefin (PO) bags and 
intravenous administration sets have been observed. 
For the first infusion, dilute one vial of product into the infusion bag (150 mg / 250 ml) to a final 
concentration of approximately 0.6 mg/ml. 
For subsequent infusions, dilute three vials of product into the infusion bag (450 mg / 250 ml) to a 
final concentration of approximately 1.8 mg/ml. 
Prior to the start of the intravenous infusion, the content of the infusion bag should be at room 
temperature (20°C – 25°C). 
In case an intravenous infusion cannot be completed the same day, the remaining solution should be 
discarded. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Avda. Barcelona 69 
08970 Sant Joan Despí – Barcelona 
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1730/001 
EU/1/23/1730/002 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 31 May 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Samsung Biologics Co., Ltd. 
300 Songo bio-daero Yeonsu-gu 
Incheon, South Korea 21987 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare 
Block 7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen 
Co. Meath 
Ireland 
K32 YD60 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Avda. Barcelona 69 
08970 Sant Joan Despí  
Barcelona - Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
19 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Briumvi 150 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
ublituximab 
150 mg/6ml 
For intravenous use after dilution  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial contains 150 mg ublituximab in 6 ml (25 mg/ml) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium citrate 
Polysorbate 80 
Hydrochloric acid 
Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
150 mg/6 ml 
1 vial 
3 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
Do not shake the vial. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Avda. Barcelona 69 
08970 Sant Joan Despí – Barcelona 
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1730/001 (1-vial pack) 
EU/1/23/1730/002 (3-vials pack) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTION ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
 SN 
NN 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Briumvi 150 mg concentrate for solution for infusion sterile concentrate 
ublituximab 
For intravenous IV use after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
150 mg/6 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Briumvi 150 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
ublituximab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Briumvi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Briumvi 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Briumvi is given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Briumvi 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Briumvi is and what it is used for 
What Briumvi is 
Briumvi contains the active substance ublituximab. It is a type of protein called a monoclonal 
antibody. Antibodies work by attaching to specific targets in your body. 
What Briumvi is used for 
Briumvi is used to treat adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS), where the patient has 
flare-ups (relapses) followed by periods with milder or no symptoms. 
What is Multiple Sclerosis 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) affects the central nervous system, especially the nerves in the brain and 
spinal cord. In MS, white blood cells called B cells that are part of the immune system (the body’s 
defence system) work incorrectly and attack a protective layer (called myelin sheath) around nerve 
cells, causing inflammation and damage. Breakdown of the myelin sheath stops the nerves from 
working properly and causes symptoms of MS. Symptoms of MS depend on which part of the central 
nervous system is affected and can include problems with walking and balance, muscle weakness, 
numbness, double vision and blurring, poor coordination and bladder problems. 
In relapsing forms of MS, the patient has repeated attacks of symptoms (relapses) that can appear 
suddenly within a few hours, or slowly over several days. The symptoms disappear or improve 
between relapses but damage may build up and lead to permanent disability. 
How does Briumvi work? 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Briumvi works by attaching to a target called CD20 on the surface of B cells. B cells are a type of 
white blood cell which are part of the immune system. In multiple sclerosis, the immune system 
attacks the protective layer around nerve cells. B cells are involved in this process. Briumvi targets and 
removes the B cells and thereby reduces the chance of a relapse, relieves symptoms and slows down 
the progression of the disease. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Briumvi 
You must not be given Briumvi: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to ublituximab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6), 
if you are suffering from a severe infection, 
if you have been told that you have severe problems with your immune system, or 
if you have cancer. 
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor before you are given Briumvi. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before you are given Briumvi if any of the following apply to you. Your doctor 
may decide to delay your treatment with Briumvi, or may decide you cannot receive Briumvi if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
you have an infection. Your doctor will wait until the infection is resolved before giving you 
Briumvi. 
you have ever had hepatitis B or are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus. This is because medicines 
like Briumvi can cause the hepatitis B virus to become active again. Before your Briumvi 
treatment, your doctor will check if you are at risk of hepatitis B infection. Patients who have 
had hepatitis B or are carriers of the hepatitis B virus will have a blood test and will be 
monitored by a doctor for signs of hepatitis B infection. 
you have recently been given any vaccine or might be given a vaccine in the near future. 
you have cancer or if you have had cancer in the past. Your doctor may decide to delay your 
treatment. 
Infusion-related reactions 
• 
• 
The most common side effect of Briumvi treatment are infusion-related reactions, types of 
allergic reactions that develop during or shortly after a medicine is given. These can be serious.  
Symptoms of an infusion-related reaction may include: 
itchy skin 
hives 
redness of the face or skin 
throat irritation 
trouble breathing 
swelling of tongue or throat 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
−  wheezing 
− 
chills 
− 
fever 
− 
headache 
− 
dizziness 
− 
feeling faint 
− 
nausea 
− 
abdominal (belly) pain 
− 
rapid heartbeat. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you have or think you may have any 
infusion-related reaction. Infusion-related reactions can happen during the infusion or up to 
24 hours after the infusion. 
To reduce the risk of infusion-related reaction, your doctor will give you other medicines before 
each infusion of Briumvi (see section 3) and you will be closely monitored during the infusion. 
If you get an infusion reaction, your doctor may need to stop or slow down the rate of infusion. 
Infections 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fever or chills 
cough that does not go away 
herpes (such as cold sore, shingles or genital sores) 
Talk to your doctor before you are given Briumvi if you have or think you have an infection. 
Your doctor will wait until the infection is resolved before giving you Briumvi. 
You might get infections more easily with Briumvi. This is because the immune cells that 
Briumvi targets also help to fight infection.  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you have an infection or any of the following 
signs of infection during or after Briumvi treatment: 
− 
− 
− 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you think your MS is getting worse or if you 
notice any new symptoms. This is because of a very rare and life-threatening brain infection, 
called ‘progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy’ (PML), which can cause symptoms similar 
to those of MS. PML can occur in patients taking medicines like Briumvi, and other medicines 
used for treating MS. 
Tell your partner or carer about your Briumvi treatment. They might notice symptoms of 
PML that you do not, such as memory lapses, trouble thinking, difficulty walking, sight loss, 
changes in the way you talk, which your doctor may need to investigate. 
Vaccinations 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have recently been given any vaccine or might be given a vaccine in the 
near future. 
Your doctor will check if you need any vaccinations before you start your treatment with 
Briumvi. You should receive a type of vaccine called a live or live attenuated vaccines at least 
4 weeks before you start treatment with Briumvi. While you are being treated with Briumvi, you 
should not be given live or live attenuated vaccines until your doctor tells you that your immune 
system is no longer weakened.  
•  When possible, you should receive other types of vaccine called inactivated vaccines at least 
2 weeks before you start treatment with Briumvi. If you would like to receive any inactivated 
vaccines while you are being treated with Briumvi, talk to your doctor.  
Children and adolescents 
Briumvi is not intended to be used in children and adolescents under 18 years old. This is because it 
has not yet been studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Briumvi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. In particular tell your doctor:  
• 
if you are taking, have recently taken or might take medicines that affect your immune system, 
such as chemotherapy, immunosuppressants (except corticosteroids) or other medicines used to 
treat MS. This is because these may have an added effect on the immune system.  
if you plan to have any vaccinations (see “Warnings and Precautions” above). 
• 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor before you are given 
Briumvi. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor before being given Briumvi if you are pregnant, think that you might be 
pregnant or are planning to have a baby. This is because Briumvi may cross the placenta and 
affect your baby. 
Do not use Briumvi if you are pregnant unless you have discussed this with your doctor. Your 
doctor will consider the benefit of you taking Briumvi against the risk to your baby. 
If you have a baby and you received Briumvi during your pregnancy, it is important to tell your 
baby’s doctor about receiving Briumvi so they can recommend when your baby should get 
vaccinated. 
It is not known whether Briumvi passes into your breast milk. Talk to your doctor about the best 
way to feed your baby if you take Briumvi.  
Contraception for women 
If you are able to become pregnant (conceive), you must use contraception: 
• 
• 
during treatment with Briumvi and 
for at least 4 months after your last infusion of Briumvi. 
Driving and using machines 
Briumvi is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Briumvi contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free.’ 
3.  How Briumvi is given 
Briumvi will be given to you by a doctor or nurse who is experienced in the use of this treatment. They 
will watch you closely while you are being given this medicine. This is in case you get any side 
effects. You will always be given Briumvi as a drip (intravenous infusion).  
Medicines you will have before you are given Briumvi 
Before you are given Briumvi, you will receive other medicines to prevent or reduce possible side 
effects such as infusion-related reactions (see sections 2 and 4 for information about infusion-related 
reactions). 
You will receive a corticosteroid and an antihistamine before each infusion and you may also receive 
other medicines to reduce fever. 
How much and how often you will be given Briumvi 
• 
• 
• 
The first dose of Briumvi will be 150 mg. This infusion will last 4 hours. 
The second dose of Briumvi will be 450 mg given 2 weeks after the first dose. This infusion will 
last 1 hour.  
Subsequent dosing of Briumvi will be 450 mg given 24 weeks after the first dose and every 
24 weeks thereafter. These infusions will last 1 hour.  
How Briumvi is given 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Briumvi will be given to you by a doctor or a nurse. Briumvi must be diluted before it is given 
to you. Dilution will be done by a healthcare professional. It will be given as an infusion into a 
vein (intravenous infusion). 
You will be closely monitored while you are being given Briumvi and for at least 1 hour after 
the first two infusions have been given. This is in case you have any side effects such as 
infusion-related reactions. The infusion may be slowed, temporarily stopped, or permanently 
stopped if you have an infusion-related reaction, depending on how serious it is (see sections 2 
and 4 for information about infusion-related reactions). 
If you miss an infusion of Briumvi 
• 
• 
If you miss an infusion of Briumvi, talk to your doctor to arrange to have it as soon as possible. 
Do not wait until your next planned infusion. 
To get the full benefit of Briumvi, it is important that you receive each infusion when it is due. 
If you stop Briumvi treatment 
• 
• 
• 
It is important to continue your treatment for as long as you and your doctor decide that it is 
helping you. 
Some side effects can be related to having low levels of B cells. After you stop Briumvi 
treatment, you may still experience such side effects until your B cells return to normal levels.  
Before your start any other medicines, tell your doctor when you had your last Briumvi infusion.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects have been reported with Briumvi: 
Serious side effects 
Infusion-related reactions 
• 
• 
Infusion-related reactions are the most common side effect of Briumvi treatment (very common: 
may affect more than 1 in 10 people). In most cases these are mild reactions, but some serious 
reactions can happen. 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you experience any signs or symptoms of an 
infusion-related reaction during the infusion or up to 24 hours after the infusion. 
Symptoms can include, but are not limited to:  
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
itchy skin 
hives 
redness of the face or skin 
throat irritation 
trouble breathing 
swelling of tongue or throat 
wheezing 
chills 
fever 
headache 
dizziness 
feeling faint 
nausea 
abdominal (belly) pain 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
rapid heartbeat. 
− 
If you have an infusion-related reaction, you will be given medicines to treat it and the infusion 
may need to be slowed down or stopped. When the reaction has stopped, the infusion may be 
continued. If the infusion-related reaction is life-threatening, your doctor will permanently stop 
your treatment with Briumvi. 
Infections 
• 
• 
You might get infections more easily with Briumvi. Some of them might be serious. The 
following infections have been seen in patients treated with Briumvi in MS:  
− 
upper respiratory tract infections (nose and throat infections) 
respiratory tract infections (infection of the airways) 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
− 
− 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
− 
lower respiratory tract infections (infection of the lungs such as bronchitis or 
− 
pneumonia) 
− 
herpes infections (cold sore or shingles)  
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you notice any of these signs of infection: 
− 
− 
− 
fever or chills 
cough which does not go away 
herpes (such as cold sore, shingles or genital sores) 
Your doctor will wait until the infection is resolved before giving you Briumvi. 
Other side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
• 
• 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell) 
pain in extremity (arms or legs) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Briumvi 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Briumvi will be stored by the healthcare professionals at the hospital or clinic under the following 
conditions: 
• 
This medicine is not to be used after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the 
vial label after ‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
This medicine is to be stored in a refrigerator (2°C  - 8°C). It is not to be frozen. The vial is to be 
kept in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
• 
It is recommended that the product is used immediately after dilution. If not used immediately, in-use 
storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the healthcare professional and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C and subsequently 8 hours at room 
temperature.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. These measures will help to protect the 
environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Briumvi contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is ublituximab. Each vial contains 150 mg of ublituximab in 6 ml at a 
concentration of 25 mg/ml.  
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, sodium citrate, polysorbate 80, hydrochloric acid and 
water for injections. 
What Briumvi looks like and contents of the pack 
• 
• 
• 
Briumvi is a clear to opalescent, and colourless to slightly yellow solution. 
It is supplied as a concentrate for solution for infusion. 
This medicine is available in packs containing 1 or 3 vials (glass vials of 6 ml concentrate). Not 
all pack sizes may be marketed 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Avda. Barcelona 69 
08970 Sant Joan Despí – Barcelona 
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare 
Block 7, City North Business Campus 
Stamullen 
Co. Meath  
Ireland 
K32 YD60 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Avda. Barcelona 69 
08970 Sant Joan Despí  
Barcelona - Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Neuraxpharm Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 732 56 95 
България 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Teл.: +34 93 475 96 00 
Česká republika 
Neuraxpharm Bohemia s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 739 232 258 
Lietuva 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel:+34 93 475 96 00 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Neuraxpharm France 
Tél/Tel: +32 474 62 24 24 
Magyarország 
Neuraxpharm Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +3630 464 6834 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Neuraxpharm Sweden AB 
Tlf: +46 (0)8 30 91 41 
(Sverige) 
Malta 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel.:+34 93 475 96 00 
Deutschland 
neuraxpharm Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel: +49 2173 1060 0 
Nederland 
Neuraxpharm Netherlands B.V. 
Tel.: +31 70 208 5211 
Eesti 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
Ελλάδα 
Brain Therapeutics PC 
Τηλ: +302109931458 
España 
Neuraxpharm Spain, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
France 
Neuraxpharm France 
Tél: +33 1.53.62.42.90 
Norge 
Neuraxpharm Sweden AB 
Tlf:+46 (0)8 30 91 41 
(Sverige) 
Österreich 
Neuraxpharm Austria GmbH 
Tel.:+ 43 (0) 2236 320038 
Polska 
Neuraxpharm Polska Sp. z.o.o. 
Tel.: +48 783 423 453 
Portugal 
Neuraxpharm Portugal, Unipessoal Lda 
Tel: +351 910 259 536 
Hrvatska 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
România 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
Ireland 
Neuraxpharm Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +353 (0)1 428 7777   
Ísland 
Neuraxpharm Sweden AB 
Sími: +46 (0)8 30 91 41 
(Svíþjóð) 
Italia 
Neuraxpharm Italy S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0736 980619 
Κύπρος 
Brain Therapeutics PC 
Τηλ: +302109931458 
Slovenija 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
Slovenská republika 
Neuraxpharm Slovakia a.s. 
Tel: +421 255 425 562 
Suomi/Finland 
Neuraxpharm Sweden AB 
Puh/Tel: +46 (0)8 30 91 41 
(Ruotsi/Sverige) 
Sverige 
Neuraxpharm Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 30 91 41 
Latvija 
Neuraxpharm Pharmaceuticals, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 475 96 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Neuraxpharm Ireland Ltd 
Tel: +353 (0)1 428 7777   
This leaflet was last revised 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Read the SmPC for additional information. 
Posology 
• 
First and second doses 
The first dose is administered as a 150 mg intravenous infusion (first infusion), followed by a 450 mg 
intravenous infusion 2 weeks later (second infusion). 
• 
Subsequent doses 
Subsequent doses of Briumvi are administered as a single 450 mg intravenous infusion every 24 weeks 
(Table 1). The first subsequent dose of 450 mg should be administered 24 weeks after the First 
Infusion. A minimum interval of 5 months should be maintained between each dose of Briumvi. 
Figure 1: Dose and Schedule of Briumvi 
Management of IRRs before the infusion 
• 
• 
Briumvi treatment should be initiated and supervised by an experienced healthcare professional 
with access to appropriate medical support to manage severe reactions such as serious 
infusion-related reactions (IRRs). 
Premedication for IRRs 
The following two premedications must be administered prior to each Briumvi infusion to 
reduce the frequency and severity of IRRs: 
− 
100 mg methylprednisolone or 10-20 mg dexamethasone (or an equivalent) 
approximately 30-60 minutes prior to each Briumvi infusion; 
diphenhydramine approximately 30-60 minutes prior to each Briumvi infusion; 
− 
In addition, premedication with an antipyretic (e.g. paracetamol) may also be considered. 
Instructions for dilution 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Briumvi should be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique. Do not shake 
the vial. 
The product is intended for single use only. 
Do not use the solution if discoloured or if the solution contains foreign particulate matter. 
Briumvi medicinal product must be diluted before administration. Solutions of Briumvi for 
intravenous administration are prepared by dilution of the product into an infusion bag 
containing isotonic 0.9% sodium chloride. For the first infusion, dilute one vial of product into 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the infusion bag (150 mg/250 ml) to a final concentration of approximately 0.6 mg/ml. For 
subsequent infusions, dilute three vials of product into the infusion bag (450 mg/250 ml) to a 
final concentration of approximately 1.8 mg/ml. 
Prior to the start of the intravenous infusion, the content of the infusion bag should be at room 
temperature. 
• 
Method of administration 
• 
• 
After dilution, Briumvi is administered as an intravenous infusion through a dedicated line. 
Briumvi infusions should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus. 
Table 1: Dose and Schedule of Briumvi 
Amount and 
Volume 
Infusion Rate 
Duration 
First Infusion 
150 mg in 250 ml 
Second 
Infusion 
(2 weeks later) 
Subsequent 
Infusions 
(once every 
24 weeks)2 
450 mg in 250 ml 
450 mg in 250 ml 
•  Start at 10 ml per hour for the first 
• 
• 
• 
30 minutes 
Increase to 20 ml per hour for the next 
30 minutes 
Increase to 35 ml per hour for the 
next hour 
Increase to 100 ml per hour for the 
remaining 2 hours 
•  Start at 100 ml per hour for the first 
• 
30 minutes 
Increase to 400 ml per hour for the 
remaining 30 minutes 
•  Start at 100 ml per hour for the first 
• 
30 minutes 
Increase to 400 ml per hour for the 
remaining 30 minutes 
4 hours 
1 hour 
1 hour 
1Infusion duration may take longer if the infusion is interrupted or slowed. 
2The first subsequent infusion should be administered 24 weeks after the first infusion. 
Management of IRRs during and after the infusion 
Patients should be monitored during the infusion and for at least one hour after the completion of the 
first two infusions. 
During the infusion 
• 
Infusion Adjustments in case of IRRs 
In case of IRRs during any infusion, see the following adjustments. 
Life-threatening IRRs 
If there are signs of a life threatening or disabling IRR during an infusion, the infusion must be 
stopped immediately and the patient should receive appropriate treatment. Briumvi must be 
permanently discontinued in these patients (see section 4.3). 
Severe IRRs 
If a patient experiences a severe IRR, the infusion should be interrupted immediately and the 
patient should receive symptomatic treatment. The infusion should be restarted only after all 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms have resolved. When restarting, begin at half of the infusion rate at the time of onset 
of the IRR. If the rate is tolerated, increase the rate as described in Table 1. 
Mild to Moderate IRRs 
If a patient experiences a mild to moderate IRR, the infusion rate should be reduced to half the 
rate at the onset of the event. This reduced rate should be maintained for at least 30 minutes. If 
the reduced rate is tolerated, the infusion rate may then be increased as described in Table 1. 
After the infusion 
• 
• 
Patients treated with Briumvi should be observed for at least one hour after the completion of 
the first two infusions for any symptom of an IRR. 
Physicians should alert patients that an IRR can occur within 24 hours of infusion. 
Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years 
Diluted solution for intravenous infusion 
• 
• 
• 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C – 8°C and 
subsequently for 8 hours at room temperature. 
From a microbiological point of view, the prepared infusion should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the 
user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C and subsequently for 8 hours 
at room temperature, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic 
conditions. 
In the event an intravenous infusion cannot be completed the same day, the remaining solution 
should be discarded. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
