EMA/70742/2022  
EMEA/H/C/003898 
Briviact1 (brivaracetam) 
An overview of Briviact and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Briviact and what is it used for? 
Briviact is an epilepsy medicine used as an add-on to  other epilepsy medicines to treat partial-onset 
seizures (epileptic fits starting  in one specific part of the brain). It can be used in patients from the age 
of 2 years with partial-onset seizures with  or without  secondary generalisation (where the  abnormal 
electrical activity spreads through  the brain).  
Briviact contains the  active substance brivaracetam.  
How is Briviact used? 
Briviact can only be obtained with  a prescription. The medicine is available as tablets, an oral solution 
(a liquid taken by mouth)  and a solution  for injection or infusion (drip) into  a vein, which is used when 
the medicine cannot be given by mouth.  
The recommended starting dose depends on the  patient’s body weight.  After starting treatment, the 
dose can be adjusted according to the patient’s  needs.  
For more information about using Briviact, see the package leaflet or contact  a doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Briviact work? 
Epilepsy is caused by excessive electrical activity in certain areas of the brain. The exact way in which 
brivaracetam, the active substance in Briviact, works is not clear, but  it attaches to a protein called 
synaptic vesicle protein 2A, which  is involved in the release of chemical messengers from nerve cells. 
This helps Briviact to stabilise electrical activity in  the brain and prevent seizures. 
What benefits of Briviact have been shown in studies? 
Briviact is more effective than  placebo (a dummy treatment) at reducing seizures. This was shown in 
three main studies involving a total of 1,558  patients aged 16 years and above. Either  Briviact or 
placebo was added to  patients’ usual epilepsy treatment. Taking the studies together, the frequency of 
1 In Italy: Nubriveo 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
seizures was at least halved in 34 to  38% of those adding Briviact at doses from 25 to 100  mg twice a 
day. This compares with  20% in those adding placebo. 
Supportive studies showed that  the doses recommended for children produced similar amounts of the 
medicine in  the body to  those seen with  recommended doses in adults.  Therefore Briviact is expected 
to work in children in the same way. 
What are the risks associated with Briviact? 
The most common side effects with  Briviact (which  may affect more than 1 in  10 people) are 
somnolence (sleepiness) and dizziness. For the full list of side effects of Briviact, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Briviact authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Briviact’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it  can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Clinical studies have shown add-on treatment with  Briviact to  be more effective than placebo for 
controlling partial-onset seizures in adults  and children from 2 years of age. Most side effects of 
Briviact were of mild  or moderate severity and were considered manageable.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Briviact? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Briviact have been included in the  summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Briviact are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Briviact are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Briviact 
Briviact received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 14 January 2016. 
Further information on Briviact can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/briviact-italy-nubriveo. 
This overview was last updated in  02-2022. 
Briviact0F (brivaracetam)  
EMA/70742/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
