Summary of risk management plan for Bronchitol 
(Inhaled Mannitol) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Bronchitol. The RMP details important 
risks of Bronchitol, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Bronchitol's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Bronchitol's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Bronchitol should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Bronchitol should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Bronchitol's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Bronchitol is authorised for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in adults aged 18 years and above 
as an add-on therapy to best standard of care (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
inhaled mannitol as the active substance and it is given by inhalation powder (40 mg) in hard 
capsules to be used in an inhaler. 
Further information about the evaluation of Bronchitol’s benefits can be found in Bronchitol’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bronchitol. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Bronchitol,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Bronchitol's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Bronchitol, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, Click here to enter text.so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Bronchitol is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Bronchitol are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Bronchitol. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  Haemoptysis 
  Bronchospasm 
  Cough 
 
Increased risk of respiratory or systemic infection  
  Patients who have had significant haemoptysis in last 
3 months 
  Patients with <30% predicted FEV1 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important identified risk: Haemoptysis 
Evidence for linking the risk 
In clinical trials, haemoptysis was noted to be a common 
to the medicine 
adverse reaction. New or increased haemoptysis (all-causality 
AEs or as a symptom of pulmonary exacerbation) was 
reported in 10.6% of patients receiving Bronchitol compared 
with 10.2% of patients receiving control (50 mg mannitol) in 3 
phase 3 studies combined. Haemoptysis is considered an 
important identified risk as massive haemoptysis may be life 
threatening. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The greatest risk factors for haemoptysis are a previous 
history of haemoptysis, pulmonary exacerbation and cough. 
Pancreatic insufficiency, diabetes and Staphylococcus aureus 
(S. aureus) infections are also major factors associated with 
massive haemoptysis in the CF population.  
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.8 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Haemoptysis 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on carefully 
monitoring patients with a history of significant episodes of 
haemoptysis (>60 mL) in the previous 3 months 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational Pack 
Important identified risk: Bronchospasm  
Evidence for linking the risk 
In clinical trials, bronchospasm was noted to be an uncommon 
to the medicine 
adverse reaction. All-causality AEs of bronchospasm were 
reported in 0.4% of patients receiving Bronchitol compared 
with 0.4% of patients receiving control (50 mg mannitol) in 3 
phase 3 studies combined. Bronchospasm is considered an 
important identified risk as, together with life-threatening 
upper airway obstruction and/or hypotension, it can be fatal. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The changes in airway dimensions in CF patients, such as a 
significant increase in airway smooth muscle and wall area and 
a decrease in cartilage area are thought to contribute to the 
severe airflow obstruction and increased bronchial 
responsiveness to bronchodilators and bronchoconstrictors. 
Severe airflow obstruction develops in most CF patients with 
increasing age.   
Inhaled mannitol is a known bronchoconstrictive agent in 
patients with active asthma. Bronchospasm following the 
inhalation of an aerosol is common, irrespective of the agent 
inhaled, with the risk of bronchospasm greater in patients with 
inherent airway liability due to conditions such as asthma. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on careful monitoring 
of patients for bronchial hyperresponsiveness to inhaled 
mannitol during administration of their initiation dose. Section 
4.4 also provides advice on conducting a formal review after 
approximately 6 weeks of Bronchitol treatment to assess for 
signs and symptoms of active substance induced 
bronchospasm. 
PL sections 2, 3 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational Pack 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Cough 
Evidence for linking the risk 
In clinical trials, cough was noted to be a common adverse 
to the medicine 
reaction. All-causality AEs of cough were reported in 17.3% of 
patients receiving Bronchitol compared with 13.5% of patients 
receiving control (50 mg mannitol) in 3 phase 3 studies 
combined. Cough is considered an important identified risk as 
episodes of cough may be accompanied by events of 
haemoptysis or cough-induced neurological deficits, e.g., 
cough-syncope, associated headache and paralysis. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
All patients with CF will experience cough as part of their 
disease. Cough, and its frequency and productivity, may 
depend on the severity of disease, which may increase with 
advancing age. Cough is often associated with acute 
pulmonary exacerbation of CF, and more frequent and 
productive cough may be indicative of a decline in lung 
function.  
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on providing training 
to practice correct inhaler technique during treatment 
PL sections 2, 3 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational Pack 
Important potential risk: Increased risk of respiratory or systemic infection 
Evidence for linking the risk 
In clinical trials, certain infections were noted to be uncommon 
to the medicine 
adverse reactions. All-causality AEs of respiratory and 
systemic infections were reported in 38.9% of patients 
receiving Bronchitol compared with 37.6% of patients 
receiving control (50 mg mannitol) in 3 phase 3 studies 
combined. Increased risk of respiratory and systemic 
infections is considered an important potential risk as these 
types of infections are frequent in patients with CF, but it is 
unclear if administration of Bronchitol increases this risk. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Although patient-to-patient transmission generally occurs due 
to prolonged social contact, the routes of transmission are not 
fully understood and thought to be due to infected respiratory 
secretions contaminating the healthcare environment. B. 
cepacia complex bacteria have also been recognised as 
particularly virulent pathogens in CF, and infection with the 
organisms is associated with a rapid decline in lung function 
and markedly shorter median survival. Currently, B. cepacia 
complex has been isolated from 3% to 4% of patients with CF 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Increased risk of respiratory or systemic infection 
in the US and these bacteria have been found to possess 
innate and acquired mechanisms of multidrug resistance. All 
but one of the identified bacterial species in the B. cepacia 
complex, have been cultured in CF sputum and B. cenocepacia 
and B. multivorans are the two most common species, 
accounting for approximately 45% and 40% of infections, 
respectively.    
B. cepacia infections can be transmitted from patient to 
patient due to close contact between CF patients and sharing 
of equipment. Strict policies have been adopted worldwide for 
segregation of CF patients with B. cepacia infections, and 
segregation is considered the most successful prevention 
strategies. 
S. aureus and H. influenzae infections are commonly seen in 
infants with CF and an increase in methicillin-resistant S. 
aureus (MRSA) has been noted in CF patients in recent years. 
Patient-to-patient transmission of these organisms has been 
observed and policies to prevent these modes of transmission 
will help to control infections among CF patients. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.8 
PL section 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Missing information: Patients who have had significant haemoptysis in last 3 
months 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on carefully 
monitoring patients with a history of significant episodes of 
haemoptysis (>60 mL) in the previous 3 months 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Educational Pack 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Patients with <30% predicted FEV1 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4 where it is recommended not to use 
Bronchitol in patients with a FEV1 of less than 30% of 
predicted 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Bronchitol. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Bronchitol. 
 
 
 
 
