EMA/865142/2011  
EMEA/H/C/001252 
EPAR summary for the public 
Bronchitol 
Mannitol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Bronchitol. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Bronchitol. 
What is Bronchitol? 
Bronchitol is a medicine that contains the active substance mannitol. It is available as capsules (40 
mg) containing a dry powder for inhalation using an inhaler device. 
What is Bronchitol used for? 
Bronchitol is used for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in adults in addition to best standard of care. 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease that affects the cells in the lungs and the glands in the gut and 
pancreas that secrete fluids such as mucus and digestive juices. In cystic fibrosis these fluids become 
thick and viscous, blocking the airways and the flow of digestive juices. This leads to problems with the 
digestion and absorption of food, resulting in poor growth, and long-term infection and inflammation of 
the lungs because of excess mucus not being cleared away.  
Because the number of patients with cystic fibrosis is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Bronchitol was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 7 November 
2005. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Bronchitol used? 
Before initiating treatment with Bronchitol, patients need to undergo an initiation dose assessment 
during which they are challenged with an increasing dose of Bronchitol up to 400 mg in total to detect 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bronchial hyperresponsiveness (a state in which the airways of the lungs narrow easily). Patients who 
show bronchial hyperresponsiveness must not be treated with Bronchitol. 
This first dose of 400 mg Bronchitol should only be given under the supervision of a qualified 
healthcare professional in a setting where the patient’s breathing can be properly monitored and 
facilities for resuscitation are available.  
Bronchitol is inhaled using the inhaler device provided. The capsules must never be swallowed. The 
recommended dose is 400 mg (which requires the inhalation of the content of 10 capsules loaded 
individually into the inhaler) twice a day in the morning and in the evening. The evening dose should 
be taken two to three hours before bedtime. 
For more information on how to use Bronchitol, see the instructions in the package leaflet. 
How does Bronchitol work? 
The active substance in Bronchitol, mannitol, is a naturally occurring polyol (a sugar alcohol) that is 
widely used as an osmotic agent. This means that it can promote osmosis (the flow of liquid across a 
membrane). The exact way in which Bronchitol works in cystic fibrosis is not known. After being 
inhaled, Bronchitol is believed to cause the inflow of fluid into the airway secretions in the lungs, 
making them less viscous and therefore easier to be cleared away.  
How has Bronchitol been studied? 
The effects of Bronchitol were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
Bronchitol was tested in two main studies involving 642 patients between six and 56 years of age with 
mild or moderate cystic fibrosis. In both studies the patients received either 400 mg of inhaled 
Bronchitol twice daily or 50 mg of inhaled Bronchitol twice daily (which was considered ineffective and 
hence intended as placebo (dummy treatment)). Some patients also received additional treatment with 
rhDNase (another treatment for cystic fibrosis). The main measure of effectiveness was based on the 
improvement in patients’ forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) adjusted for the patients age, 
height and sex, measured over 26 weeks in both studies. FEV1 is the maximum volume of air a person 
can breathe out in one second. 
What benefit has Bronchitol shown during the studies? 
Patients overall showed an improvement of approximately 2-3% in FEV1 adjusted for age, height and 
sex when compared with placebo over 26 weeks of treatment with Bronchitol. 
What is the risk associated with Bronchitol? 
The most common side effect with Bronchitol (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is cough. The most 
serious side effect with Bronchitol is bronchospasm (narrowing of the airways of the lung) during the 
initiation dose assessment and haemoptysis (coughing of blood) during treatment with Bronchitol. For 
the full list of all side effects reported with Bronchitol, see the package leaflet. 
Bronchitol must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to mannitol. Bronchitol must 
also not be used in patients with bronchial hyperresponsiveness. 
Bronchitol  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
Why has Bronchitol been approved? 
The Committee took the view that although the improvement in FEV1 shown by the studies was small 
Bronchitol may be of benefit in patients with cystic fibrosis if used in addition to best standard of care. 
Regarding the safety of Bronchitol, the CHMP considered that sufficient measures have been proposed 
by the company to reduce the risks of bronchospasm and haemoptysis. The CHMP therefore concluded 
that the benefits of Bronchitol in addition to best standard of care outweigh its risks for adult patients 
with cystic fibrosis and recommended that it be granted marketing authorisation.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Bronchitol? 
The company that makes Bronchitol must ensure that all healthcare professionals expected to 
prescribe the medicine are provided with important safety information including information on the risk 
of narrowing of the airways in the lungs and the coughing of blood and how to manage this risk.   
In order to obtain further information on effectiveness and safety of Bronchitol in children and 
adolescents with cystic fibrosis the CHMP requested the company to carry out a study in this patient 
group.   
Other information about Bronchitol 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Bronchitol on 13 April 2012.  
The full EPAR for Bronchitol can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Bronchitol, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Bronchitol can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2012. 
Bronchitol  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
