4 October 2021 
EMA/OD/0000058248 
EMADOC-1700519818-731146 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Brukinsa (zanubrutinib) 
Treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 
EU/3/19/2167 
Sponsor: BeiGene Ireland Limited     
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 9 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 2/9 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance 
Zanubrutinib 
Other name(s) 
Brukinsa, zanubrutinib, Amides; Antineoplastics; 
Piperidines; Pyrazoles; Pyrimidines; Small molecules  
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Zanubrutinib 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Brukinsa 
Treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma  
BeiGene Ireland Limited   
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2  
D02 T380 
Co. Dublin 
Ireland  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
BeiGene Ireland Limited 
2 May 2019 
4 June 2019 
EU/3/19/2167 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Johanna Lähteenvuo / Sinan B. Sarac 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
BeiGene Ireland Limited   
28 May 2020 
18 June 2020 
EMA/H/C/004978 
Brukinsa 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s 
macroglobulinaemia (WM), who have received at 
least 1 prior therapy, or in first-line treatment for 
patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy 
CHMP opinion 
16 September 2021 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Sponsor’s report submission 
COMP discussion  
Karri Penttila / Elisabeth Johanne Rook 
17 March 2021 
15-17 June 2021  
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
7-9 September 2021 
questions 
Sponsor’s removal request  
Removal from the Register 
28 September 2021 
4 October 2021 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2019 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing zanubrutinib was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical data demonstrating that patients affected by the 
condition respond to treatment; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to bone marrow dysfunction, 
lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and paraproteinaemia resulting in hyperviscosity, autoimmunity, 
cryoglobulinaemia, coagulopathies and neuropathies; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 1.4 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, the 
sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal product 
containing zanubrutinib will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The sponsor 
has provided preliminary clinical data demonstrating that relapsed/refractory patients respond to 
treatment. Indirect comparisons to trial data with the currently authorised product suggest 
improved outcomes. The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant 
advantage.  
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, or Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, is a low-grade B cell 
lymphoproliferative neoplasm characterized by small lymphocytes and monoclonal IgM monoclonal 
gammopathy. The disorder presents with symptoms related to bone marrow infiltration and IgM 
monoclonal gammopathy. Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma is a diagnosis of exclusion; a diagnosis 
should only be rendered after the exclusion of all other small B cell lymphomas. 
The aetiology of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma is poorly understood. However, the association of the 
disease with hepatitis C virus and autoimmune disorders has been documented. The malignant cells in 
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma are believed to originate from cells at a late stage of B-cell 
differentiation. These cells derive from a B-cell arrest after somatic hypermutation in the germinal 
centre and before terminal differentiation to a plasma cell. The pathological findings in 
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma are due to infiltration of the bone marrow with small lymphocytes and 
IgM monoclonal gammopathy. Visual and neurological symptoms are related to the hyperviscosity and 
sluggishness of blood flow. Bleeding encountered in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is due to IgM 
binding to the clotting factors. Cryoglobulinemia in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia patients leads to 
Raynaud phenomena and cold urticaria. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2017 World Health Organization classification of tumours of hematopoietic and lymphoid 
tissues have established four diagnostic criteria for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, including: 
1.  Presence of IgM monoclonal gammopathy 
2.  Infiltration of bone marrow by small lymphocytes showing plasmacytoid or plasma cell 
differentiation 
3.  Bone marrow infiltration showing an intertrabecular pattern 
4.  Immunophenotype supportive of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia that including surface IgM+, 
CD19+, CD20+, CD22+, CD25+, CD27+, FMC7+, CD5 variable, CD10-, CD23-, CD103-, and 
CD108- 
The diagnosis of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is usually challenging 
due to the lack of specific morphologic, immunophenotypic, or chromosomal changes. This lack makes 
the differentiation of this disease entity from other small B cell lymphomas based on exclusion. 
Symptoms can be classified into two categories: neoplasmic organ involvement and IgM paraprotein 
related symptoms. Patients may present with B related symptoms such as fever, night sweats, weight 
loss. Because of the frequent involvement of bone marrow, most lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 
patients present with weakness and/or fatigue related to anaemia. Some patients may present with 
the involvement of spleen, liver, and other extranodal sites, including skin, stomach, and bowel. As a 
rule, the diagnosis of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma should be considered in elderly individuals with 
unexplained weakness, bleeding, neurological deficits, neuropathies, and visual difficulties. 
(Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma, Kateb H et al 2021) 
The COMP continues to designate this condition.  
The approved therapeutic indication “BRUKINSA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, 
or in first line treatment for patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy” falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan condition “treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma is a disease of the elderly, with incidence increasing with age, and 
median age being over 70 years. The indicative symptoms for treatment include hyperviscosity, 
neuropathy, symptomatic adenopathy or organomegaly, amyloidosis, cryoglobulinemia, cold 
agglutinin, disease, and presence of cytopenia (NCCN 2017). 
The median survival of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma patients is approximately five years. About 40% 
of patients survive for ten years or more. Typically, the cause of death is more due to advance age-
associated comorbidities than WM.  
Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma may transform to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and is 
associated with poor survival. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided a ten-year partial prevalence and used 7% mortality per year, which is 
roughly equal to a median survival of seven years based only on one publication Castillo et al 2015. 
Using this approach, 10-year partial prevalence in Europe was estimated to be 0.31 per 10,000. 
The COMP noted that no other publications were used nor was there is no reference to ECIS or any 
other European database leading to a very limited prevalence estimate. This  is insufficient to establish 
with greater certainty what the current prevalence could be.  
The sponsor should therefore be requested to submit a more thorough prevalence estimate for the 
purpose of the review for the maintenance of the orphan designation.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Not all patients with a diagnosis of LPL/WM need immediate therapy. Criteria for the initiation of 
therapy include IgM-related complications and/or symptoms related to bone marrow involvement by 
tumour cells such as cytopenias, constitutional symptoms and bulky extramedullary disease (Kastritis 
et al., 2018; Leblond et al., 2016). 
Anti-CD20-based (rituximab-based) combinations are the mainstay of first-line treatment. 
Combinations of rituximab with alkylating agents (oral or IV cyclophosphamide or bendamustine) or 
with proteasome inhibitors are primary treatment options. 
Currently, ibrutinib (monotherapy), which is orally administered, is the only approved medicinal 
product in the EU for second line treatment and no treatments are approved for patients in third line 
therapy. For the purpose of identifying satisfactory methods for the target patient population of 
zanubrutinib, only ibrutinib is relevant.  
The sponsor highlights medicinal products used in the treatment of the condition under the umbrella 
indication of non-Hodgkin lymphoma of which LPL belongs.  
These are namely: dexamethasone, rituximab, cyclophosphamide (DRC) and bortezomib. 
Treatment algorithm for relapsed/refractory Waldenstrom’s Macroglobulinemia (ESMO Guideline, 
Kastritis et al., 2018) 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.   
Significant benefit 
No protocol assistance has been requested since orphan drug designation was granted (29 May 2019). 
EMA scientific advice on the clinical development program for WM was obtained on 13 October 2016 
(EMEA/H/SA/3376/2/2016/II) and discussed with the national competent health authorities of 
Denmark and Sweden on 10 and 11 September 2019 and with the assigned rapporteur and co-
rapporteur on 9 March 2020. 
The sponsor is seeking the following indication: BRUKINSA as monotherapy is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least 
one prior therapy, or in first line treatment for patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy. 
A similar product ibrutinib (BTK inhibitor) has the following indication in section 4.1 of the SmPC: 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Waldenström's 
macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line treatment for patients 
unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy. IMBRUVICA in combination with rituximab is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with WM. 
There is a full overlap in the second line patient population covered by the two products’ indications. It 
can be said that the indication for Brukinsa is more limited than that of Imbruvica. As Imbruvica alone 
or in combination with rituximab is the only product specifically authorised for LPL/WM this will be the 
basis of the significant benefit assessment. 
The sponsor has provided comparative data from their ASPEN Study where they claim clinically 
relevant advantage over Ibrutinib as the basis of significant benefit. These claims are: 
•  Comparable rates of overall response (95.1% vs 93.9%) and major response (79.4% vs. 77.8%) 
by investigator assessment for zanubrutinib versus ibrutinib, respectively. 
•  Numerically higher Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) rates by investigator (descriptive p = 
0.0243) for overall and (descriptive p = 0.0422) for refractory / recurrent (RR) WM.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Durable responses: VGPR event-free rate at 30 months 92.1% (72.1, 98.0) vs. 82.9% (55.7, 94.2) 
for zanubrutinib and ibrutinib respectively; MRR event-free rate at 30 months 89.0% (79.2, 94.4) 
vs. 80.5% (65.7, 89.4) for zanubrutinib and ibrutinib respectively. 
• 
Landmark PFS improvements directionally consistent with sustained IgM reduction; event-free rate 
at 30 months 84.9% (75.7, 90.8) vs. 77.6% (67.4, 85.0) for zanubrutinib and ibrutinib 
respectively. 
•  Clear clinical activity in patients with MYD88WT WM with an overall response rate (ORR) of 80.8%, 
VGPR rate of 30.8%, and MRR of 53.8% by investigator, with safety findings consistent with that 
observed in the zanubrutinib arm of Cohort 1. 
• 
Treatment of CXCR4WHIM WM patients with zanubrutinib resulted in deeper responses with 4-fold 
higher VGPR and high major responses than those treated with ibrutinib.  Furthermore, responses 
were rapid on the zanubrutinib arm and duration of response was long in CXCR4WHIM patients 
achieving either a VGPR or major response. 
•  Clinically significant improvement in safety and tolerability, particularly regarding cardiovascular 
events (atrial fibrillation and hypertension), as well as events leading to discontinuation or 
interruption of treatment, relative to ibrutinib. 
•  With zanubrutinib treatment (compared to ibrutinib treatment) there was a reduction in the risk of 
specific events (pooled PT terms) known to be associated with ibrutinib therapy: atrial fibrillation, 
major bleeding, hypertension, and diarrhoea. 
•  A higher rate of non-treatment-limiting neutropenia in zanubrutinib-treated versus ibrutinib-
treated patients, possibly reflecting higher or more sustained BTK occupancy for zanubrutinib 
versus ibrutinib. This was not associated with an increase in infections any grade, grade 3 or 
higher infection, or serious infections. 
• 
The risk of developing atrial fibrillation, major bleeding, hypertension, pneumonia, or diarrhoea 
over time, was lower in zanubrutinib-treated patients versus those treated with ibrutinib. The risk 
of developing neutropenia over time was higher on the zanubrutinib arm, but the overall risk of 
infection as mentioned above, including Grade 3 or higher infection, over time was comparable 
across the zanubrutinib and ibrutinib treatment arms. 
• 
Trend toward improvement in relevant QoL measures relative to ibrutinib 
The sponsor claims that the totality of the data of the ASPEN study confirms the Phase1/2 BGB-3111-
AU-003 study data presented in 2019 that led to the granting of orphan drug designation for 
zanubrutinib, and indicates that zanubrutinib may address the continued unmet need of patients in 
first line treatment and R/R WM given its clear efficacy, and superior safety over ibrutinib, and an 
overall highly favourable risk-benefit profile compared to current treatment options. 
There are also claims of better safety focusing on comparative analysis to specifically identified side-
effects associated with for example cardiotoxicity where a focus on the difference in reporting rates for 
atrial fibrillation/flutter is highlighted. The problem with these comparisons is the paucity of safety data 
for zanubrutinib in patients with LPL/WM in comparison to ibrutinib which has had the indication and 
been used for much longer. Therefore, the validity of this particular comparison is limited and does not 
take into consideration the totality of all the side-effects reported for zanubrutinib in the condition 
LPL/WM. In general, the COMP does not consider a different safety profile, necessarily a better safety 
profile. Therefore, all safety aspects of the two products need to be compared. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
The sponsor should be invited therefore to further elaborate on the basis of significant benefit for 
zanubrutinib. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Prevalence: 
The sponsor is invited to provide a more current and thorough prevalence estimate which should use 
European cancer databases.  
Significant benefit: 
The sponsor is invited to further elaborate on the basis of significant benefit in comparison to ibrutinib 
which is the only product currently authorised for use specifically in this condition.  
Currently the data provided does not appear sufficient to support the claim of significant benefit to 
ibrutinib. The sponsor is invited to further elaborate on the basis of significant benefit based on safety 
in comparison to ibrutinib. Particularly, the power to detect differences in safety between zanubrutinib 
and ibrutinib of the ASPEN Phase 3 study needs to be justified. The clinical relevance of the possible 
cardiovascular safety benefit of zanubrutinib needs to be discussed within the context of the overall 
safety profile. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000058248 
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
