EMA/916026/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004978 
Brukinsa (zanubrutinib) 
An overview of Brukinsa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Brukinsa and what is it used for? 
Brukinsa is a medicine for treating adults with  the following types of blood cancers that  affect a type of 
white  blood cell called B lymphocytes or B cells: 
•  Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (also known as lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma). Brukinsa is 
used on its own in patients  who have not been treated before and who cannot receive chemo-
immunotherapy (a type of cancer treatment), or in patients who  have received at least one prior 
therapy; 
•  Marginal zone lymphoma (MZL).  Brukinsa is used on its own  when the disease has come back after 
at least one prior therapy targeting  a protein on B lymphocytes called CD20;  
•  Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL).  Brukinsa is used on its own  in patients for the treatment of 
CLL.   
Brukinsa contains the active substance zanubrutinib. 
How is Brukinsa used? 
Brukinsa is available as capsules to be taken by mouth. The recommended dose is 320 mg daily, to be 
taken either at  one time or split in two  (160 mg twice  a day). 
The doctor may decide to interrupt  and reduce the dose or stop treatment if serious side effects occur.  
The doctor may also decide to reduce the dose if Brukinsa is taken together with  certain other 
medicines. 
Brukinsa can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines. For more information about  using Brukinsa, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Brukinsa work? 
The active substance in Brukinsa, zanubrutinib,  blocks the action of an enzyme known as Bruton's 
tyrosine kinase (BTK). BTK is important for the  growth of B cells, including  the abnormal B cells in 
patients with  Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia, marginal zone lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
leukaemia. By blocking the action of BTK, the medicine is expected to slow the progression of the 
disease. 
What benefits of Brukinsa have been shown in studies? 
Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia 
In a main study in  201 patients with Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia who had not  received a BTK 
inhibitor  before, the effects of Brukinsa were compared with  those of ibrutinib, another BTK inhibitor 
that is authorised in the  European Union (EU).  Brukinsa showed similar effects to those of ibrutinib. 
After 20 months of treatment on average, about 28% of patients (29 out  of 102) who received 
Brukinsa had almost no signs of cancer (very good partial response) compared with 19%  (19 out of 
99) of patients who  received ibrutinib. Beneficial effects were seen both, in  patients who had not been 
treated before and in those whose cancer had come back or not  responded to previous treatment.  
Marginal  zone lymphoma 
The main study of Brukinsa in  marginal zone lymphoma involved 66 patients  whose cancer had come 
back or did not respond to previous treatment targeting CD20. Overall, around 68% (45  out of 66) had 
at least a partial response after an average of 28 months of treatment:  26% (17 out  of 66)  had a 
complete response (no signs of cancer) and 42% (28  out of 66) had a partial response. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
The benefits of Brukinsa in  chronic lymphocytic leukaemia have been investigated in two main studies, 
both of which are ongoing. In the first study, involving patients with  either CLL  or small lymphocytic 
leukaemia whose disease had not  been treated before, Brukinsa was compared with bendamustine in 
combination with  rituximab. After about 23  months of treatment on average, death or signs that the 
cancer was progressing occurred in about 15% of patients  (36 out of 241)  who received Brukinsa 
compared with  about 30% (71  out of 238) of those who received bendamustine in combination with 
rituximab. 
In the second study, patients  with  CLL or small lymphocytic leukaemia whose disease had not 
improved (refractory) or had come back (relapsed) following treatment with  at least one prior therapy, 
Brukinsa was compared with  ibrutinib. Brukinsa showed similar effects to those of ibrutinib.  After about 
14 months  of treatment  on average, the disease responded to treatment in  about 78% of patients 
(162  out of 207) who received Brukinsa compared with about  63% (130 out  of 208)  of those who 
received ibrutinib.  
What are the risks associated with Brukinsa? 
The most common side effects with  Brukinsa (which  may affect more than 1 in 10  people) are 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white  blood cell),  upper respiratory tract infection 
(nose and throat  infection), haemorrhage (bleeding), bruising,  rash and musculoskeletal pain (pain in 
the muscles and bones). 
The most common serious side effects with  Brukinsa are neutropenia, pneumonia (infection of the 
lungs), hypertension (high blood pressure) and thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets) (which 
may affect up to 1 in 10  people). 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Brukinsa, see the  package leaflet. 
Brukinsa (zanubrutinib)  
EMA/916026/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Brukinsa authorised in the EU? 
Brukinsa was shown to be effective at slowing the progression of Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia 
both in  patients who had not been treated before and in those whose cancer had not responded to 
previous treatment. Brukinsa was also shown to be effective in treating marginal zone lymphoma that 
had come back or not responded after at least one prior therapy targeting  CD20. In addition,  Brukinsa 
was shown to be effective in treating CLL  when the disease was not previously treated or when it  had 
come back or not responded to  at least one prior therapy.The side effects of Brukinsa are considered 
manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Brukinsa’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What information is still awaited for Brukinsa? 
The company that  markets Brukinsa will provide results from a study comparing Brukinsa with 
lenalidomide, both  given in  combination with rituximab, in patients with  marginal zone lymphoma 
whose disease has come back or not  responded to prior therapy.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Brukinsa? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Brukinsa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Brukinsa are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Brukinsa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Brukinsa 
Brukinsa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 22 November 2021. 
Further information on Brukinsa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/brukinsa.  
This overview was last updated in  11-2022. 
Brukinsa (zanubrutinib)  
EMA/916026/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
