24 June 2021 
EMA/442285/2021   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
BUCCOLAM 
midazolam 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002267/P46/018 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program .............................................................. 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study .............................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................. 4 
Description .............................................................................................................. 4 
Methods .................................................................................................................. 4 
Results .................................................................................................................. 10 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 15 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 16 
  Fulfilled: .............................................................................................................. 16 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 2/16 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 13/04/2021, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Buccolam in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  declared  that  study  SHP615-302  is  part  of  a  clinical  development  program  to  support  the 
paediatric status epilepticus indication in Japan per request of the Japanese health authorities. There is 
no variation or extension to be expected as Buccolam is already approved for use in paediatric subjects 
in the EU. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The  investigational  product  (IP)  is  a  clear,  colorless,  ready-to-use  solution  containing  5  mg/mL 
midazolam (as midazolam hydrochloride salt; each mL contains 5 mg midazolam free base [equivalent 
to 5.56 mg midazolam hydrochloride]). It was specifically developed as a single, age-specific, fixed-dose 
(which equates to approximately 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg) formulation for buccal administration in children, 1 
dosage per each of the following age groups: 
• 2.5 mg (yellow label) ages more than 6 months to less than 1 year (and weight more than 
5 kg) 
• 5 mg (blue label) ages 1 year to less than 5 years 
• 7.5 mg (purple label) ages 5 years to less than 10 years 
• 10 mg (orange label) ages 10 years to less than 18 years 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
Study SHP615-302: A Phase 3, Multicenter, Open-label Extension Study of Buccally Administered 
MHOS/SHP615 in Pediatric Patients with Status Epilepticus (Convulsive) in Community Settings. 
The study ran from April 2018 to October 2020.   
CHMP comments 
This is a follow-up study to study SHP615-301, which evaluated Buccolam in Japanese paediatric patients 
with  convulsive  status  epilepticus  in  an  emergency  room  setting.  Study  SHP615-301  was  assessed 
previously in pdWS EMEA/H/C/002267/P46/017. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 3/16 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Study  SHP615-302:  A  Phase  3,  Multicenter,  Open-label  Extension  Study  of  Buccally 
Administered  MHOS/SHP615  in  Pediatric  Patients  with  Status  Epilepticus  (Convulsive)  in 
Community Settings 
Description 
Study SHP615-302 was a phase 3, open-label study to evaluate efficacy and safety of a single dose of 
Buccolam  (oromucosal  midazolam,  hereafter  referred  to  as  MHOS/SHP615)  given  by  caregivers  to 
Japanese paediatric patients with convulsive status epilepticus in the community setting.  
Methods 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  buccally  administered  midazolam 
hydrochloride  oromucosal  solution  (MHOS/SHP615)  in  paediatric  subjects  with  status  epilepticus  (SE; 
convulsive) in the community setting.  
The secondary objective of this study was to assess the safety of buccally administered MHOS/SHP615 
in paediatric subjects with SE (convulsive) in the community setting. 
Study design 
This study was to be conducted in approximately 27 healthcare setting study centers in Japan. 
Six subjects were to be enrolled in this study as shown in Figure 1. Screening occurred on the same day 
as baseline (Visit 1) for the SHP615-301 study (evaluation of Buccolam in Japanese paediatric patients 
with  convulsive  status  epilepticus  in  an  emergency  room  setting).  After  completing  the  SHP615-301 
study,  the  subject’s  parent,  guardian,  or  legal  representative  was  dispensed  a  single  oral,  prefilled 
syringe  of  MHOS/SHP615,  along  with  a  diary  and  training  on  how  to  administer  the  drug  and  record 
details  associated  with  the  seizure.  Upon  the  onset  of  the  next seizure  in  the  community  setting,  the 
caregiver  administered  the  investigational  product  (IP),  as  trained,  after  confirming  that  the  seizure 
activity was appropriate for MHOS/SHP615 treatment. The caregiver recorded observations on seizure 
activity, timing of the seizure(s), and dosing-related errors in a study diary. The caregiver and subject 
visited the study site for examination as soon as possible following MHOS/SHP615 administration, even 
if the seizure had stopped. If, due to a medical emergency, the subject had received treatment at the 
closest emergency medical institution, then the caregiver reported the incident and relevant information, 
including any rescue treatment received, to the investigator/study site within 1 week after the incident. 
Subjects remained in the hospital under observation for at least 6 hours and for up to 24 hours after 
hospital arrival (as needed). 
All subjects treated in this study were followed for 1 week after the administration of MHOS/SHP615 for 
safety evaluations. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Study Design Schematic 
Study population / Sample size 
Study population 
Subject eligibility was reviewed and documented by the investigator or sub investigator before subjects 
were included in the study. 
Each subject had to meet the following criteria to be eligible for the study: 
1.  Subjects who completed the SHP615-301 study and who tolerated and responded to treatment 
with  MHOS/SHP615  in  the  hospital  and/or  emergency  room  and  were  considered  stable  for 
discharge from the hospital. 
2.  Subjects  who  were  more  than  6  months  and  less  than  18  years  of  age  at  the  time  of 
MHOS/SHP615  administration.  If  the  subject's  exact  age  was  not  known,  the  subject  was 
excluded. 
3.  Parent, guardian, or legally authorized representative of the child provided informed consent and 
assent (when applicable) to participate in the study after initial stabilization of the subject with 
SE  in  hospital  or  emergency  room  during  the  SHP615-301  study.  The  subject  also  provided 
informed consent prior to participation, where applicable. 
4.  Parent,  guardian,  or 
legally  authorized 
representative  had 
received  appropriate 
training/education and was deemed qualified by the investigator and was willing to:  
a.  properly administer MHOS/SHP615; 
b.  record seizure information and dosing of MHOS/SHP615 in a subject diary (including time 
of  seizure  onset,  type  of  seizure,  time  necessary  to  administer  MHOS/SHP615,  time 
between MHOS/SHP615 administration to seizure cessation, etc); 
c. 
follow the necessary instructions to secure the safety of the subject. 
5.  Subjects  who  experienced  generalized  tonic-clonic  SE  with  seizures  accompanied  by  loss  of 
consciousness  with  any  of  the  following  characteristics  persistent  at  the  time  of  study  drug 
administration: 
d.  presented,  at  the  time,  with  seizure  (convulsive)  activity  and  3  or  more  convulsions 
within the preceding hour;  
e.  presented, at the time, with seizure (convulsive) and 2 or more convulsions in succession 
without recovery of consciousness; 
f.  presented, at the time, with a single seizure (convulsive) persisting ≥5 minutes 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 5/16 
 
 
 
 
Subjects who met any of the following criteria were excluded from the study: 
1. Female subjects who were pregnant, suspected to be pregnant, or nursing.
2. Subjects with major trauma, not necessarily restricted to the head, as the cause of the seizure.
3. Subjects with known or suspected recurrent seizures due to illegal drug or alcohol withdrawal.
4. Subjects with seizures due to illegal drug or acute alcoholic intoxication.
5. Subjects with seizures of psychogenic origin.
6. Subjects with seizures due to severe cases of encephalitis or meningitis, as determined by the
investigator.
7. Subjects with a known history of hypersensitivities, nonresponsiveness or contraindications to
benzodiazepines  (ie,  clinically  significant  respiratory  depression,  severe  acute  hepatic  failure,
myasthenia gravis, syndrome of sleep apnoea, glaucoma with closed angle, or use of concomitant
drugs determined by the investigator to have a contraindication to the use of benzodiazepines.)
8. Subjects with a known history of benzodiazepine abuse.
9. Subjects who had not responded to previous administrations of midazolam systemic therapies,
including Midafresa and/or Dormicum.
10. Subjects who needed emergent surgical intervention and general anaesthesia/intubation.
11. Subjects who had been receiving human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease
12. inhibitors or HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
13. Subjects with severe cerebral anoxia (except cerebral palsy), in the judgment of the healthcare
provider.
14. Had  used  an  IP  or  been  enrolled  in  a  clinical  study  (including  vaccine  studies)  that,  in  the
investigator’s opinion, may impact this TDC Americas-sponsored study.
15. Subject had prior placement of a vagus nerve stimulator.
CHMP comments
The in- and exclusion criteria are largely in line with the criteria of previous study SHP615-301. 
Sample size 
The target sample size (at least 6 subjects) was estimated based on feasibility analysis rather than based 
on statistical rationale. 
Maximum  sample  size:  approximately  25  subjects.  Evaluable  sample  size  in  this  extension  study 
depended on the actual efficacy and safety of MHOS/SHP615 in the SHP615-301 study. 
Estimated minimum sample size: 25 × 0.585 (expected response rate in hospital) × 0.4 (60% expected 
drop-out rate from screening) = approximately 6 subjects. Based on the reported global clinical studies 
study data outside of Japan, expected response rate in hospital settings was conservatively estimated 
to be 58.5%. This was close to the lowest response rate reported in worldwide clinical studies. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 6/16 
Treatments 
The IP, MHOS/SHP615, was administered buccally by caregivers as a single, fixed-dose product, banded 
by age to subjects with SE (convulsive) in community settings.  
There were 4 dose regimens of the MHOS/SHP615 formulation for the treatment of SE; 1 dosage per 
buccal administration for each of the following age groups: 
• 2.5 mg: at least 6 months to less than 1 year (and weight >5 kg) 
• 5 mg: 1 year to less than 5 years 
• 7.5 mg: 5 years to less than 10 years 
• 10 mg: 10 years to less than 18 years 
Buccal  (oromucosal)  administration  was  considered  to  be  an  appropriate  route  to  be  progressed  to 
address the unmet need for a convenient, fast–acting product suitable for use in both the community 
and hospital settings. For buccal administration, midazolam was administered into the space between 
the lower gum and the inside of the cheek. 
Before dosing: 
• 
• 
• 
The airway was secured, and respiratory and cardiac function were assessed. 
The  caregiver  recorded  observations  on  the  seizure  activity  and  timing  of  the  seizure(s)  in  a 
study diary. 
The  caregiver  organized  emergency  transport,  and  the  subject  was  brought  to  the  study  site 
immediately (hospital or healthcare center), even if the seizure had stopped. 
Single-dose administration: 
• 
The caregiver was instructed to administer a single dose of MHOS/SHP615 after confirming that 
the  seizure  activity  was  appropriate  for  MHOS/SHP615  treatment  (e.g,  the  seizures  lasted  at 
least 5 minutes, or a second seizure occurred before recovery of consciousness from the first 
seizure, or 3 seizures occurred within 1 hour). 
•  Only  1  oral  syringe  with  the  specified  dose  was  given.  The  full  amount  of  the  MHOS/SHP615 
prefilled oral dosing syringe was administered slowly into the buccal mucosa. In some cases, it 
might have been necessary to divide the dose so that half of the solution was administered into 
each side of mouth. 
After dosing: 
• 
• 
• 
The  caregiver  recorded  observations  on  the  seizure  activity  and  timing  of  the  seizure(s)  in  a 
study diary. 
If the seizure had not stopped within 10 minutes of administration, and/or if a SAE emerged, 
then emergency medical assistance was sought. Note: A second or repeat dose of MHOS/SHP615 
was not given even if the seizure recurred after an initial response. 
In the event of a medical emergency, and if it was not possible to bring the subject to the study 
site,  the  caregiver  was  instructed  to  bring  the  subject  to  the  closest  emergency  medical 
institution so that the subject could receive treatment as quickly as possible. If this occurred, 
then the caregiver reported the incident and relevant information, including any rescue treatment 
received, to the investigator/study site within 1 week after the incident. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 7/16 
 
 
 
• 
• 
The  caregiver/parent  and  subject  visited  the  study  site  for  examination  after  MHOS/SHP615 
administration, even if the seizure had stopped. All subjects were followed up at study sites even 
if the seizure had resolved. 
The caregiver was instructed to save the used MHOS/SHP615 oral dosing syringe and bring it to 
the  study  site.  Any  dosing-related  errors,  such  as  leaking  liquid,  were  recorded  in  the  study 
diary. 
CHMP comments 
The treatment is the same as the registered product Buccolam in the EU (EMEA/H/C/002267).  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was response rate, which was defined as the percentage of subjects 
with therapeutic success. Therapeutic success was declared for subjects who met both of the following 
conditions: 
1.  Cessation  of  visible  seizure  activity  within  10  minutes,  ie,  the  time  from  MHOS/SHP615 
administration to the end of the initial seizure was less than or equal to 10 minutes. The initial 
seizure  referred  to  the  seizure  that  triggered  the  use  of  the  IP  and  that  was  captured  on  the 
“confirmation of status epilepticus” eCRF. 
2.  A  sustained  absence  of  visible  seizure  activity  for  30  minutes  following  a  single  dose  of 
MHOS/SHP615 without the need for additional rescue medication, ie, subject had no recurrence 
of  seizure  within  30  minutes  of  MHOS/SHP615  administration  as  documented  on  the  “subject 
seizure status (recurrence)” eCRF, and no rescue medication had been administered within 30 
minutes of IP administration (defined as the cessation of visible seizure activity within 10 minutes 
with  a  sustained  absence  of  visible  seizure  activity  for  30  minutes  following  a  single  dose  of 
MHOS/SHP615). 
The secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Percentage of subjects whose seizure event(s) stopped within 10 minutes after administration 
of MHOS/SHP615 and who had sustained absence of seizure activity for at least 1 hour, 4 hours, 
or 6 hours 
Time to resolution of seizures (convulsions) 
Time to recovery of consciousness 
Percentage  of  subjects  who  required  additional  anticonvulsant  medication  for  ongoing  SE 
according  to  the  participating  healthcare  setting  protocol  or  guideline,  10  minutes  after 
administration of MHOS/SHP615 
Percentage of subjects who failed to respond to treatment (treatment failure/nonresponder was 
defined  as continuing seizure activity  and/or the need for any  additional rescue medication in 
the  study  site  [or  another  emergency  medical  institution],  10  minutes  after  administration  of 
MHOS/SHP615) 
The endpoints related to safety were: 
•  Aspiration pneumonia 
•  Sedation or agitation as measured by the Riker Sedation-Agitation Scale (Riker SAS) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 8/16 
 
 
 
 
• 
Incidences/monitoring of TEAEs, vital sign measurements, laboratory tests, oxygen saturation, 
and ECGs 
•  Occurrence of buccal irritation 
CHMP comments 
Treatment  success  was  defined  as  cessation  of  visible  seizure  activity  <  10  minutes  with  sustained 
absence  for  30  minutes.  This  is  the  same  definition  of  treatment  success  used  in  the  previous  study 
SHP615-301, which evaluated oromucosal midazolam in an emergency room setting. Sustained absence 
for 30 minutes is shorter than the 1 hour sustained absence which was used in the studies discussed in 
the initial marketing authorisation for Buccolam. However, sustained absence over a longer duration is 
covered by the secondary endpoints. 
Statistical Methods 
Primary endpoint 
The  response  rate,  i.e.  therapeutic  success  will  be  expressed  in  percentages.  For  a  definition  of 
therapeutic success see previous section.  
Secondary endpoints 
Percentage  of  Subjects  Whose  Seizure  Event(s)  Stopped  Within  10  Minutes  After  Administration  of 
MHOS/SHP615 and who Had Sustained Absence of Seizure Activity for At Least 1 Hour/4 Hours/6 Hours 
The same definition of therapeutic success as given above was used, except that the second condition 
was  modified  to  require  sustained  absence  of  visible  seizure  activity  without  the  need  for  additional 
rescue  medication  for  1  hour,  4  hours,  or  6  hours,  respectively,  following  administration  of 
MHOS/SHP615. 
A listing presented the response status for subjects in the FAS. 
Time to Resolution of Seizures (Convulsions) 
Time to resolution of seizures (convulsions) in minutes was calculated as time from IP administration to 
the end of the initial seizure or administration of rescue anticonvulsant medication, whichever occurred 
first. The initial seizure referred to the seizure that triggered the use of the IP and that was captured on 
the “confirmation of status epilepticus” eCRF. 
Note that, as per the definition of the FAS, there was no censoring in this time to event analysis as all 
subjects had a date and time captured for the initial seizure cessation. 
A listing presented the event type (end of the initial seizure or administration of rescue anticonvulsant 
medication) and time to resolution of seizures (convulsions). 
Time to Recovery of Consciousness 
Time to recovery of consciousness in minutes was calculated only for subjects who lost consciousness 
pre-dose as the time from IP administration to recovery of consciousness postdose or administration of 
rescue anticonvulsant medication, whichever occurred first. If the time of recovery of consciousness was 
missing  and  there  was  no  administration  of  rescue  anticonvulsant  medication  during  the  24-hour 
treatment  period,  the  time  to  recovery  of  consciousness  was  censored  at  the  latest  time  of  any 
assessment captured in the eCRF up to hospital discharge during the 24-hour treatment period, ie, vital 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 9/16 
 
 
 
 
signs,  oxygen  saturation,  buccal  cavity  assessment,  Riker  Sedation-Agitation  Scale  (Riker  SAS), 
laboratory, ECG or time the subject was discharged from the hospital. 
A listing presented the event type (recovery of consciousness, administration of rescue anticonvulsant 
medication or censored) and time to recovery of consciousness. 
Percentage of Subjects Who Required Additional Anticonvulsant Medication for Ongoing SE 10 Minutes 
After Administration of MHOS/SHP615 
Anticonvulsant  medications  for  ongoing  SE  (rescue  treatment)  were  captured  on  the  “prior  and 
concomitant medications” eCRF. Subjects who required additional anticonvulsant medication for ongoing 
SE 10 minutes after IP administration and before the end of the initial seizure were listed. 
Percentage of Subjects Who Failed to Respond to Treatment 
A responder was defined as a subject with cessation of visible seizure activity within 10 minutes after 
administration  of  MHOS/SHP615.  A  treatment  failure/no  responder  was  defined  as  a  subject  with 
continuing seizure for more than 10 minutes after a single dose of MHOS/SHP615 or the need for any 
additional anticonvulsant rescue medication to treat the initial seizure any time after the single dose of 
MHOS/SHP615 according to the participating healthcare setting protocol or guideline. Any of the following 
events qualified as a treatment failure: 
• 
The time from IP administration to the end of the initial seizure was more than 10 minutes. The 
initial seizure referred to the seizure that triggered the use of the IP and that was captured on 
the “confirmation of status epilepticus” eCRF. 
•  Rescue  anticonvulsant  medication  was  administered  to  treat  the  initial  seizure  any  time  after 
MHOS/SHP615 administration. 
Subjects who failed to respond to treatment were listed. 
Sensitivity analyses 
Not applicable  
CHMP comments 
Results will be provided in a descriptive format; no statistical analyses were planned.  
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Subjects included in this study retained the subject numbers they were assigned in Study SHP615-301 
upon enrolment in Study SHP615-302. 
Twelve  subjects  were  screened  for  inclusion.  Of  these,  9  subjects  were  screen  failures  and  were 
withdrawn.  Overall,  3  subjects  provided  informed  consent  and  completed  Study  SHP615-301.  No 
subjects terminated early from the study (see table 1). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 10/16 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Patient Disposition (Screened Set) 
CHMP comments 
Out of the 12 subjects screened, 3 subjects were enrolled into the study and also completed the study.  
Baseline data 
Demographics 
Two subjects in the safety set were in the 5 to <10 years age group and 1 subject was in the 1 to <5 
years age group. 
History of epilepsy 
One subject had epilepsy with a genetic aetiology and a duration of 5.3 years. 
One subject had severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy and a duration of 5.3 years. 
One subject had epilepsy with a genetic aetiology and a duration of 2.7 years. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SHP615-301 qualifying seizure 
One  subject  presented  with  seizure  activity  and  3  or  more  convulsions  within  the  preceding  hour.  1 
subject presented with a single seizure lasting at least 5 minutes. 1 subject presented with convulsive 
seizure activity and 3 or more convulsions within the preceding hour. 
None of the 3 subjects was already hospitalized when the seizure occurred. 
Prior and concomitant medications 
One subject had received prior treatment with chloral hydrate as a sedative (stop date May 2018) and 
valproate  sodium  as  anticonvulsant  prophylaxis  (stop  date  June  2018),  and  was  receiving  ongoing 
treatment  with  levetiracetam,  lacosamide,  clobazam,  pyridoxal  phosphate,  and  stiripentol  as 
anticonvulsant prophylaxis and mucopolysaccharide polysulfuric acid ester for dry prevention. 
One  subject  had  received  prior  treatment  with  diazepam  on  April  2018  and  on  May  2018  as 
anticonvulsant  prophylaxis  and  had  received  intravenous  fluid  replacement  in  May  2018.  The  subject 
was receiving ongoing treatment with stiripentol, topiramate, clobazam, valproate sodium and potassium 
bromide  as  anticonvulsant  prophylaxis,  levocarnitine  for  carnitine  deficiency,  ferric  pyrophosphate  for 
iron replenishment, and hydrocortisone butyrate for dermatitis. The subject had received levocarnitine 
on August 2013. 
One  subject  had  received  lactomin  and  potassium  chloride  as  ongoing  treatment  for  constipation, 
ramelteon  and  triclofos  sodium  as  ongoing  treatment  for  insomnia,  zonisamide,  potassium  bromide, 
clobazam and diazepam as ongoing anticonvulsive treatment, and tipepidine hibenzate and carbocisteine 
for treatment of the common cold (stop date: December 2019). 
Efficacy results 
Primary endpoint 
Therapeutic success was defined as cessation of visible seizure activity within 10 minutes and sustained 
absence of visible seizure activity for 30 minutes following a single dose of MHOS/SHP615 without the 
need for additional rescue medication. All 3 subjects achieved therapeutic success at 30 minutes after 
dosing. 
CHMP comments 
All subjects achieved treatment success following a single dose of oromucosal midazolam.  
Secondary endpoints 
Subjects whose seizure event(s) stopped within 10 minutes of single dose of MHOS/SHP615 and who 
had sustained absence of seizure activity for at least 1 hour/4 hours/6 hours 
All three subjects achieved therapeutic success at 1 hour after dosing. 
For 1 subject, seizures recurred before the 4-hour postdose timepoint. The seizure during the treatment 
period (up to 6 hours postdose) was focal to bilateral tonic-clonic. 
For 1 subject, there was no recurrence of seizure activity, 0 to 6 hours postdose, 24 hours postdose or 
during follow-up. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
For 1 subject, seizures recurred before the 4-hour postdose timepoint. The seizure during the treatment 
period (up to 6 hours postdose) was focal onset-impaired awareness. 
Time to resolution of seizures (convulsions) 
For 1 subject, the seizure stopped within 1 minute of study drug administration. 
For 1 subject, the seizure stopped within 2 minutes of study drug administration. 
For 1 subject, the seizure stopped within 5 minutes of study drug administration. 
Time to recovery of consciousness 
One subject recovered consciousness 4 minutes after study drug administration. 
One subject recovered consciousness 143 minutes after study drug administration. 
One subject recovered consciousness 5 minutes after study drug administration. 
Subjects  who  required  additional  anticonvulsant  medication  for  ongoing  SE  10  minutes  after  a  single 
dose of MHOS/SHP615. 
No subject required additional anticonvulsant medication at any time after study drug administration. 
Subjects who failed to respond to treatment 
No subject failed to respond to treatment 
CHMP comments 
The secondary endpoints support the findings of the primary endpoint, i.e. fast cessation of seizures 
following study drug administration and subjects remain seizure free at least one hour.  
Safety results 
Two subjects each received a single 7.5 mg dose of MHOS/SHP615, consistent with the age group of 
these subjects. 
One subject received a single 5 mg dose of MHOS/SHP615, consistent with the age group of this subject. 
Primary safety endpoint 
The  primary  safety  endpoint  was  respiratory  depression,  characterized  by  a  decrease  in  oxygen 
saturation and an increase in respiratory effort. No subject reported respiratory depression. 
Adverse events 
Overall, 4 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported for 2 subjects. 
For 1 subject, no TEAEs were reported. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 13/16 
See table 2 for an overview of adverse events. 
Table 2 Summary of Adverse Events 
Subject A 
Subject B 
Descriptions of adverse events 
For 1 subject, a single event of mild somnolence was reported which started on the day of study drug 
administration, had a duration of 2 days and was considered by the investigator to be related to study 
drug. No other TEAEs were reported for this subject. 
For 1 subject, 3 TEAEs were reported: 
•  Nausea,  which  started  and  stopped  on  the  same  day.  This  event  started  on  the  same  day  as 
study  drug  administration,  was  mild  in  severity  and  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be 
related to study drug treatment. 
•  Vomiting, which started and stopped on the same day. This event started on the same day as 
study  drug  administration,  was  mild  in  severity  and  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be 
related to study drug treatment. 
•  Upper respiratory tract infection, which started and stopped within 7 days. This event started 7 
days after study drug administration, was mild in severity and was considered by the investigator 
to be not related to study drug treatment. 
Serious adverse events 
No treatment-emergent SAEs occurred during this study. One SAE was reported during the period prior 
to study drug administration. 
For 1 subject, febrile convulsion was reported, which started 22 days before study drug administration 
and  stopped  within  2  days.  This  event  was  not  a  TEAE  but  was  reported  as  an  SAE  due  to  initial  or 
prolonged hospitalization. The event was moderate severity and was considered by the investigator to 
be not related to study drug treatment. 
Other safety related endpoints 
Riker sedation-Agitation Scale 
The Riker SAS was to be performed 30 minutes postdose if possible, and at 1 hour, 4 hours, 6 hours, 
and 24 hours postdose. The Riker SAS ranges from 1 to 7. A score of 1 indicates “unarousable”, a score 
of 4 indicates “calm and cooperative”, and a score of 7 indicates “dangerous agitation”. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The Riker SAS score for 1 subject was 5-agitated 1-hour postdose and 4-calm and cooperative 
4 hours and 6 hours postdose. 
The  Riker  SAS  score  for  1  subject  was  2-very  sedated  30  minutes  and  1-hour  postdose,  3- 
sedated 4 hours and 6 hours postdose, and 4-calm and cooperative 24 hours postdose. 
The  Riker  score  for  1  subject  was  4-calm  and  cooperative,  1-hour,  4-hours,  6-hours  and  24-
hours postdose. 
Post marketing safety experience 
Limited post-marketing safety experience was discussed by the MAH in the clinical overview regarding 
risk of off-label use. As this is considered outside of the scope of a pdWS this is not discussed further.  
CHMP comments 
Adverse  events  reported  to  be  related  to  study  drug  administration  were  nausea,  vomiting  and 
sleepiness. All events were considered mild and either resolved on the same day or 2 days thereafter. 
These adverse reactions are well known to be associated with midazolam and are also included in section 
4.8 of the Buccolam SmPC.  
There was one serious adverse event of febrile convulsions. However, this event occurred prior to study 
drug dosing, hence it is agreed with the Investigators that this is unrelated to the study drug.   
With  regard  to  the  Riker  sedation-agitation  scale,  all  subjects  reported  a  score  of  4  (calm  and 
cooperative) at 24 hours after study drug dosing. One subject initially had scores indicating a high level 
of sedation up to 6 hours post dose. This is not surprising as the subject took the longest to recover 
consciousness after the dose of study drug (143 minutes, see p. 14). Nevertheless, the subject reached 
the same level of alertness (4- calm and cooperative) at 24 hours, same as the other subjects.   
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study  SHP615-302  was  an  open  label  study  designed  to  evaluate  use  of  a  single  dose  of  oromucosal 
midazolam (Buccolam) for seizure cessation in an outpatient setting in Japan. The study was in essence 
a follow up study to SHP615-301, which evaluated oromucosal midazolam in an emergency room setting. 
Both studies are intended to support approval of Buccolam in Japan. 
The study population consisted of 3 subjects who completed the previous study SHP615-301. No formal 
statistical testing was performed, the results of the endpoints were provided in a descriptive manner.  
The  definition  of  the  primary  endpoint  therapeutic  success  is  the  same  as  the  endpoint  used  in  the 
previous Japanese study. Seizure cessation had to be sustained for at least 30 minutes and this is shorter 
than the 1hour mark used in the previous studies that supported the approval of Buccolam in de EU (see 
Buccolam EPAR, EMEA/H/C/002267). However, seizure cessation up to 6 hours is covered by a secondary 
endpoint.  
All three subjects received a single dose of Buccolam in accordance with the posology for their age group 
and all completed the study. Therapeutic success, i.e. seizure cessation within 10 minutes and absence 
of further seizures up to 30 minutes was reached for all three subjects. All subjects remained seizure 
free for at least an hour, which is in line with the studies described in the Buccolam EPAR. 
Due to the open label design of the study, no formal conclusions on efficacy can be made. However, the 
results of the study are considered in line with the previous findings described in the Buccolam EPAR. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
With regard to safety, two subjects reported adverse events of sleepiness, nausea and vomiting. These 
are  well-known  adverse  reactions  of  Buccolam  and  are  described  in  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC.  There 
appears to be no new safety signals identified with use of oromucosal midazolam in a Japanese outpatient 
setting. However due to the small sample size (n=3) no definitive conclusions can be drawn.   
Taken  together,  study  SHP615-302  which  evaluated  oromucosal  midazolam  for  seizure  cessation  in  a 
Japanese  outpatient  setting  appears  in  line  with  the  findings  reported  previously  with  Buccolam. 
However, due to the open label design and small sample size, no definitive conclusions can be drawn 
with regard to efficacy and safety.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Study  SHP615-302  was  an  open  label  extension  study  which  evaluated  a  single  dose  of  oromucosal 
midazolam in a Japanese outpatient setting. The study enrolled 3 subjects whom all achieved seizure 
resolution within 10 minutes after midazolam administration and remained seizure free for at least 30 
minutes. Adverse events reported were in line with what has been described previously in the Buccolam 
SmPC. Due to the open label design and small sample size, no conclusions can be drawn with regards to 
efficacy and safety, though the study results are in line with previous observations with Buccolam. As 
such no further regulatory action is considered necessary.  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/442285/2021  
Page 16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
