EMA/675941/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. (budesonide / 
formoterol) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V., 
which details the measures to be taken in order to ensure that Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma 
B.V. is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V., which can be found on Budesonide-Formoterol Teva 
Pharma B.V.’s EPAR page.   
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is used in adults to treat asthma. 
Asthma 
Asthma is a common, life-long inflammatory disease of the airways that affects children and adults of 
all ages. It is one of the most common chronic diseases worldwide, and can be life-threatening. 
Symptoms come and go and include shortness of breath, wheezing, chest tightness and cough. The 
cause of asthma is unknown; however, a family history of asthma, eczema or allergy makes it more 
likely that an individual will develop asthma. 
Estimates of the prevalence in European countries range from around 10 to 13% in the UK to 0.28% in 
Georgia. There is evidence that its prevalence has considerably increased in recent years, especially in 
children. Across the world, the number of deaths related to asthma is estimated at around 250,000 per 
year. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. contains two active substances, budesonide and formoterol: 
 
budesonide belongs to a group of medicines called ‘corticosteroids’. It works by reducing and 
preventing swelling and inflammation in the lungs. 
 
formoterol belongs to a group of medicines called ‘long-acting beta2-adrenoceptor agonists’ 
(LABAs) or ‘bronchodilators’. It works by relaxing the muscles in the airways. This helps to breathe 
more easily. 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ containing the same active substances, but Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma 
B.V. is given using a different inhaler. Because Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is a hybrid 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as those of Symbicort Turbohaler, the 
Page 1/7 
 
 
 
 
reference medicine. Studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine that Budesonide-
Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is bioequivalent to the reference medicine (two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body). Clinical studies 
have shown that the addition of formoterol to budesonide improved symptoms and lung function, and 
reduced exacerbations with asthma. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. has not been studied in children or adolescents under the 
age of 18 years. There are no data available for use of budesonide/formoterol in patients with reduced 
liver and kidney function. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risks 
What is known 
Preventability 
Systemic 
Budesonide is a glucocorticosteroid 
Budesonide/formoterol should be used 
glucocorticosteroid 
and shares the actions of this class 
exactly as instructed by a doctor or 
effects (systemic 
of hormones. Corticosteroids used 
pharmacist. Patients should check with 
means that the 
at high doses for a long time can 
their doctor or pharmacist if they are 
medicine is carried 
lead to the following:  
not sure. 
 
changes in bone mineral 
Patients should talk to their doctor or 
density (thinning of the 
pharmacist before using 
throughout the body in 
the bloodstream from 
the site of application 
and have general 
bones); 
rather than only local 
 
cataract (clouding of the lens 
effects) 
in the eye); 
 
glaucoma (high pressure in 
the eye); 
budesonide/formoterol if they have 
problems with the thyroid or adrenal 
glands. 
Patients should tell their doctor or 
pharmacist if they are taking steroid 
medicines taken by mouth (such as 
 
a slowing of the rate of growth 
prednisolone). 
of children and adolescents; 
If patients have been taking steroid 
 
an effect on the adrenal gland 
tablets for asthma, the doctor may 
(a small gland next to the 
reduce the number of tablets being 
kidney); 
taken when treatment with 
 
restlessness, nervousness or 
agitation; 
budesonide/formoterol is started. If 
patients have been taking oral steroid 
tablets for a long time, the doctor may 
 
 
 
 
disturbed sleep; 
carry out blood tests from time to time. 
bruising of the skin; 
The doctor may consider adding steroid 
depression; 
tablets to the usual treatment during 
periods of stress (for example, during a 
changes in behaviour, 
chest infection or before an operation). 
especially in children. 
These effects are much less likely 
to happen with inhaled 
corticosteroids than with 
Page 2/7 
 
 
corticosteroid tablets. 
Heart problems due to 
Formoterol is a LABA and shares 
Patients should talk to their doctor or 
formoterol (which 
the actions of this class of 
pharmacist before using 
belongs to a class of 
‘bronchodilators’. 
budesonide/formoterol if they have: 
medicines called long-
acting adrenergic beta 
2 receptor agonists or 
LABAs) 
Palpitations (awareness of the 
  high blood pressure, or have ever 
heart beating) have been reported 
had a heart problem (including an 
commonly with 
uneven heartbeat, a very fast 
budesonide/formoterol (affecting 
pulse, narrowing of the arteries or 
less than 1 in 10 people), fast 
heart failure); 
heartbeat uncommonly (affecting 
less than 1 in 100 people), chest 
pain or tightness in the chest 
 
problems with the thyroid or 
adrenal glands; 
(angina pectoris) very rarely 
 
low levels of potassium in the 
(affecting less than 1 in 10,000 
blood. 
people), and uneven heart beat 
rarely (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 
people). 
Patients should tell their doctor or 
pharmacist if they are taking any of the 
following medicines: 
  medicines for a fast or uneven 
heart beat (such as quinidine, 
disopyramide and procainamide); 
  medicines like digoxin, often used 
to treat heart failure; 
 
tricyclic antidepressants (such as 
amitriptyline) and the 
antidepressant nefazodone; 
  medicines called monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors (such as 
phenelzine, furazolidone and 
procarbizine); 
 
phenothiazine medicines (such as 
chlorpromazine); 
  medicines for Parkinson’s disease 
(such as levodopa); 
  medicines for thyroid problems 
(such as levothyroxine); 
  medicines for allergies or 
antihistamines (such as 
terfenadine); 
 
diuretics, also known as ‘water 
tablets’ (such as furosemide), used 
to treat high blood pressure; 
 
steroid medicines taken by mouth 
Page 3/7 
 
 
(such as prednisolone); 
 
xanthine medicines (such as 
theophylline or 
aminophylline),often used to treat 
asthma; 
 
other bronchodilators (such as 
salbutamol). 
The levels of potassium in the blood 
may be monitored if patients suffer 
from unstable asthma with variable use 
of rescue bronchodilators, from acute 
severe asthma or from other conditions 
associated with low potassium levels. 
Life-threatening and 
Serious asthma-related adverse 
If asthma symptoms remain 
fatal asthma events 
events and exacerbations may 
uncontrolled or worsen after initiating 
with long-acting 
occur during treatment. 
therapy with budesonide/formoterol, 
adrenergic beta 2 
receptor agonists 
(LABAs) 
patients should continue treatment and 
see their doctor as soon as possible. 
A sudden temporary 
As with other inhalation therapies, 
If symptoms occur, patients should 
narrowing of the 
a paradoxical bronchospasm can 
stop using budesonide/formoterol 
airways (paradoxical 
occur with budesonide/formoterol, 
straight away and use their “reliever” 
bronchospasm) 
causing an immediate increase in 
inhaler. They should also contact their 
wheezing, shortness of breath and 
doctor immediately as they may need 
cough after dosing. 
to have their treatment changed. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm was 
reported very rarely in patients 
taking budesonide/formoterol 
(may affect up to 1 in 10,000 
people). 
Low blood levels of 
Low levels of potassium in the 
Patients should talk to their doctor or 
potassium 
blood have been reported rarely 
pharmacist before using 
(hypokalaemia) which 
(may affect up to 1 in 1,000 
budesonide/formoterol if they have low 
can cause muscle 
people) in patients taking 
levels of potassium in the blood. 
weakness, twitching or 
budesonide/formoterol. 
abnormal heart rhythm 
Patients should tell their doctor or 
pharmacist if they are taking any 
medicines that can lower the amount of 
potassium in the blood: 
 
diuretics, also known as ‘water 
tablets’ (such as furosemide). 
These are used to treat high blood 
pressure.  
 
steroid medicines that are taken by 
mouth (such as prednisolone). 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
xanthine medicines (such as 
theophylline or aminophylline). 
These are often used to treat 
asthma.  
 
other bronchodilators (such as 
salbutamol). 
Patients should tell their doctor if they 
experience muscle weakness, twitching 
or abnormal heart rhythm. 
The levels of potassium in the blood 
may be monitored if patients suffer 
from unstable asthma with variable use 
of rescue bronchodilators, from acute 
severe asthma or from other conditions 
associated with low potassium levels. 
Important potential risks 
Risks 
What is known  
Off-label use in children and 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. should not be used in 
adolescents under 18 years 
children and adolescents under the age of 18 years. 
(unlicensed use of medicine) 
The risk of off-label use arises from the fact that the reference 
product Symbicort Turbohaler is approved for treatment of asthma 
as a maintenance therapy in children 6 years and older. 
Potential for off-label use of the 
Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. 320/9 micrograms (mcg) 
highest strength (320/9.0) of 
should not be used as a reliever inhaler. There is a potential safety 
budesonide/formoterol in the 
concern if the 320/9.0 mcg strength is used to substituted directly 
“maintenance and reliever 
for the 160/4.5 mcg strength, given the recommended maximum 
therapy regimen” 
number of daily inhalations (12) with the maintenance and reliever 
approach. If the highest strength were used this way, this would 
expose patients to a high dose of budesonide and formoterol. 
Simultaneous use with 
Budesonide/formoterol may interact with certain medicines that are 
medicines called ‘beta-
potent inhibitors of CYP3A4: 
adrenergic blockers’ and ‘strong 
inhibitors of CYP3A4’ 
  medicines to treat infections (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
voriconazole, posaconazole, clarithromycin and telithromycin); 
  medicines called ‘HIV-protease inhibitors’ (e.g. ritonavir) to 
treat HIV infection; 
 
the anti-depressant nefazodone. 
These medicines are likely to markedly increase blood levels of 
budesonide and potentially induce systemic glucocorticosteroid 
effects of budesonide/formoterol. 
Beta-blocker medicines (such as atenolol or propranolol used to 
treat high blood pressure), including eye drops (such as timolol for 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
glaucoma), may weaken or inhibit the effect of formoterol and 
therefore of budesonide/formoterol as well. 
Patients should tell their doctor or pharmacist if they are taking, 
have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in pregnant or breastfeeding 
There are no data from studies with budesonide/formoterol in 
women 
pregnant women. During pregnancy, budesonide/formoterol should 
only be used when the benefits outweigh the potential risks.  
Budesonide passes into breast milk. It is not known whether 
formoterol passes into human breast milk. Use of 
budesonide/formoterol in women who are breastfeeding should 
only be considered if the expected benefit to the mother is greater 
than any possible risk to the child. 
Use in patients with reduced 
There are no data available on the use of Budesonide-Formoterol 
kidney function 
Teva Pharma B.V. in patients with reduced kidney function. 
Use in patients with reduced 
There are no data available on the use of Budesonide-Formoterol 
liver function 
Teva Pharma B.V. in patients with reduced liver function. As 
budesonide and formoterol are mostly broken down in the liver, 
patients with severe liver problems (e.g. severe liver cirrhosis) may 
be exposed to higher levels of these medicines. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The safety and efficacy of Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma 
B.V. in children and adolescents has not yet been established. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Budesonide-Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. can be found on Budesonide-Formoterol 
Teva Pharma B.V.’s EPAR page.   
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activity 
(including 
study number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns 
/efficacy issue 
addressed  
Status  
Planned date 
for 
submission 
of (interim 
and) final 
results  
A paediatric / 
To demonstrate 
Pharmacokinetic and 
Planned (start of 
Not available  
adolescent 
that the 
safety profiles of 
the study is 
pharmacokinetic 
pharmacokinetic 
budesonide/formoter
anticipated for Q4 
study (a study of 
and safety profile of 
ol (80/4.5 mcg) in 
2014) 
what happens to 
budesonide/formote
mild asthmatic 
the drug in the 
rol (80/4.5 mcg) is 
children and 
body, including 
comparable with 
adolescents is not yet 
its movement  
the reference 
determined  
and its 
product Symbicort 
metabolism) 
Turbohaler (100/6 
mcg) 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable 
This summary was last updated in 10-2014. 
Page 7/7 
 
 
