ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of concentrate contains 6 mg of busulfan (60 mg in 10 ml). 
After dilution: 1 ml of solution contains 0.5 mg of busulfan 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear, colourless viscous solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Busulfan followed by cyclophosphamide (BuCy2) is indicated as conditioning treatment prior to 
conventional haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in adult patients when the 
combination is considered the best available option. 
Busulfan following fludarabine (FB) is indicated as conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic 
progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in adult patients who are candidates for a reduced-intensity 
conditioning (RIC) regimen. 
Busulfan followed by cyclophosphamide (BuCy4) or melphalan (BuMel) is indicated as conditioning 
treatment prior to conventional haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation in paediatric patients. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Busulfan administration should be supervised by a physician experienced in conditioning treatment 
prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation. 
Busulfan is administered prior to the haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT). 
Posology 
Busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide or melphalan  
In adults 
The recommended dose and schedule of administration is: 
-  0.8 mg/kg body weight (BW) of busulfan as a two-hour infusion every 6 hours over 4 consecutive 
- 
days for a total of 16 doses, 
followed by cyclophosphamide at 60 mg/kg/day over 2 days initiated for at least 24 hours 
following the 16th dose of busulfan (see section 4.5). 
Paediatric population (0 to 17 years)  
The recommended dose of busulfan is as follows: 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Actual body weight (kg) 
< 9 
9 to < 16 
16 to 23 
> 23 to 34 
> 34 
Busulfan dose (mg/kg) 
1.0 
1.2 
1.1 
0.95 
0.8 
followed by: 
-  4 cycles of 50 mg/kg body weight (BW) cyclophosphamide (BuCy4) or 
-   one administration of 140 mg/m² melphalan (BuMel) 
initiated for at least 24 hours following the 16th dose of busulfan (see section 4.5). 
Busulfan is administered as a two-hour infusion every 6 hours over 4 consecutive days for a total of 
16 doses prior to cyclophosphamide or melphalan and haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation 
(HPCT). 
Elderly patients 
Patients older than 50 years of age (n=23) have been successfully treated with busulfan without  
dose-adjustment. However, for the safe use of busulfan in patients older than 60 years only limited 
information is available. Same dose (see section 5.2) for elderly patients as for adults (< 50 years old) 
should be used. 
Busulfan in combination with fludarabine (FB) 
In adults  
The recommended dose and schedule of administration is: 
- 
fludarabine administered as a single daily one-hour infusion at 30 mg/m² for 5 consecutive 
days or 40 mg/m² for 4 consecutive days. 
-  Busulfan will be administered at 3.2 mg/kg as a single daily three-hour infusion immediately 
after fludarabine for 2 or 3 consecutive days.  
Paediatric population (0 to 17 years) 
The safety and efficacy of FB in pediatric population has not been established. 
Elderly patients 
The administration of FB regimen has not been specifically investigated in elderly patients. However, 
more than 500 patients aged ≥ 55 years were reported in publications with FB conditioning regimens, 
yielding efficacy outcomes similar to younger patients. No dose adjustment was deemed necessary.  
Obese patients 
In adults 
For obese patients, dosing based on adjusted ideal body weight (AIBW) should be considered. 
Ideal body weight (IBW) is calculated as follows: 
IBW men (kg) = 50 + 0.91x (height in cm-152); 
IBW women (kg) = 45 + 0.91x (height in cm-152). 
Adjusted ideal body weight (AIBW) is calculated as follows: 
AIBW= IBW + 0.25x (actual body weight-IBW). 
In paediatric population 
The medicinal product is not recommended in obese children and adolescents with body mass index 
Weight (kg)/ (m2) > 30 kg/m² until further data become available. 
Patients with renal impairment 
Studies in renally impaired patients have not been conducted, however, as busulfan is moderately 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
excreted in the urine, dose modification is not recommended in these patients. 
However, caution is recommended (see sections 4.8 and 5.2). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
Busulfan has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Caution is recommended, particularly in those patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 
4.4). 
Method of administration 
Busulfan is for intravenous use. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
This medicinal product must be diluted prior to administration. A final concentration of approximately 
0.5 mg/ml busulfan should be achieved. Busulfan should be administered by intravenous infusion via 
central venous catheter. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
Busulfan should not be given by rapid intravenous, bolus or peripheral injection. 
All patients should be pre-medicated with anticonvulsant medicinal products to prevent seizures 
reported with the use of high dose busulfan. 
It is recommended to administer anticonvulsants 12 h prior to busulfan to 24 h after the last dose of 
busulfan. 
In adult and paediatric studies, patients received either phenytoin or benzodiazepines as seizure 
prophylaxis treatment (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Antiemetics should be administered prior to the first dose of busulfan and continued on a fixed schedule 
according to local practice through its administration. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
The consequence of treatment with busulfan at the recommended dose and schedule is profound 
myelosuppression, occurring in all patients. Severe granulocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, or 
any combination thereof may develop. Frequent complete blood counts, including differential white 
blood cell counts, and platelet counts should be monitored during the treatment and until recovery is 
achieved. 
Prophylactic or empiric use of anti-infectives (bacterial, fungal, viral) should be considered for the 
prevention and management of infections during the neutropenic period. Platelet and red blood cell 
support, as well as the use of growth factors such as granulocyte colony stimulating agent (G-CSF), 
should be employed as medically indicated. 
In adults, absolute neutrophil counts < 0.5x109/l at a median of 4 days post transplant occurred in 100% 
of patients and recovered at median day 10 and 13 days following autologous and allogeneic transplant 
respectively (median neutropenic period of 6 and 9 days respectively). 
Thrombocytopenia (< 25x109/l or requiring platelet transfusion) occurred at a median of 5-6 days in 
98% of patients. Anaemia (haemoglobin< 8.0 g/dl) occurred in 69% of patients. 
In paediatric population, absolute neutrophil counts < 0.5x109/l at a median of 3 days post transplant 
occurred in 100% of patients and lasted 5 and 18.5 days in autologous and allogeneic transplant 
respectively. In children, thrombocytopenia (< 25x109/l or requiring platelet transfusion) occurred in 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100% of patients. Anaemia (haemoglobin< 8.0 g/dl) occurred in 100% of patients. 
In children < 9 kg, a therapeutic drug monitoring may be justified on a case by case basis, in particular 
in extremely young children and neonates (see section 5.2). 
The Fanconi anaemia cells have hypersensitivity to cross-linking agents. There is limited clinical 
experience of the use of busulfan as a component of a conditioning regimen prior to HSCT in children 
with Fanconi’s anaemia. Therefore busulfan should be used with caution in this type of patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
Busulfan has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Since busulfan is mainly 
metabolized through the liver, caution should be observed when busulfan is used in patients with 
pre-existing impairment of liver function, especially in those with severe hepatic impairment. 
It is recommended when treating these patients that serum transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, and 
bilirubin should be monitored regularly 28 days following transplant for early detection of 
hepatotoxicity. 
Hepatic veno-occlusive disease is a major complication that can occur during treatment with busulfan. 
Patients who have received prior radiation therapy, greater than or equal to three cycles of 
chemotherapy, or prior progenitor cell transplant may be at an increased risk (see section 4.8). 
Caution should be exercised when using paracetamol prior to (less than 72 hours) or concurrently with 
busulfan due to a possible decrease in the metabolism of busulfan (See section 4.5). 
As documented in clinical studies, no treated patients experienced cardiac tamponade or other specific 
cardiac toxicities related to busulfan. However cardiac function should be monitored regularly in 
patients receiving busulfan (see section 4.8). 
Occurrence of acute respiratory distress syndrome with subsequent respiratory failure associated with 
interstitial pulmonary fibrosis was reported in busulfan studies in one patient who died, although, no 
clear aetiology was identified. In addition, busulfan might induce pulmonary toxicity that may be 
additive to the effects produced by other cytotoxic agents. Therefore, attention should be paid to this 
pulmonary issue in patients with prior history of mediastinal or pulmonary radiation (see section 4.8). 
Periodic monitoring of renal function should be considered during therapy with busulfan (see section 
4.8). 
Seizures have been reported with high dose busulfan treatment. Special caution should be exercised 
when administering the recommended dose of busulfan to patients with a history of seizures. Patients 
should receive adequate anticonvulsant prophylaxis. In adults and children studies, data with busulfan 
were obtained when using concomitant administration of either phenytoin or benzodiazepines for 
seizure prophylaxis. The effect of those anticonvulsant agents on busulfan pharmacokinetics was 
investigated in a phase II study (see section 4.5). 
The increased risk of a second malignancy should be explained to the patient. On the basis of human 
data, busulfan has been classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as a 
human carcinogen. The World Health Organisation has concluded that there is a causal relationship 
between busulfan exposure and cancer. Leukaemia patients treated with busulfan developed many 
different cytological abnormalities, and some developed carcinomas. Busulfan is thought to be 
leukemogenic. 
Fertility 
Busulfan can impair fertility. Therefore, men treated with busulfan are advised not to father a child 
during and up to 6 months after treatment and to seek advice on cryo-conservation of sperm prior to 
treatment because of the possibility of irreversible infertility due to therapy with busulfan. 
Ovarian suppression and amenorrhoea with menopausal symptoms commonly occur in 
pre-menopausal patients. Busulfan treatment in a pre-adolescent girl prevented the onset of puberty 
due to ovarian failure. Impotence, sterility, azoospermia, and testicular atrophy have been reported in 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
male patients. The solvent dimethylacetamide (DMA) may also impair fertility. DMA decreases 
fertility in male and female rodents (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). 
Cases of thrombotic microangiopathy after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), including fatal 
cases, have been reported in high-dose conditioning regimens in which busulfan was administered in 
combination with another conditioning treatment. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific clinical trial was carried out to assess drug-drug interaction between intravenous busulfan 
and itraconazole or metronidazole. From published studies in adults, administration of itraconazole to 
patients receiving high-dose busulfan may result in reduced busulfan clearance. Also, there are 
published case reports of increased plasma levels of busulfan after administration of metronidazole. 
Patients who are concurrently treated with busulfan and itraconazole or metronidazole should be 
closely monitored for signs of busulfan toxicity. 
No interaction was observed when busulfan was combined with fluconazole (antifungal agent). 
Published studies in adults described that ketobemidone (analgesic) might be associated with high 
levels of plasma busulfan. Therefore special care is recommended when combining these two 
compounds. 
In adults, for the BuCy2 regimen it has been reported that the time interval between the last oral 
busulfan administration and the first cyclophosphamide administration may influence the development 
of toxicities. A reduced incidence of Hepatic Veno Occlusive Disease (HVOD) and other 
regimen-related toxicity have been observed in patients when the lag time between the last dose of oral 
busulfan and the first dose of cyclophosphamide is > 24hours. 
There is no common metabolism pathway between busulfan and fludarabine.  
In adults, for the FB regimen, published studies did not report any mutual drug-drug interaction 
between intravenous busulfan and fludarabine. 
In paediatric population, for the BuMel regimen it has been reported that the administration of 
melphalan less than 24 hours after the last oral busulfan administration may influence the development 
of toxicities. 
Increases in busulfan exposure have been observed at concomitant administration of busulfan and 
deferasirox. The mechanism behind the interaction is not fully elucidated. It is recommended to 
regularly monitor busulfan plasma concentrations and, if necessary, adjust the busulfan dose in patients 
who are or have recently been treated with deferasirox. 
Paracetamol is described to decrease glutathione levels in blood and tissues, and may therefore decrease 
busulfan clearance when used in combination (see section 4.4). 
Either phenytoin or benzodiazepines were administered for seizure prophylaxis in patients 
participating to the clinical trials conducted with intravenous busulfan (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
The concomitant systemic administration of phenytoin to patients receiving high-dose of oral busulfan 
has been reported to increase busulfan clearance, due to induction of glutathion-S-transferase whereas 
no interaction has been reported when benzodiazepines such as diazepam, clonazepam or lorazepam 
have been used to prevent seizures with high-dose busulfan. 
No evidence of an induction effect of phenytoin has been seen on busulfan data. 
A phase II clinical trial was performed to evaluate the influence of seizure prophylaxis treatment on 
intravenous busulfan pharmacokinetics. In this study, 24 adult patients received clonazepam 
(0.025-0.03 mg/kg/day as IV continuous infusions) as anticonvulsant therapy and the PK data of these 
patients were compared to historical data collected in patients treated with phenytoin. The analysis of 
data through a population pharmacokinetic method indicated no difference on intravenous busulfan 
clearance between phenytoin and clonazepam based therapy and therefore similar busulfan plasma 
exposures were achieved whatever the type of seizure prophylaxis. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No interaction was observed when busulfan was combined with 5 HT3 antiemetics such as ondansetron 
or granisetron. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during and up to 6 months after 
treatment. 
Pregnancy 
HPCT is contraindicated in pregnant women; therefore, busulfan is contraindicated during pregnancy. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (embryo-foetal lethality and malformations) (see 
section 5.3) 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of busulfan or DMA in pregnant women. A few 
cases of congenital abnormalities have been reported with low-dose oral busulfan, not necessarily 
attributable to the active substance, and third trimester exposure may be associated with impaired 
intrauterine growth. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether busulfan and DMA are excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for 
tumorigenicity shown for busulfan in human and animal studies, breast-feeding should be 
discontinued during treatment with busulfan. 
Fertility 
Busulfan and DMA can impair fertility in man or woman. Therefore it is advised not to father child 
during the treatment and up to 6 months after treatment and to seek advice on cryo-conservation of 
sperm prior to treatment because of the possibility of irreversible infertility (see section 4.4). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide or melphalan  
In adults 
Adverse reactions information is derived from two clinical trials (n=103) of busulfan. 
Serious toxicities involving the haematologic, hepatic and respiratory systems were considered as 
expected consequences of the conditioning regimen and transplant process. These include infection and 
Graft-versus host disease (GVHD) which although not directly related, were the major causes of 
morbidity and mortality, especially in allogeneic HPCT. 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Myelo-suppression and immuno-suppression were the desired therapeutic effects of the conditioning 
regimen. Therefore all patients experienced profound cytopenia: leucopenia 96%, thrombocytopenia 
94%, and anemia 88%. The median time to neutropenia was 4 days for both autologous and allogeneic 
patients. The median duration of neutropenia was 6 days and 9 days for autologous and allogeneic 
patients. 
Immune system disorders 
The incidence of acute graft versus host disease (a-GVHD) data was collected in OMC-BUS-4 study 
(allogeneic)(n=61). A total of 11 patients (18%) experienced a-GVHD. The incidence of a-GVHD 
grades I-II was 13% (8/61), while the incidence of grade III-IV was 5% (3/61). Acute GVHD was rated 
as serious in 3 patients. Chronic GVHD (c-GVHD) was reported if serious or the cause of death, and 
was reported as the cause of death in 3 patients. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections and infestations 
39% of patients (40/103) experienced one or more episodes of infection, of which 83% (33/40) were 
rated as mild or moderate. Pneumonia was fatal in 1% (1/103) and life-threatening in 3% of patients. 
Other infections were considered severe in 3% of patients. Fever was reported in 87% of patients and 
graded as mild/moderate in 84% and severe in 3%. 47% of patients experienced chills which were 
mild/moderate in 46% and severe in 1%. 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
15% of SAEs involved liver toxicity. HVOD is a recognized potential complication of conditioning 
therapy post-transplant. Six of 103 patients (6%) experienced HVOD. HVOD occurred in: 8.2% (5/61) 
allogeneic patients (fatal in 2 patients) and 2.5% (1/42) of autologous patients. Elevated bilirubin (n=3) 
and elevated AST (n=1) were also observed. Two of the above four patients with serious serum 
hepatotoxicity were among patients with diagnosed HVOD. 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: 
One patient experienced a fatal case of acute respiratory distress syndrome with subsequent respiratory 
failure associated with interstitial pulmonary fibrosis in the busulfan studies. 
Paediatric population 
Adverse reactions information are derived from the clinical study in paediatrics (n=55). Serious 
toxicities involving the hepatic and respiratory systems were considered as expected consequences of 
the conditioning regimen and transplant process. 
Immune system disorders 
The incidence of acute graft versus host disease (a-GVHD) data was collected in allogeneic patients 
(n=28). A total of 14 patients (50%) experienced a-GVHD. The incidence of a-GVHD grades I-II was 
46.4% (13/28), while the incidence of grade III-IV was 3.6% (1/28). Chronic GVHD was reported only 
if it is the cause of death: one patient died 13 months post-transplant. 
Infections and infestations 
Infections (documented and non documented febrile neutropenia) were experienced in 89% of patients 
(49/55). Mild/moderate fever was reported in 76% of patients. 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Grade 3 elevated transaminases were reported in 24% of patients. 
Veno occlusive disease (VOD) was reported in 15% (4/27) and 7% (2/28) of the autologous and 
allogenic transplant respectively. VOD observed were neither fatal nor severe and resolved in all cases. 
Busulfan in combination with fludarabine (FB)  
In adults 
The safety profile of busulfan combined with fludarabine (FB) has been examined through a review of 
adverse reactions reported in published data from clinical trials in RIC regimen. In these studies, a total 
of 1574 patients received FB as a reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen prior to haematopoietic 
progenitor cell transplantation.  
Myelo-suppression and immuno-suppression were the desired therapeutic effects of the conditioning 
regimen and consequently were not considered undesirable effects. 
Infections and infestations  
The occurrence of infectious episodes or reactivation of opportunistic infectious agents mainly reflects 
the immune status of the patient receiving a conditioning regimen.  
The most frequent infectious adverse reactions were Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation [range: 
30.7% - 80.0%], Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) reactivation [range: 2.3% - 61%], bacterial infections 
[range: 32.0% - 38.9%] and viral infections [range: 1.3% - 17.2%]. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
The highest frequency of nausea and vomiting was 59.1% and the highest frequency of stomatitis was 
11%. 
Renal and urinary disorders 
It has been suggested that conditioning regimens containing fludarabine were associated with higher 
incidence of opportunistic infections after transplantation because of the immunosuppressive effect of 
fludarabine. Late haemorrhagic cystitis occurring 2 weeks post-transplant are likely related to viral 
infection / reactivation. Haemorrhagic cystitis including haemorrhagic cystitis induced by viral 
infection was reported in a range between 16% and 18.1%.  
Hepato-biliary disorders 
VOD was reported with a range between 3.9% and 15.4%. 
The treatment-related mortality/non-relapse mortality (TRM/NRM) reported until day+100 post-
transplant has also been examined through a review of published data from clinical trials. It was 
considered as deaths that could be attributable to secondary side effects after HPCT and not related to 
the relapse/progression of the underlying haematological malignancies.  
The most frequent causes of reported TRM/NRMs were infection/sepsis, GVHD, pulmonary disorders 
and organ failure. 
Tabulated lists of adverse reactions 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100, < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000, 
< 1/100) or not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Undesirable effects coming from 
post-marketing survey have been implemented in the tables with the incidence “not known”. 
Busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide or melphalan  
Adverse reactions reported both in adults and paediatric patients as more than an isolated case are listed 
below, by system organ class and by frequency. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
System organ 
class 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Infections and 
infestations 
Rhinitis 
Pharyngitis 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Anaemia 
Pancytopenia 
Allergic reaction 
Hyponatraemia 
Anorexia 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hypophosphatemia 
9 
Hypogonadism** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Delirium 
Nervousness 
Hallucination 
Agitation 
Seizure 
Encephalopathy 
Cerebral 
haemorrhage 
Ventricular 
Extrasystoles 
Bradycardia 
Femoral 
artery 
thrombosis 
Capillary leak 
syndrome 
Hypoxia 
Cataract Corneal 
thinning 
Lens 
disorders*** 
Interstitial lung  
disease** 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage 
Tooth 
hypoplasia** 
System organ 
class 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Anxiety 
Depression 
Insomnia 
Confusion 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac-disorders  Tachycardia 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
Thrombosis 
Vasodilatation 
Dyspnoea 
Epistaxis 
Cough 
Hiccup 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepato-biliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Stomatitis 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Dyspepsia 
Ascites 
Constipation 
Anus discomfort 
Hepatomegaly 
Jaundice 
Rash 
Pruritis 
Alopecia 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Myalgia 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
Dysuria 
Oligurea 
Arrhythmia 
Atrial fibrillation 
Cardiomegaly 
Pericardial 
effusion 
Pericarditis 
Hyperventilation 
Respiratory 
failure 
Alveolar 
haemorrhages 
Asthma 
Atelectasis 
Pleural effusion 
Haematemesis 
Ileus 
Oesophagitis 
Veno occlusive 
liver disease * 
Skin 
desquamation 
Erythema 
Pigmentation 
disorder 
Haematuria 
Moderate renal 
insufficiency 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ 
class 
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Premature 
menopause 
Ovarian failure** 
Asthenia 
Chills 
Fever 
Chest pain 
Oedema 
Oedema general 
Pain 
Pain or 
inflammation at 
injection site 
Mucositis 
Transaminases 
increased 
Bilirubin increased 
GGT increased 
Alkaline 
phosphatases 
increased 
Weight increased 
Abnormal breath 
sounds 
Creatinine elevated 
Bun increase 
Decrease ejection 
fraction 
*veno occlusive liver disease is more frequent in paediatric population. 
** reported in post marketing with IV busulfan 
*** reported in post marketing with oral busulfan 
Busulfan in combination with fludarabine (FB) 
The incidence of each adverse reactions presented in the following table has been defined according to 
the highest incidence observed in published clinical trials in RIC regimen for which the population 
treated with FB was clearly identified, whatever the schedules of busulfan administrations and 
endpoints. Adverse reactions reported as more than an isolated case are listed below, by system organ 
class and by frequency.   
System organ class 
Very common 
Common 
Not known*  
Infections and 
infestations 
Viral infection  
CMV reactivation 
EBV reactivation 
Bacterial infection 
Invasive fungal 
infection  
Pulmonary infection 
Brain abscess 
Cellulitis 
Sepsis 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Electrolyte disturbance 
Hyperglycaemia 
11 
Febrile neutropenia 
Anorexia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Very common 
Common 
Not known*  
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastro-intestinal 
disorders 
Hepato-biliary 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Headache 
Nervous system 
disorders [Not 
Elsewhere 
Classified] 
Hyper-tension 
Pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Stomatitis 
Veno occlusive liver disease 
Rash 
Agitation 
Confusional state 
Hallucination 
Cerebral 
haemorrhage 
Encephalo-pathy 
Atrial fibrillation 
Respiratory failure 
Gastro-intestinal 
haemorrhage 
Tooth hypoplasia* 
Jaundice 
Liver disorders 
Haemorrhagic cystitis** 
Renal disorder 
Oliguria 
Mucositis 
Transaminases increased 
Bilirubine increased 
Alkaline phosphatases increased  
Creatinine elevated 
Asthenia 
Oedema 
Pain 
Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase 
increased 
Blood uric acid 
increased  
Blood urea increased 
GGT increased 
Weight increased 
* reported in post-marketing experience 
** include haemorrhagic cystitis induced by viral infection 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. 
It allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. 
Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The principal toxic effect is profound myeloablation and pancytopenia but the central nervous system, 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liver, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract may also be affected. 
There is no known antidote to busulfan other than haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation. 
In the absence of haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation, the recommended dose of busulfan 
would constitute an overdose of busulfan. The haematologic status should be closely monitored and 
vigorous supportive measures instituted as medically indicated. 
There have been two reports that busulfan is dialyzable, thus dialysis should be considered in the case 
of an overdose. Since, busulfan is metabolized through conjugation with glutathione, administration of 
glutathione might be considered. 
It must be considered that overdose of busulfan will also increase exposure to DMA. In human the 
principal toxic effects were hepatotoxicity and central nervous system (CNS) effects. CNS changes 
precede any of the more severe side effects. No specific antidote for DMA overdose is known. 
In case of overdose, management would include general supportive care. 
5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, alkylating agents, alkyl sulfonates, ATC code: 
L01AB01.  
Mechanism of action 
Busulfan is a potent cytotoxic agent and a bifunctional alkylating agent. In aqueous media, release of 
the methanesulphonate groups produces carbonium ions which can alkylate DNA, thought to be an 
important biological mechanism for its cytotoxic effect. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide 
In adults 
Documentation on the safety and efficacy of busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide in the 
BuCy2 regimen prior to conventional allogeneic and/or autologous HPCT derives from two clinical 
trials (OMC-BUS-4 and OMC-BUS-3). 
Two prospective, single arm, open-label, uncontrolled phase II studies were conducted in patients with 
haematological disease, the majority of whom had advanced disease. 
Diseases included were acute leukaemia past first remission, in first or subsequent relapse, in first 
remission (high risk), or induction failures; chronic melogenous leukaemia in chronic or advanced 
phase; primary refractory or resistant relapsed Hodgkin’s disease or non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and 
myelodysplastic syndrome. 
Patients received doses of 0.8 mg/kg busulfan every 6 hours infusion for a total 16 doses followed by 
cyclophosphamide at 60 mg/kg once per day for two days (BuCy2 regimen). 
The primary efficacy parameters in these studies were myeloablation, engraftment, relapse, and 
survival. 
In both studies, all patients received a 16/16 dose regimen of busulfan. No patients were discontinued 
from treatment due to adverse reactions related to busulfan. 
All patients experienced a profound myelosuppression. The time to Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) 
greater than 0.5x109 /l was 13 days (range 9-29 days) in allogenic patients (OMC-BUS 4), and 10 days 
(range 8-19 days) in autologous patients (OMC-BUS 3). All evaluable patients engrafted. There is no 
primary nor secondary graft rejection. Overall mortality and non-relapse mortality at more than 
100 days post-transplant was (8/61) 13% and (6/61) 10% in allotransplanted patients, respectively. 
During the same period there was no death in autologous recipients. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Documentation of the safety and efficacy of busulfan in combination with cyclophosphamide in the 
BuCy4 or with melphalan in the BuMel regimen prior to conventional allogeneic and/or autologous 
HPCT derives from clinical trial F60002 IN 101 G0. 
The patients received the dosing mentioned in section 4.2. 
All patients experienced a profound myelosuppression. The time to Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) 
greater than 0.5x109/l was 21 days (range 12-47 days) in allogenic patients, and 11 days (range 10-15 
days) in autologous patients. All children engrafted. There is no primary or secondary graft rejection. 
93% of allogeneic patients showed complete chimerism. There was no regimen-related death through 
the first 100-day post-transplant and up to one year post-transplant. 
Busulfan in combination with fludarabine (FB)  
In adults 
Documentation on the safety and efficacy of busulfan in combination with fludarabine (FB) prior to 
allogeneic HPCT derives from the literature review of 7 published studies involving 731 patients with 
myeloid and lymphoid malignancies reporting the use of intravenous busulfan infused once daily 
instead of four doses per day.  
Patients received a conditioning regimen based on the administration of fludarabine immediately 
followed by single daily dose of 3.2 mg/kg busulfan over 2 or 3 consecutive days. Total dose of 
busulfan per patient was between 6.4 mg/kg and 9.6 mg/kg. 
The FB combination allowed sufficient myeloablation modulated by the intensity of conditioning 
regimen through the variation of number of days of busulfan infusion. Fast and complete engraftment 
rates in 80-100% of patients were reported in the majority of studies. A majority of publications 
reported a complete donor chimerism at day+30 for 90-100% of patients. The long-term outcomes 
confirmed that the efficacy was maintained without unexpected effects.  
Data from a recently completed prospective multicentre phase 2 study including 80 patients, aged 18 to 
65 years old, diagnosed with different hematologic malignancies who underwent allo-HCT with an FB 
(3 days of busulfan) reduced intensity conditioning regimen became available. In this study, all, but one, 
patients engrafted, at a median of 15 (range, 10-23) days after allo-HCT. The cumulative incidence of 
neutrophil recovery at day 28 was 98.8% (95%CI, 85.7-99.9%). Platelet engraftment occurred at a 
median of 9 (range, 1-16) days after allo-HCT.  
The 2-year OS rate was 61.9% (95%CI, 51.1-72.7%)]. At 2 years, the cumulative incidence of NRM 
was 11.3% (95%CI, 5.5-19.3%), and that of relapse or progression from allo-HCT was 43.8% (95CI, 
31.1-55.7%). The Kaplan-Meier estimate of DFS at 2 years was 49.9% (95%CI, 32.6-72.7). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of busulfan has been investigated. The information presented on 
biotransformation and elimination is based on oral busulfan. 
Pharmacokinetics in adults 
Absorption 
The pharmacokinetics of intravenous busulfan was studied in 124 evaluable patients following a 
2-hour intravenous infusion for a total of 16 doses over four days. Immediate and complete 
availability of the dose is obtained after intravenous infusion of busulfan. Similar blood exposure 
was observed when comparing plasma concentrations in adult patients receiving oral and intravenous 
busulfan at 1 mg/kg and 0.8 mg/kg respectively. Low inter (CV=21%) and intra (CV=12%) patient 
variability on busulfan exposure was demonstrated through a population pharmacokinetic analysis, 
performed on 102 patients. 
Distribution 
Terminal volume of distribution Vz ranged between 0.62 and 0.85 l/kg. 
Busulfan concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid are comparable to those in plasma although these 
concentrations are probably insufficient for anti-neoplastic activity. 
Reversible binding to plasma proteins was around 7% while irreversible binding, primarily to albumin, 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was about 32%. 
Biotransformation 
Busulfan is metabolised mainly through conjugation with glutathione (spontaneous and 
glutathione-S-transferase mediated). The glutathione conjugate is then further metabolised in the liver 
by oxidation. None of the metabolites is thought to contribute significantly to either efficacy or 
toxicity. 
Elimination 
Total clearance in plasma ranged 2.25 - 2.74 ml/minute/kg. The terminal half-life ranged from 2.8 to 
3.9 hours. 
Approximately 30% of the administered dose is excreted into the urine over 48 hours with 1% as 
unchanged busulfan. Elimination in faeces is negligible. Irreversible protein binding may explain the 
incomplete recovery. Contribution of long-lasting metabolites is not excluded. 
Linearity 
The dose proportional increase of busulfan exposure was demonstrated following intravenous busulfan 
up to 1 mg/kg. 
Compared to the four times a day regimen, the once-daily regimen is characterized by a higher peak 
concentration, no drug accumulation and a wash out period (without circulating busulfan 
concentration) between consecutive administrations. The review of the literature allows a comparison 
of PK series performed either within the same study or between studies and demonstrated unchanged 
dose-independent PK parameters regardless the dosage or the schedule of administration. It seems that 
the recommended intravenous busulfan dose administered either as an individual infusion (3.2 mg/kg) 
or into 4 divided infusions (0.8 mg/kg) provided equivalent daily plasma exposure with similar both 
inter-and intrapatient variability. As a result, the control of intravenous busulfan AUC within the 
therapeutic windows is not modified and a similar targeting performance between the two schedules 
was illustrated. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships 
The literature on busulfan suggests a therapeutic AUC window between 900 and 1500 µmol/L.minute 
per administration (equivalent to a daily exposure between 3600 and 6000 µmol/L.minute). During 
clinical trials with intravenous busulfan administered as 0.80 mg/kg four-times daily, 90% of patients 
AUCs were below the upper AUC limit (1500 µmol/L.minute) and at least 80% were within the 
targeted therapeutic window (900 - 1500 µmol/L.minute). Similar targeting rate is achieved within the 
daily exposure of 3600 - 6000 µmol/L.minute following the administration of intravenous busulfan 
3.2 mg/kg once daily. 
Special populations 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
The effects of renal dysfunction on intravenous busulfan disposition have not been assessed. 
The effects of hepatic dysfunction on intravenous busulfan disposition have not been assessed. 
Nevertheless the risk of liver toxicity may be increased in this population. 
No age effect on busulfan clearance was evidenced from available intravenous busulfan data in 
patients over 60 years. 
Paediatric population 
A continuous variation of clearance ranging from 2.52 to 3.97 ml/minute/kg has been established in 
children from < 6 months up to 17 years old. The terminal half life ranged from 2.24 to 2.5 h. 
Inter and intra patient variabilities in plasma exposure were lower than 20% and 10%, respectively. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis has been performed in a cohort of 205 children adequately 
distributed with respect to bodyweight (3.5 to 62.5 kg), biological and diseases (malignant and 
non-malignant) characteristics, thus representative of the high heterogeneity of children undergoing 
HPCT. This study demonstrated that bodyweight was the predominant covariate to explain the busulfan 
pharmacokinetic variability in children over body surface area or age. 
The recommended posology for children as detailed in section 4.2 enabled over 70% up to 90% of 
children ≥ 9kg in achieving the therapeutic window (900 - 1500 µmol/L.minute). However a higher 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
variability was observed in children < 9 kg leading to 60% of children achieving the therapeutic 
window (900 - 1500 µmol/L.minute). For the 40% of children < 9 kg outside the target, the AUC 
was evenly distributed either below or above the targeted limits; i.e. 20% each < 900 and 
> 1500 µmol/L.min following 1 mg/kg. In this regard, for children < 9 kg, a monitoring of the 
plasma concentrations of busulfan (therapeutic drug monitoring) for dose-adjustment may improve 
the busulfan targeting performance, especially in extremely young children and neonates. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships: 
The successful engraftment achieved in all patients during phase II trials suggests the appropriateness 
of the targeted AUCs. Occurrence of VOD was not related to overexposure. PK/PD relationship was 
observed between stomatitis and AUCs in autologous patients and between bilirubin increase and 
AUCs in a combined autologous and allogeneic patient analysis. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Busulfan is mutagenic and clastogenic. Busulfan was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium, 
Drosophila melanogaster and barley. Busulfan induced chromosomal aberrations in vitro (rodent and 
human cell) and in vivo (rodents and humans). Various chromosome aberrations have been observed in 
cells from patients receiving oral busulfan. 
Busulfan belongs to a class of substances which are potentially carcinogenic based on their mechanism 
of action. On the basis of human data, busulfan has been classified by the IARC as a human 
carcinogen. WHO has concluded that there is a causal relationship between busulfan exposure and 
cancer. The available data in animals support the carcinogenic potential of busulfan. Intravenous 
administration of busulfan to mice significantly increased the incidences of thymic and ovarian 
tumours. 
Busulfan is a teratogen in rats, mice and rabbits. Malformations and anomalies included significant 
alterations in the musculoskeletal system, body weight gain, and size. In pregnant rats, busulfan 
produced sterility in both male and female offspring due to the absence of germinal cells in testes and 
ovaries. Busulfan was shown to cause sterility in rodents. Busulfan depleted oocytes of female rats, 
and induced sterility in male rats and hamster. 
Repeated doses of DMA produced signs of liver toxicity, the first being increases in serum clinical 
enzymes followed by histopatological changes in the hepatocytes. Higher doses can produce hepatic 
necrosis and liver damage can be seen following single high exposures. 
DMA is teratogenic in rats. Doses of 400 mg/kg/day DMA administered during organogenesis caused 
significant developmental anomalies. The malformations included serious heart and/or major vessels 
anomalies: a common truncus arteriosis and no ductus arteriosis, coarctation of the pulmonary trunk 
and the pulmonary arteries, intraventricular defects of the heart. Other frequent anomalies included 
cleft palate, anasarca and skeletal anomalies of the vertebrae and ribs. DMA decreases fertility in male 
and female rodents. A single s.c. dose of 2.2 g/kg administered on gestation day 4 terminated 
pregnancy in 100% of tested hamster. In rats, a DMA daily dose of 450 mg/kg given to rats for nine 
days caused inactive spermatogenesis. 
6 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Dimethylacetamide 
Macrogol 400 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6. 
Due to incompatibility, do not use any infusion components containing polycarbonate with busulfan.  
6.3  Shelf life 
Vials 
 2 years. 
Diluted solution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after dilution in glucose 5% or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection has been demonstrated for: 
- 
- 
8 hours (including infusion time) after dilution when stored at 25°C ± 2°C 
12 hours after dilution when stored at 2°C-8°C followed by 3 hours stored at 25°C ± 2°C 
(including infusion time). 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately after dilution. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the 
user and would normally not be longer than the above-mentioned conditions when dilution has taken 
place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze the diluted solution. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
10 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion in clear colourless glass vials (type I) with teflon faced 
rubber stopper and sealed with aluminium flip-off seal. Each vial is sleeved with shrinkable plastic 
film. 
Pack size 
1 pack containing 8 vials (8 cartons of 1 vial). 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer medicinal products should be considered. 
All transfer procedures require strict adherence to aseptic techniques, preferably employing a vertical 
laminar flow safety hood. 
As with other cytotoxic compounds, caution should be exercised in handling and preparing the busulfan 
solution: 
- 
- 
The use of gloves and protective clothing is recommended. 
If the concentrate or diluted busulfan solution contacts the skin or mucosa, wash them thoroughly 
with water immediately. 
Calculation of the quantity of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to be diluted and of the diluent 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be diluted prior to use with either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The quantity of the diluent must be 10 times the volume of the Busulfan Fresenius Kabi ensuring the 
final concentration of busulfan remains at approximately 0.5 mg/ml. By example: 
The amount of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi and diluent to be administered would be calculated as follows: 
for a patient with a Y kg body weight: 
• 
Quantity of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi: 
Y (kg) x D (mg/kg)  
= A ml of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to be diluted 
6 (mg/ml) 
Y: body weight of the patient in kg 
D: dose of busulfan (see section 4.2) 
• 
Quantity of diluent: 
(A ml Busulfan Fresenius Kabi) x (10) = B ml of diluent 
To prepare the final solution for infusion, add (A) ml of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to (B) ml of diluent 
(sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%)  
Preparation of the solution for infusion 
• 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be prepared by a healthcare professional using sterile transfer 
techniques. Using a non polycarbonate syringe fitted with a needle: 
- 
- 
the calculated volume of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be removed from the vial. 
the contents of the syringe must be dispensed into an intravenous bag (or syringe) which 
already contains the calculated amount of the selected diluent. Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
must always be added to the diluent, not the diluent to the Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must not be put into an intravenous bag that does not contain 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%. 
• 
The diluted solution must be mixed thoroughly by inverting several times.  
After dilution, 1 ml of solution for infusion contains 0.5 mg of busulfan. 
Diluted Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is a clear colourless solution. 
Instructions for use 
Prior to and following each infusion, flush the indwelling catheter line with approximately 5 ml of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose (5%) solution for injection. 
The residual medicinal product must not be flushed in the administration tubing as rapid infusion of 
busulfan has not been tested and is not recommended. 
The entire prescribed busulfan dose should be delivered over two or three hours depending of the 
conditioning regimen. 
Small volumes may be administered over 2 hours using electric syringes. In this case infusion sets with 
minimal priming space should be used (i.e 0.3-0.6 ml), primed with medicinal product solution prior to 
beginning the actual busulfan infusion and then flushed with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
for injection or glucose (5%) solution for injection. 
Busulfan must not be infused concomitantly with another intravenous solution.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No infusion components containing polycarbonate must be used with busulfan.  
Only a clear solution without any particles should be used. 
Busulfan is for single use only. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of 
in accordance with local requirements for cytotoxic medicinal products. 
7  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kröner-Straße 1, 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Höhe 
Germany 
8  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/951/001 
9 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 September 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 20 June 2019 
10  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of European Medicinal 
Agency http://www.ema/europa.eu 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Pfingstweide 53 
61169 Friedberg 
Germany  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of 
Product Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of  PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the 
list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions 
detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk 
profile or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) 
milestone being reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at 
the same time. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON containing 8 vials  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
busulfan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One ml of concentrate contains 6 mg of busulfan and provides 0.5 mg/ml of busulfan after dilution 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Dimethylacetamide and Macrogol 400 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
 8 vials of 10 ml 
60 mg per vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kröner-Straße 1, 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Höhe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/951/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA  
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
CARTON containing 1 vial  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
busulfan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One ml of concentrate contains 6 mg of busulfan and provides 0.5 mg/ml of busulfan after dilution 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Dimethylacetamide and Macrogol 400 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 10 ml.  
60 mg per vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kröner-Straße 1, 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Höhe 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/951/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
busulfan 
IV after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
60 mg/10 ml 
6.  OTHER 
Cytotoxic 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
busulfan 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How to use Busulfan Fresenius Kabi  
Possible side effects 
How to store Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is and what it is used for 
This medicine contains the active substance busulfan, which belongs to a group of medicines called 
alkylating agents. Busulfan Fresenius Kabi destroys the original bone marrow before the transplant. 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is used in adults, new-born infants, children and adolescents as a treatment 
prior to transplantation. 
In adults Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is used in combination with cyclophosphamide or fludarabine. 
In new-born infants, children and adolescents, this medicine is used in combination with 
cyclophosphamide or melphalan. 
You will receive this preparative medicine before receiving a transplant of either bone marrow or 
haematopoietic progenitor cell. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Do not use Busulfan Fresenius Kabi: 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to busulfan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine listed in section 6. 
if you are pregnant, or think you may be pregnant. 
Warnings and precautions 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is a potent cytotoxic medicine that results in profound decrease of blood cells. 
At the recommended dose, this is the desired effect. Therefore careful monitoring will be performed.  
It is possible that use of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi may increase the risk of suffering another 
malignancy in the future. You should tell your doctor: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have a liver, kidney, heart or lung problem, 
if you have a history of seizures, 
if you are currently taking other medicines. 
Cases of formation of blood clots in the small blood vessels may appear after hematopoietic cell 
transplantation (HCT) with high-dose of your treatment in combination with other medicines. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently taken or might take any other medicines, including 
medicines obtained without a prescription. Busulfan Fresenius Kabi may interact with other medicines. 
Particular caution should be taken if you use itraconazol and metronidazole (used for certain 
types of infections) or ketobemidone (used to treat pain) or deferasirox (a medicine used to 
remove excess iron from your body), because this may increase the side-effects. 
The use of paracetamol during the 72 hours prior to or with Busulfan Fresenius Kabi administration 
should be used with caution. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor before you receive treatment with Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. Women must not be 
pregnant during treatment with Busulfan Fresenius Kabi and up to 6 months after treatment. 
Women must stop breast-feeding before starting their treatment with Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. 
Adequate contraceptive precautions should be used when either partner is receiving Busulfan Fresenius 
Kabi. 
It may no longer be possible for you to achieve a pregnancy (infertility) after treatment with Busulfan 
Fresenius Kabi. If you are concerned about having children, you should discuss this with your doctor 
before treatment. Busulfan Fresenius Kabi can also produce symptoms of menopause and in 
pre-adolescent girls it can prevent the onset of puberty. 
Men treated with Busulfan Fresenius Kabi are advised not to father child during and up to 6 months after 
treatment. 
3. 
How to use Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Dose and administration 
The dose of busulfan will be calculated according to your body weight. 
In adults: 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi in combination with cyclophosphamide: 
-  The recommended dose of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is 0.8 mg/kg  
− 
− 
Each infusion will last 2 hours 
Busulfan will be administered every 6 hours during 4 consecutive days prior to transplant. 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi in combination with fludarabine 
− 
− 
− 
The recommended dose of busulfan is 3.2 mg/kg 
Each infusion will last 3 hours 
Busulfan will be administered once daily during 2 or 3 consecutive days prior to transplant. 
In new-born infants, children and adolescents (0 to 17 years): 
The recommended dose of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi in combination with cyclophosphamide or 
melphalan is based on your body weight varying between 0.8 and 1.2 mg/kg. 
Medicines before you receive Busulfan Fresenius Kabi: 
Before receiving Busulfan Fresenius Kabi, you will be medicated with 
- 
- 
anticonvulsive medicines to prevent seizures (phenytoin or benzodiazepines) and 
antiemetic medicines to prevent vomiting. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Busulfan Fresenius Kabi can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects: 
The most serious side effects of busulfan therapy or the transplant procedure may include decrease in 
circulating blood cell counts (intended effect of the medicine to prepare you for your transplant 
infusion), infection, liver disorders including blocking of a liver vein, graft versus host disease (the graft 
attacks your body) and pulmonary complications. Contact your doctor immediately if you get any of the 
following symptoms. Your doctor will monitor your blood counts and liver enzymes regularly to detect 
and manage these events. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Blood: decrease of blood circulating cells (red and white) and platelets. Infections.  Nervous system: 
insomnia, anxiety, dizziness, and depression. Nutrition: loss of appetite, decrease in magnesium, 
calcium, potassium, phosphate, albumine in blood, and increase in blood sugar. Cardiac: increase in 
heart rate, increase or decrease of blood pressure, vasodilatation (a state of increased calibre of the 
blood vessels), and blood clots. Respiratory: shortness of breath, nasal secretion (rhinitis), sore throat, 
cough, hiccup, nosebleeds, abnormal breath sounds. Gastro-intestinal: nausea, inflammation of the 
mucosa of the mouth, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, constipation, heart burn, anus discomfort, 
liquid in the abdomen. Hepatic: enlarged liver, jaundice, blocking of a liver vein. Skin: rash, itching, 
loss of hairs. Muscle and bone: back, muscle and joint pain. Renal: increase in creatinine elimination, 
discomfort in urination, and decrease in urine output and bloody urine. General: fever, headache, 
weakness, chills, pain, allergic reaction, oedema, general pain or inflammation at injection site, chest 
pain, inflammation of the mucosa. Investigations: elevated liver enzymes and weight increased. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Nervous system: confusion, nervous system disorders. Nutrition: low blood sodium. Cardiac: 
changes and abnormalities in heart rhythm, fluid retention or inflammation around the heart, decrease 
heart output. Respiratory: increase in breath rhythm, respiratory failure, alveolar haemorrhages, 
asthma, collapse of small portions of the lung, fluid around the lung. Gastro-intestinal: inflammation 
of the mucosa of oesophagus, paralysis of the gut, vomiting blood. Skin: Skin colour disorder, redness 
of the skin, skin desquamation. Renal: increase in the amount of nitrogen components in the blood 
stream, moderate renal insufficiency, renal disorder. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Nervous system: delirium, nervousness, hallucination, agitation, abnormal brain function, cerebral 
haemorrhage, and seizure. Cardiac: clotting of femoral artery, extra heart beats, decrease in heart rate, 
diffuse leak of fluid from the capillaries (small blood vessels). Respiratory: decrease in blood oxygen. 
Gastro-intestinal: bleeding in the stomach and/or the gut. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Sex glands dysfunction 
Lens disorders including clouding of the lens of the eye (cataract), and blurred vision (corneal 
thinning) 
Menopausal symptoms and female infertility. 
Brain abscess, Inflammation of the skin, generalised infection. 
Liver disorders. 
Increase of lactate dehydrogenase in the blood. 
Increase of uric acid and urea in the blood. 
Incomplete development of teeth 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and the carton after EXP. 
Unopened vials: 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Diluted solution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after dilution in glucose 5% or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection has been demonstrated for 8 hours (including infusion time) after dilution when 
stored at 25°C ± 2°C or 12 hours after dilution when stored at 2°C-8°C followed by 3 hours stored at 
25°C ± 2°C (including infusion time). Do not freeze. 
Do not throw away any medicine via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how 
to throw away medicine you no longer use. These measures will help protect environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Busulfan Fresenius Kabi contains 
- 
The active substance is busulfan. One ml of concentrate contains 6 mg busulfan (60 mg in the 
vial). After dilution: one ml of solution contains approximately 0.5 mg of busulfan. 
The other ingredients are dimethylacetamide and macrogol 400. 
- 
What Busulfan Fresenius Kabi looks like and contents of the pack 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi consists of a concentrate for solution for infusion. When diluted Busulfan 
Fresenius Kabi is a clear colourless viscous solution.  
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is supplied in colourless glass vials, each vial containing 60 mg of busulfan. 
Each vial is sleeved with shrinkable plastic film. 
Each vial contains 10 ml of concentrate. 
Pack size 
1 pack containing 8 vials (8 cartons of 1 vial). 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Else-Kröner-Straße 1, 
61352 Bad Homburg v.d.Höhe 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH 
Pfingstweide 53 
61169 Friedberg 
Germany  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of European Medicinal 
Agency http://www.ema/europa.eu 
34 
 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only 
PREPARATION GUIDE 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
Busulfan 
Read this guide prior to the preparation and administration of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. 
1. 
PRESENTATION 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is supplied as a clear colourless viscous solution in 10 ml clear, colourless 
glass vials (type I). Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be diluted prior to administration. 
2. 
RECOMMENDATION FOR SAFE HANDLING 
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer medicinal products should be considered. 
All transfer procedures require strict adherence to aseptic techniques, preferably employing a vertical 
laminar flow safety hood. 
As with other cytotoxic compounds, caution should be exercised in handling and preparing the busulfan 
solution: 
- 
- 
The use of gloves and protective clothing is recommended. 
If the concentrate or diluted busulfan solution contacts the skin or mucosa, wash them thoroughly 
with water immediately. 
Calculation of the quantity of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to be diluted and of the diluent 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be diluted prior to use with either sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%. 
The quantity of the diluent must be 10 times the volume of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi ensuring the final 
concentration of busulfan remains at approximately 0.5 mg/ml. 
The amount of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi and diluent to be administered would be calculated as follows: 
for a patient with a Y kg body weight: 
• 
Quantity of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi: 
Y (kg) x D (mg/kg)  
= A ml of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to be diluted 
6 (mg/ml) 
Y: body weight of the patient in kg 
D: dose of busulfan (see SPC section 4.2) 
• 
Quantity of diluent: 
(A ml Busulfan Fresenius Kabi) x (10) = B ml of diluent 
To prepare the final solution for infusion, add (A) ml of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi to (B) ml of diluent 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%). 
Preparation of the solution for infusion 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be prepared by a healthcare professional using sterile transfer techniques.  
•  Using a non polycarbonate syringe fitted with a needle: 
- 
- 
the calculated volume of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must be removed from the vial. 
the contents of the syringe must be dispensed into an intravenous bag (or syringe) which 
already contains the calculated amount of the selected diluent. Busulfan Fresenius Kabi must 
always be added to the diluent, not the diluent to the Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. Busulfan 
Fresenius Kabi must not be put into an intravenous bag that does not contain sodium chloride 
9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose solution for injection 5%. 
• 
The diluted solution must be mixed thoroughly by inverting several times. 
After dilution, 1 ml of solution for infusion contains 0.5 mg of busulfan. 
Diluted Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is a clear colourless solution 
Instructions for use 
Prior to and following each infusion, flush the indwelling catheter line with approximately 5 ml of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose (5%) solution for injection. 
The residual medicinal product must not be flushed in the administration tubing as rapid infusion of 
busulfan has not been tested and is not recommended. 
The entire prescribed busulfan dose should be delivered over two or three hours depending on the 
conditioning regimen. 
Small volumes may be administered over 2 hours using electric syringes. In that case infusion sets with 
minimal priming space should be used (i.e 0.3-0.6 ml), primed with medicinal product solution prior to 
beginning the actual busulfan infusion and then flushed with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
for injection or glucose (5%) solution for injection. 
Busulfan must not be infused concomitantly with another intravenous solution.  
Due to incompatibility, do not use infusion components containing polycarbonate with busulfan. 
For single use only. Only a clear solution without particles should be used. 
Storage conditions 
Unopened vials: 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Diluted solution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after dilution in glucose 5% or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for injection has been demonstrated for 8 hours (including infusion time) after dilution when 
stored at 25°C ± 2°C or 12 hours after dilution when stored at 2°C-8°C followed by 3 hours stored at 
25°C ± 2°C (including infusion time). 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately after dilution. 
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user and would 
normally not be longer than the above-mentioned conditions when dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze the diluted solution. 
3. 
PROCEDURE FOR PROPER DISPOSAL 
Any unused medicinal product or waste should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements for 
cytotoxic medicinal products. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
