EMA/660126/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004651 
Buvidal (buprenorphine) 
An overview of Buvidal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Buvidal and what is it used for? 
Buvidal is a medicine used to treat dependence on opioid (narcotic) drugs such as heroin or morphine. 
Buvidal is used in adults and adolescents aged over 16 years who are also receiving medical, social and 
psychological support.  
Buvidal contains the active substance buprenorphine and is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is 
similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the same active substance, but Buvidal is given in a 
different way.  
The reference medicine for Buvidal is Subutex. While Subutex is available as sublingual tablets (tablets 
to be placed under the tongue), Buvidal is available as a solution for injection under the skin. 
How is Buvidal used? 
Buvidal is given as an injection under the skin, either once a week or once a month. 
It can only be obtained with a prescription and can only be given by a healthcare professional. Patients 
cannot take the medicine home or inject it themselves. 
The first dose of Buvidal is given when the patient shows clear signs of withdrawal. For patients 
dependent on short-acting opioids (e.g. morphine or heroin), the first dose is given at least 6 hours 
after the patient last used an opioid. For patients dependent on long-acting opioids (e.g. methadone), 
the dose of methadone is reduced to below 30 mg per day before starting Buvidal. The first dose of 
Buvidal is given at least 24 hours after the patient last used methadone. 
Patients who have never taken buprenorphine before should be given a 4 mg buprenorphine tablet and 
be monitored for one hour before being given Buvidal, to make sure they tolerate the medicine. These 
patients should be started on weekly doses of Buvidal before moving to monthly injections. Patients 
who have taken buprenorphine before may be switched directly to weekly or monthly Buvidal 
injections. 
The dose of Buvidal can be adjusted and patients can be switched between weekly and monthly 
injections according to the patient’s need and the judgement of the treating doctor.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For more information about using Buvidal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Buvidal work? 
The active substance in Buvidal, buprenorphine, is a partial opioid agonist (it acts like an opioid drug 
but less powerfully). This means it can be used in a controlled way to help prevent withdrawal 
symptoms and reduce the urge to misuse other opioids. 
What benefits of Buvidal have been shown in studies? 
A study involving 428 patients with opioid dependence showed that Buvidal was effective at reducing 
patients’ intake of opioid drugs. In this study, Buvidal was compared with sublingual tablets containing 
buprenorphine and another medicine, naloxone (which is used to prevent misuse). The main measure 
of effectiveness was based on the number of urine samples that tested negative for opioids. During the 
25 weeks of treatment, 35% of patients given Buvidal had a negative urine test, compared with 28% 
of patients taking the comparator tablets. 
What are the risks associated with Buvidal? 
The most common side effects with buprenorphine (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, nausea (feeling sick), hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), 
drug withdrawal syndrome and pain. 
Buvidal must not be used in patients with severe respiratory insufficiency (inability to breathe properly) 
and severe liver problems and in patients who are intoxicated with alcohol or are experiencing alcohol 
withdrawal symptoms. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Buvidal, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Buvidal authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Buvidal was at least as effective as buprenorphine 
tablets at treating opioid dependence. Weekly or monthly injections with Buvidal would offer an 
additional option for managing the condition. Although information on the long-term safety of the new 
formulation was lacking, the Agency’s view was that the benefit of Buvidal outweighs the identified risk 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Buvidal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Buvidal have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Buvidal are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Buvidal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Buvidal 
Buvidal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 November 2018. 
Buvidal (buprenorphine)  
EMA/660126/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Buvidal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Buvidal. Information on the reference medicine can also be 
found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2018. 
Buvidal (buprenorphine)  
EMA/660126/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
