25 March 2021 
EMA/289786/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): buprenorphine (all formulations except for implant) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000459/202007 
Period covered by the PSUR: 31/07/2017 to 30/07/2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for buprenorphine (other 
formulations except for implant), the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on central sleep apnoea (CSA) from spontaneous reports and relevant 
literature, the LMS considered that a causal relationship between medicinal products containing 
buprenorphine and the risk of central sleep apnoea is at least a reasonable possibility. Therefore, the 
LMS concluded the PI of products containing buprenorphine should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on skin reactions such as application site discolouration and dermatitis contact 
from spontaneous reports and relevant literature, the LMS considered that a causal relationship between 
these  reactions  and  the  use  of  medicinal  transdermal  products  containing  buprenorphine  is  at  least  a 
reasonable  possibility.  Therefore,  the  LMS  concluded  the  PI  of  transdermal  products  containing 
buprenorphine should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for buprenorphine (other formulations except for implant) the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing 
buprenorphine (other formulations except for implant) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/289786/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
