Summary of Risk Management Plan for 
BYANNLI (Paliperidone Palmitate 6-Monthly Injection) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for BYANNLI. The RMP details important 
risks of BYANNLI, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about BYANNLI’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
BYANNLI’s  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how BYANNLI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for BYANNLI should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of BYANNLI’s 
RMP. 
The Medicine and What It Is Used For
I. 
BYANNLI is authorized for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients who are 
clinically stable on 1 monthly or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable products. 
It  contains  paliperidone  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  administered  by  intramuscular  (IM) 
injection as a prolonged-release suspension in prefilled syringes containing 1,092 or 1,560 mg of 
BYANNLI, which is equivalent to 700 or 1,000 mg, respectively, of paliperidone. BYANNLI is 
administered by a health care professional.  
Further information about the evaluation of BYANNLI’s benefits can be found in BYANNLI’s 
EPAR,  including in its plain-language summary, available on  the  European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/paliperidone-janssen-cilag-
international#:~:text=Paliperidone%20Janssen%2DCilag%20International%20is,treatment%20w 
ith%20paliperidone%20or%20risperidone. 
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or
Further Characterize the Risks
Important risks of BYANNLI, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about BYANNLI’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or without 
prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of BYANNLI is not yet available, it is listed 
under "missing information" below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  BYANNLI  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of BYANNLI. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
Exposure during pregnancy  
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Missing Information: Exposure During Pregnancy 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPCs for INVEGA, XEPLION, TREVICTA, and BYANNLI: 
  Section 4.6, Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
  Section 5.3, Preclinical safety data 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
No studies are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation for BYANNLI. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
No studies are required for BYANNLI. 
