ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
BYANNLI 700 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
BYANNLI 1 000 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
700 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 1 092 mg paliperidone palmitate in 3.5 mL equivalent to 700 mg 
paliperidone
1 000 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 1 560 mg paliperidone palmitate in 5 mL equivalent to 1 000 mg 
paliperidone
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Prolonged-release suspension for injection (injection).
The suspension is white to off-white. The suspension is pH neutral (approximately 7.0).
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
BYANNLI, a 6-monthly injection, is indicated for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult 
patients who are clinically stable on 1-monthly or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable
products (see section 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Patients who are adequately treated with 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection at doses of 
100 mg or 150 mg (preferably for four months or more) or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection
at doses of 350 mg or 525 mg (for at least one injection cycle) and do not require dose adjustment may 
be transitioned to 6-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection.
BYANNLI for patients adequately treated with 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection
BYANNLI should be initiated in place of the next scheduled dose of 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injection (± 7 days). To establish a consistent maintenance dose, it is recommended that the last two 
doses of 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection be the same dose strength before starting 
BYANNLI. The BYANNLI dose should be based on the previous 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injectable dose shown in the following table:
Transitioning to BYANNLI for patients adequately treated with 1-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injection
If the last dose of 1-monthly paliperidone 
injection is
100 mg
150 mg 
Initiate BYANNLI at the following dose*
700 mg
1 000 mg
2
* There are no equivalent doses of BYANNLI for the 25 mg, 50 mg or 75 mg doses of 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injection, which were not studied.
BYANNLI for patients adequately treated with 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection
BYANNLI should be initiated in place of the next scheduled dose of 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injection (± 14 days). The BYANNLI dose should be based on the previous 3-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injectable dose shown in the following table:
Transitioning to BYANNLI for patients adequately treated with 3-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injection
If the last dose of 3-monthly paliperidone 
injection is
350 mg
525 mg
Initiate BYANNLI at the following dose*
700 mg
1 000 mg
* There are no equivalent doses of BYANNLI for the 175 mg or 263 mg doses of 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injection, which were not studied. 
Following the initial BYANNLI dose, BYANNLI should be administered once every 6 months. If 
necessary, patients may be given the injection up to 2 weeks before or up to 3 weeks after the 6-month
scheduled timepoint (see also Missed dose section).
If needed, dose adjustment of BYANNLI can be made every 6 months between the dose levels of
700 mg and 1 000 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy. Due to the long-acting 
nature of BYANNLI the patient’s response to an adjusted dose may not be apparent for several months 
(see section 5.2). If the patient remains symptomatic, they should be managed according to clinical 
practice.
Switching from other antipsychotic medicinal products
Patients should not be switched directly from other antipsychotics as BYANNLI should only be 
initiated after the patient is stabilised on 3-monthly or 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable 
products.
Switching from BYANNLI to other antipsychotic medicinal products
If BYANNLI is discontinued, its prolonged-release characteristics must be considered.
Transitioning from BYANNLI to 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection
When transitioning from BYANNLI to 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection, the 1-monthly 
injection should be administered at the time of the next scheduled BYANNLI dose as shown in the 
following table. The initiation dosing as described in the prescribing information for 1-monthly
paliperidone palmitate injection is not required. The 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection should 
then be dosed at monthly intervals as described within the prescribing information for that product.
Doses of 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable for patients transitioning from BYANNLI
If the last dose of BYANNLI is
700 mg
1 000 mg
Initiate 1-monthly paliperidone injection 
6 months later at the following dose
100 mg
150 mg
Transitioning from BYANNLI to 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable
When transitioning patients from BYANNLI to 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection, the 
3-monthly injection should be administered at the time of the next scheduled BYANNLI dose as 
shown in the following table. The initiation dosing regimen described in the prescribing information 
for 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection is not required. The 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injection should then be dosed at 3-monthly intervals as described within the prescribing information
for that product.
3
Doses of 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable for patients transitioning from 
BYANNLI
If the last dose of BYANNLI is
700 mg
1 000 mg
Initiate 3-monthly paliperidone injectable 
6 months later at the following dose
350 mg
525 mg
Transitioning from BYANNLI to oral daily paliperidone prolonged-release tablets
When transitioning patients from BYANNLI to paliperidone prolonged-release tablets, the daily 
dosing of paliperidone prolonged-release tablets should be started 6 months after the last BYANNLI
dose and treatment should be continued with paliperidone prolonged-release tablets as described in the 
table below. Patients previously stabilised on different doses of BYANNLI can attain similar 
paliperidone exposure with paliperidone prolonged-release tablets according to the following 
conversion regimens:
Doses of paliperidone prolonged-release tablets for patients transitioning from BYANNLI*
If the last dose of 
BYANNLI is
700 mg
1 000 mg
6 months to 9 months More than 9 months 
More than 12 months
Months after last BYANNLI dose
to 12 months
Daily dose of paliperidone prolonged-release tablets
6 mg
9 mg
9 mg
12 mg
3 mg
6 mg
* All doses of once daily paliperidone prolonged-release tablets should be individualised to the specific patient, 
taking into consideration variables such as reasons for transitioning, response to previous paliperidone treatment, 
severity of psychotic symptoms, and/or propensity for side effects.
Missed dose
Dosing window
BYANNLI should be injected once every 6 months. To avoid a missed dose of BYANNLI, patients 
may be given the injection up to 2 weeks before or up to 3 weeks after the scheduled 6-month time 
point.
If scheduled dose is missed and the time since 
last injection is
Action
Missed doses
up to 6 months and 3 weeks
> 6 months and 3 weeks up to < 8 months
≥ 8 months to ≤ 11 months
> 11 months
The injection of BYANNLI should be 
administered as soon as possible and then 
resume the 6-monthly injection schedule.
The injection of BYANNLI should not be 
administered. Use the recommended re-initiation 
regimen with 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injectable as shown in the table below.
The injection of BYANNLI should not be 
administered. Use the recommended re-initiation
regimen with 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
injectable as shown in the table below.
The injection of BYANNLI should not be 
administered. Re-initiate treatment with 
1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable as 
described in the prescribing information for that 
product. BYANNLI can then be resumed after 
the patient has been adequately treated with 
1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable,
preferably for four months or more.
4
If the last dose of BYANNLI 
was
Recommended re-initiation regimen after missing > 6 months and 3 weeks up to < 8 months of 
BYANNLI
Administer 1-monthly 
paliperidone palmitate 
injectable (into deltoida
muscle)
Day 1
100 mg
150 mg
1 month after Day 1
700 mg
1 000 mg
Then administer BYANNLI 
(into gluteal muscle)
700 mg
1 000 mg
Recommended re-initiation regimen after missing ≥ 8 months to ≤ 11 months of BYANNLI
Then administer 
Administer 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate 
If the last dose of 
injectable (into deltoida muscle)
BYANNLI (into 
BYANNLI was
gluteal muscle)
1 month after Day 8
700 mg
1 000 mg
Day 1
100 mg
100 mg
Day 8
100 mg
100 mg
700 mg
1 000 mg
a
See Information intended for healthcare professionals for the 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable product for 
deltoid injection needle selection based on body weight.
Special populations
Elderly
Efficacy and safety in elderly > 65 years have not been established.
In general, recommended dosing of BYANNLI for elderly patients with normal renal function is the 
same as for younger adult patients with normal renal function. As elderly patients may have reduced 
renal function, see Renal impairment below for dosing recommendations in patients with renal 
impairment.
Renal impairment
While BYANNLI has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment, the plasma 
concentrations of orally administered paliperidone are increased in these patients (see sections 4.4
and 5.2). 
Patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 50 to ≤ 80 mL/min) who are stabilised on 
either 100 mg 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable or 350 mg 3-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injectable can be transitioned to BYANNLI at the 700 mg dose only. The 1 000 mg dose of 
BYANNLI is not recommended for patients with mild renal impairment.
BYANNLI is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 50 mL/min).
Hepatic impairment
BYANNLI has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Based on experience with oral 
paliperidone, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. As 
paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment, caution is recommended 
in such patients (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of BYANNLI in children and adolescents < 18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available.
5
Method of administration
BYANNLI is for gluteal intramuscular use only. It must not be administered by any other route. Each 
injection must be administered only by a healthcare professional giving the full dose in a single 
injection. It should be injected slowly, deep into the upper-outer quadrant of the gluteal muscle. A 
switch between the two gluteal muscles should be considered for future injections in the event of 
injection site discomfort (see section 4.8).
The needle for administration of BYANNLI is a thin wall 1½ inch, 20 gauge (0.9 mm × 38 mm)
needle, regardless of body weight. BYANNLI must be administered using only the thin wall needle 
that is provided in the BYANNLI pack. Needles from the 3-monthly or 1-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injectable pack or other commercially available needles must not be used when 
administering BYANNLI (see Information intended for healthcare professionals).
The contents of the pre-filled syringe should be inspected visually for foreign matter and
discolouration prior to administration. This highly concentrated product requires specific steps to 
ensure complete resuspension.
It is important to shake the syringe with the syringe tip cap pointing up using a very fast up and 
down motion with a loose wrist for at least 15 seconds. Rest briefly, then shake again in the same 
way, using a very fast up and down motion with a loose wrist for a further 15 seconds to resuspend 
the medicinal product. Proceed immediately to inject BYANNLI. If more than five minutes passes
before the injection is administered, shake the syringe again, as above to resuspend the medicinal 
product (see Information intended for healthcare professionals).
Incomplete administration
BYANNLI is a highly concentrated product that requires specific steps to ensure complete 
resuspension and prevent clogging of the needle during injection. Proper shaking can reduce the 
likelihood of an incomplete injection. Shipping and storing the carton in a horizontal orientation 
improves the ability to resuspend this highly concentrated product. Follow the details in the 
Information intended for healthcare professionals to avoid an incomplete injection.
However, in the event of an incompletely injected dose, the dose remaining in the syringe should not 
be re-injected and another dose should not be given since it is difficult to estimate the proportion of the 
dose actually administered. The patient should be closely monitored and managed as clinically 
appropriate until the next scheduled 6-monthly injection of BYANNLI.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to risperidone or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Use in patients who are in an acutely agitated or severely psychotic state
BYANNLI should not be used to manage acutely agitated or severely psychotic states when 
immediate symptom control is warranted.
QT interval
Caution should be exercised when paliperidone is prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease or family history of QT prolongation, and in concomitant use with other medicinal products 
thought to prolong the QT interval.
6
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS)
NMS, characterised by hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic instability, altered consciousness, 
and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels has been reported to occur with paliperidone. 
Additional clinical signs may include myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and acute renal failure. If a 
patient develops signs or symptoms indicative of NMS, paliperidone should be discontinued. 
Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of BYANNLI.
Tardive dyskinesia/extrapyramidal symptoms
Medicinal products with dopamine receptor antagonistic properties have been associated with the 
induction of tardive dyskinesia characterised by rhythmical, involuntary movements, predominantly of 
the tongue and/or face. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear, the discontinuation of all 
antipsychotics, including paliperidone, should be considered. Consideration should be given to the 
long-acting nature of BYANNLI.
Caution is warranted in patients receiving both, psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) and 
paliperidone concomitantly, as extrapyramidal symptoms could emerge when adjusting one or both 
medicinal products. Gradual withdrawal of stimulant treatment is recommended (see section 4.5).
Leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis
Events of leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported with paliperidone. Patients 
with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell (WBC) count or a drug-induced 
leucopenia/neutropenia should be monitored during the first few months of therapy and 
discontinuation of BYANNLI should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline 
in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia 
should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if 
such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count 
< 1 × 109/L) should discontinue BYANNLI and have their WBC followed until recovery. 
Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of BYANNLI.
Hypersensitivity reactions
Hypersensitivity reactions can occur even in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or 
oral paliperidone (see section 4.8).
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus
Hyperglycaemia, diabetes mellitus, and exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes, including diabetic coma 
and ketoacidosis, have been reported with paliperidone. Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in
accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines. Patients treated with BYANNLI should be 
monitored for symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness) 
and patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control.
Body weight change
Significant weight change has been reported with BYANNLI use. Weight should be monitored 
regularly (see section 4.8).
Use in patients with prolactin-dependent tumours
Tissue culture studies suggest that cell growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by 
prolactin. Although no clear association with the administration of antipsychotics has so far been 
demonstrated in clinical and epidemiological studies, caution is recommended in patients with relevant 
medical history. Paliperidone should be used with caution in patients with a pre-existing tumour that 
may be prolactin-dependent.
7
Orthostatic hypotension
Paliperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension in some patients based on its alpha-adrenergic 
blocking activity. BYANNLI should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease (e.g., heart failure, myocardial infarction or ischaemia, conduction abnormalities), 
cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration and 
hypovolaemia).
Seizures
BYANNLI should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that 
potentially lower the seizure threshold.
Renal impairment
The plasma concentrations of paliperidone are increased in patients with renal impairment. Patients 
with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 50 mL/min to ≤ 80 mL/min) who are stabilised on 
either 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable may 
be transitioned to BYANNLI (see section 4.2). The 1 000 mg dose of BYANNLI is not recommended 
for patients with mild renal impairment. BYANNLI is not recommended in patients with moderate or 
severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min) (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Caution is 
recommended if paliperidone is used in such patients.
Elderly patients with dementia
BYANNLI has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. BYANNLI is not recommended to 
treat elderly patients with dementia due to increased risk of overall mortality and cerebrovascular 
adverse reactions.
The experience from risperidone cited below is considered valid also for paliperidone.
Overall mortality
In a meta-analysis of 17 controlled clinical trials, elderly patients with dementia treated with other 
atypical antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, olanzapine, and quetiapine had an 
increased risk of mortality compared to placebo. Among those treated with risperidone, the mortality 
was 4% compared with 3.1% for placebo.
Cerebrovascular adverse reactions
An approximately 3-fold increased risk of cerebrovascular adverse reactions has been seen in 
randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials in the dementia population with some atypical 
antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine. The mechanism for this increased 
risk is not known.
Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB)
Physicians should weigh the risks versus the benefits when prescribing BYANNLI to patients with 
Parkinson’s disease or DLB since both groups may be at increased risk of NMS as well as having an 
increased sensitivity to antipsychotics. Manifestation of this increased sensitivity can include 
confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, in addition to extrapyramidal 
symptoms.
8
Priapism
Antipsychotic medicinal products (including paliperidone) with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects 
have been reported to induce priapism. Patients should be informed to seek urgent medical care in case 
that priapism has not been resolved within 4 hours.
Body temperature regulation
Disruption of the body’s ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic 
medicinal products. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing BYANNLI to patients who will be 
experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., 
exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medicinal products with 
anticholinergic activity or being subject to dehydration.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE)
Cases of VTE have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products. Since patients treated with 
antipsychotics often present with acquired risk factors for VTE, all possible risk factors for VTE 
should be identified before and during treatment with BYANNLI and preventative measures 
undertaken.
Antiemetic effect
An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in 
humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdose with certain medicinal products or of 
conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye’s syndrome and brain tumour.
Administration
Care must be taken to avoid inadvertent injection of BYANNLI into a blood vessel.
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS)
IFIS has been observed during cataract surgery in patients treated with medicinal products with 
alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect, such as BYANNLI (see section 4.8).
IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. Current or past use of 
medicinal products with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect should be made known to the 
ophthalmic surgeon in advance of surgery. The potential benefit of stopping alpha 1 blocking therapy 
prior to cataract surgery has not been established and must be weighed against the risk of stopping the 
antipsychotic therapy.
Excipients
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e., essentially 
sodium-free.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Caution is advised when prescribing BYANNLI with medicinal products known to prolong the QT 
interval, e.g., class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics
(e.g., amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some antibiotics (e.g., fluoroquinolones), some other 
antipsychotics and some antimalarials (e.g., mefloquine). This list is indicative and not exhaustive.
9
Potential for BYANNLI to affect other medicines
Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicinal 
products that are metabolised by cytochrome P450 isozymes.
Given the primary central nervous system (CNS) effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), BYANNLI 
should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products, e.g., 
anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, etc. or alcohol.
Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination 
is deemed necessary, particularly in end-stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest effective dose of each 
treatment should be prescribed.
Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may 
be observed when BYANNLI is administered with other medicinal products that have this potential, 
e.g., other antipsychotics, tricyclics.
Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicinal products known to lower the 
seizure threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, mefloquine, 
etc.).
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged-release tablets at steady-state (12 mg once daily) 
with divalproex sodium prolonged-release tablets (500 mg to 2 000 mg once daily) did not affect the 
steady-state pharmacokinetics of valproate.
No interaction study between BYANNLI and lithium has been performed, however, a 
pharmacokinetic interaction is not likely to occur.
Potential for other medicines to affect BYANNLI
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone 
metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role 
in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of oral paliperidone with paroxetine, a 
potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
paliperidone.
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged-release once daily with carbamazepine 200 mg twice 
daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. 
This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone 
likely as a result of induction of renal P-gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of 
active substance excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP 
metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. Larger 
decreases in plasma concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. 
On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of BYANNLI should be re-evaluated and increased if 
necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of BYANNLI should be 
re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of 
BYANNLI.
Co-administration of a single dose of an oral paliperidone prolonged-release tablet 12 mg with 
divalproex sodium prolonged-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of 
approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone, likely as a result of increased oral 
absorption. Since no effect on the systemic clearance was observed, a clinically significant interaction 
would not be expected between divalproex sodium prolonged-release tablets and BYANNLI gluteal 
intramuscular injection. This interaction has not been studied with BYANNLI.
10
Concomitant use of BYANNLI with risperidone or oral paliperidone
Since paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone, caution should be exercised when 
BYANNLI is co-administered with risperidone or with oral paliperidone for extended periods of time. 
Safety data involving concomitant use of BYANNLI with other antipsychotics is limited.
Concomitant use of BYANNLI with psychostimulants
The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g. methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to 
extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential
Plasma exposure to paliperidone after a single dose of BYANNLI is expected to remain for up to 
4 years (see section 5.2). This should be taken into account when initiating treatment in women of 
childbearing potential, considering a possible future pregnancy or breast-feeding. BYANNLI should 
only be used in women planning to become pregnant if clearly necessary.
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of paliperidone during pregnancy. Intramuscularly injected 
paliperidone palmitate and orally administered paliperidone were not teratogenic in animal studies, but 
other types of reproductive toxicity were seen (see section 5.3). Neonates exposed to paliperidone 
during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or 
withdrawal symptoms that may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been 
reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding 
disorder. Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. 
Paliperidone has been detected in plasma up to 18 months after a single dose of the 3-monthly 
paliperidone palmitate injectable. Plasma exposure to paliperidone after a single dose of BYANNLI is 
expected to remain for up to 4 years (see section 5.2). Maternal exposure to BYANNLI before and 
during pregnancy may lead to adverse reactions in the newborn child. BYANNLI should not be used 
during pregnancy unless clearly necessary.
Breast-feeding
Paliperidone is excreted in the breast milk to such an extent that effects on the breast-fed infant are 
likely if therapeutic doses are administered to breast-feeding women. Since a single dose of 
BYANNLI is expected to remain for up to 4 years in plasma (see section 5.2), breast-fed infants may 
be at risk even from BYANNLI administration long before breast-feeding. Patients currently under 
treatment or who have been treated in the past 4 years with BYANNLI should not breast feed.
Fertility
There were no relevant effects observed in the non-clinical studies.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Paliperidone has minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines due to potential 
nervous system and visual effects, such as sedation, somnolence, syncope, vision blurred (see 
section 4.8). Therefore, patients should be advised not to drive or operate machines until their 
individual susceptibility to BYANNLI is known.
11
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequently observed adverse reactions reported in ≥ 5% of patients in the randomised 
double-blind active controlled clinical trial of BYANNLI were upper respiratory tract infection, 
injection site reaction, weight increased, headache and Parkinsonism.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following are all adverse reactions that were reported with paliperidone by frequency category 
estimated from paliperidone palmitate clinical trials. The following terms and frequencies are applied: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness.
System Organ 
Class
Infections and 
infestations
Very 
common
Common
upper respiratory tract 
infection, urinary tract 
infection, influenza
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Endocrine 
disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
hyperprolactinaemiab
hyperglycaemia, weight 
increased, weight 
decreased, decreased 
appetite
Psychiatric 
disorders
insomniae
agitation, depression, 
anxiety
Adverse reactions
Frequency
Uncommon
Rare
Not knowna
pneumonia, 
bronchitis, 
respiratory tract 
infection, sinusitis, 
cystitis, ear 
infection, 
tonsillitis, 
onychomycosis, 
cellulitis,
subcutaneous 
abscess
white blood cell 
count decreased, 
anaemia
hypersensitivity
diabetes mellitusd, 
hyperinsulinaemia, 
increased appetite, 
anorexia, blood 
triglycerides 
increased, blood 
cholesterol 
increased
sleep disorder, 
mania, libido 
decreased, 
nervousness, 
nightmare
eye infection, 
acarodermatitis 
agranulocytosis
anaphylactic 
reaction
water intoxication
neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia,
eosinophil count 
increased
inappropriate 
antidiuretic 
hormone secretion, 
glucose urine 
present
diabetic 
ketoacidosis, 
hypoglycaemia, 
polydipsia
sleep-related 
eating disorder
catatonia, 
confusional state, 
somnambulism, 
blunted affect, 
anorgasmia
12
Nervous system 
disorders
parkinsonismc, 
akathisiac, sedation/ 
somnolence, dystoniac, 
dizziness, dyskinesiac, 
tremor, headache
Eye disorders
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
tachycardia
Vascular disorders
hypertension
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
cough, nasal congestion
abdominal pain, 
vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, diarrhoea, 
dyspepsia, toothache
transaminases increased
musculoskeletal pain, 
back pain, arthralgia
13
diabetic coma 
floppy iris 
syndrome
(intraoperative)
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome, cerebral 
ischaemia,
unresponsive to 
stimuli, loss of 
consciousness, 
depressed level of 
consciousness, 
convulsione, 
balance disorder,
coordination 
abnormal, head 
titubation
glaucoma, eye 
movement disorder, 
eye rolling, 
photophobia, 
lacrimation 
increased, ocular 
hyperaemia
atrial fibrillation, 
sinus arrhythmia
pulmonary 
embolism, venous 
thrombosis, 
flushing
sleep apnoea 
syndrome, 
pulmonary 
congestion,
respiratory tract 
congestion, rales,
wheezing
pancreatitis, 
intestinal 
obstruction,
swollen tongue, 
faecal incontinence, 
faecaloma, cheilitis
ischaemia
hyperventilation, 
pneumonia 
aspiration, 
dysphonia
ileus
jaundice
drug eruption, 
hyperkeratosis, 
seborrhoeic 
dermatitis, dandruff
rhabdomyolysis, 
joint swelling
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis, 
angioedema, skin 
discolouration
posture abnormal
tardive dyskinesia, 
syncope, 
psychomotor 
hyperactivity, 
dizziness postural, 
disturbance in 
attention, 
dysarthria, 
dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia
vision blurred,
conjunctivitis, dry 
eye
vertigo, tinnitus, 
ear pain
atrioventricular 
block, conduction 
disorder, 
electrocardiogram 
QT prolonged, 
postural orthostatic 
tachycardia 
syndrome, 
bradycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
abnormal, 
palpitations
hypotension, 
orthostatic 
hypotension
dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngeal 
pain, epistaxis
abdominal 
discomfort, 
gastroenteritis, 
dysphagia, dry 
mouth, flatulence
gamma-
glutamyltransferas
e increased, 
hepatic enzyme 
increased
urticaria, pruritus, 
rash, alopecia, 
eczema, dry skin, 
erythema, acne
blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased, muscle 
spasms, joint 
stiffness, muscular 
weakness
Renal and urinary 
disorders
Pregnancy, 
puerperium and 
perinatal 
conditions
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders
amenorrhoea 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions
pyrexia, asthenia, 
fatigue, injection site 
reaction
urinary 
incontinence, 
pollakiuria, dysuria
urinary retention
drug withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal (see 
section 4.6)
priapism,breast 
discomfort, breast 
engorgement, 
breast enlargement, 
vaginal discharge
body temperature 
decreased, 
injection site 
necrosis, injection 
site ulcer
hypothermia, chills, 
thirst, drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome, injection 
site abscess, 
injection site 
cellulitis, injection 
site cyst, injection 
site haematoma
erectile 
dysfunction, 
ejaculation 
disorder, menstrual
disordere, 
gynaecomastia, 
galactorrhoea,
sexual dysfunction, 
breast pain
face oedema, 
oedemae, body 
temperature 
increased, gait 
abnormal, chest 
pain, chest 
discomfort, 
malaise, induration
fall
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
a
The frequency of adverse reactions is qualified as “not known” because they were not observed in paliperidone palmitate 
clinical trials. They were either derived from spontaneous post-marketing reports and frequency cannot be determined, or 
they were derived from risperidone (any formulation) or oral paliperidone clinical trials data and/or post-marketing 
reports.
b Refer to ‘Hyperprolactinaemia’ below.
c Refer to ‘Extrapyramidal symptoms’ below.
d
In placebo-controlled trials, diabetes mellitus was reported in 0.32% in subjects treated with 1-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injectable compared to a rate of 0.39% in placebo group. Overall incidence from all clinical trials was 0.65% in 
all subjects treated 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable.
Insomnia includes: initial insomnia, middle insomnia; Convulsion includes: grand mal convulsion; Oedema includes:
generalised oedema, oedema peripheral, pitting oedema; Menstrual disorder includes: menstruation delayed, 
menstruation irregular, oligomenorrhoea.
e
Undesirable effects noted with risperidone formulations
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone, therefore, the adverse reaction profiles of these 
compounds (including both the oral and injectable formulations) are relevant to one another.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Anaphylactic reaction
Rarely, cases of anaphylactic reaction after injection with 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable 
have been reported during post-marketing experience in patients who have previously tolerated oral 
risperidone or oral paliperidone (see section 4.4).
Injection site reactions
In the clinical trial of BYANNLI, 10.7% of subjects reported injection site related adverse reaction
(4.5% in subjects treated with the comparator 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable). None of 
these events were serious or led to discontinuation. Based on the investigators’ clinical ratings, 
induration, redness, and swelling were absent or mild in ≥ 95% of the assessments. Subject-rated 
injection site pain based on a visual analogue scale was low and decreased in intensity over time.
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)
In the clinical trial of BYANNLI, akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonia, parkinsonism, and tremor were 
reported in 3.6%, 1.5%, 0.6%, 5.0%, and 0.2% of subjects, respectively.
14
EPS included a pooled analysis of the following terms: parkinsonism (includes extrapyramidal 
disorder, extrapyramidal symptoms, on and off phenomenon, Parkinson’s disease, parkinsonian crisis, 
salivary hypersecretion, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, drooling, cogwheel rigidity, 
bradykinesia, hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle tightness, akinesia, nuchal rigidity, muscle rigidity, 
parkinsonian gait, glabellar reflex abnormal, and parkinsonian rest tremor), akathisia (includes 
akathisia, restlessness, hyperkinesia, and restless leg syndrome), dyskinesia (includes dyskinesia, 
chorea, movement disorder, muscle twitching, choreoathetosis, athetosis, and myoclonus), dystonia 
(includes dystonia, cervical spasm, emprosthotonus, oculogyric crisis, oromandibular dystonia, risus 
sardonicus, tetany, hypertonia, torticollis, muscle contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, 
blepharospasm, oculogyration, tongue paralysis, facial spasm, laryngospasm, myotonia, opisthotonus, 
oropharyngeal spasm, pleurothotonus, tongue spasm, and trismus), and tremor (includes tremor, action 
tremor).
Changes in body weight 
In the 12-month clinical trial of BYANNLI, the number of subjects with abnormal weight percent 
change from double-blind baseline to double-blind end point is presented in the table below. The 
overall mean weight change from double-blind baseline to double-blind end point was +0.10 kg for the 
BYANNLI group and +0.96 kg for the 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate group. In subjects 
18-25 years of age, mean (SD) weight change of -0.65 (4.955) kg was observed for the BYANNLI 
group and +4.33 (7.112) kg in the 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate group. For overweight subjects 
(BMI 25 to < 30), mean weight change of -0.53 kg in the BYANNLI group and +1.15 kg in the 
3-monthly paliperidone palmitate group was observed.
Number of patients with abnormal weight percent change from (double-blind) baseline to end point
Weight percent change
Decrease ≥ 7%
Increase ≥ 7%
1
PP3M – 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable
PP3M1
(N=219) 
15 (6.8%)
29 (13.2%)
BYANNLI
(N=473) 
43 (9.1%)
50 (10.6%)
Hyperprolactinaemia
In the 12-month clinical trial of BYANNLI, the mean (SD) change from double-blind baseline in 
prolactin levels was -2.19 (13.61) µg/L for males and -4.83 (34.39) µg/L for females in the 6-monthly 
paliperidone palmitate group and in the 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate group it was 
1.56 (19.08)◦µg/L for males and 9.03 (40.94) µg/L for females. During the double-blind phase,
3 females (4.3%) in the 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate group and 5 females (3.3%) in the 
6-monthly paliperidone palmitate group experienced amenorrhoea.
Class effects
QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), sudden 
unexplained death, cardiac arrest, and Torsade de pointes may occur with antipsychotics.
Cases of VTE, including cases of pulmonary embolism and cases of deep vein thrombosis, have been 
reported with antipsychotic medicinal products (frequency unknown).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medical product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.
15
4.9 Overdose
Symptoms
In general, expected signs and symptoms are those resulting from an exaggeration of paliperidone’s 
known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness and sedation, tachycardia and hypotension, QT 
prolongation, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been 
reported in a patient in the setting of overdose with oral paliperidone. In the case of acute overdose, 
the possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered.
Management
Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of the medicinal product and the long 
elimination half-life of paliperidone when assessing treatment needs and recovery. There is no specific 
antidote to paliperidone. General supportive measures should be employed. Establish and maintain a 
clear airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation.
Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous 
electrocardiographic monitoring for possible arrhythmias. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should 
be treated with appropriate measures such as intravenous fluid and/or sympathomimetic agents. In 
case of severe extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic agents should be administered. Close 
supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Psycholeptics, other antipsychotics. ATC code: N05AX13
BYANNLI contains a racemic mixture of (+)- and (-)-paliperidone.
Mechanism of action
Paliperidone is a selective blocking agent of monoamine effects, whose pharmacological properties 
are different from that of traditional neuroleptics. Paliperidone binds strongly to serotonergic 5-HT2-
and dopaminergic D2-receptors. Paliperidone also blocks alpha 1-adrenergic receptors and slightly 
less, H1-histaminergic and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The pharmacological activity of the (+)- and 
(-)-paliperidone enantiomers are qualitatively and quantitatively similar.
Paliperidone is not bound to cholinergic receptors. Even though paliperidone is a strong 
D2-antagonist, which is believed to relieve the symptoms of schizophrenia, it causes less catalepsy and 
decreases motor functions less than traditional neuroleptics. Dominating central serotonin antagonism 
may reduce the tendency of paliperidone to cause extrapyramidal side effects.
Clinical efficacy
The efficacy of BYANNLI for the treatment of schizophrenia in patients who had previously been 
adequately treated with either 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection for at least 4 months or 
3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable for at least one 3-month injection cycle was evaluated in a 
Phase 3, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, interventional, parallel-group, multicentre, 
non-inferiority study in adult patients. The primary outcome was time to relapse. 
The study consisted of an open-label phase which included screening, transition and maintenance 
phases, followed by a 12-month double-blind phase in which patients were randomised to receive 
either BYANNLI or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable. 702 adequately treated patients were 
randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive BYANNLI (478 patients) or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate
16
injectable (224 patients). Patients received either 2 injection cycles of BYANNLI (4 injections in total; 
BYANNLI with alternating placebo) or 4 injections of 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection
every 3 months with regular scheduled visits between injections over the 12-month study duration. 
Dose adjustment was not permitted during the double-blind phase. Patients remained in this phase 
until they experienced a relapse event, met discontinuation/withdrawal criteria, or study conclusion.
7.5% of patients in the BYANNLI treatment group and 4.9% of patients in the 3-monthly paliperidone 
palmitate injectable treatment group experienced a relapse event in the 12-month double-blind Phase
with the Kaplan-Meier estimated difference (BYANNLI – 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection)
of 2.9% (95% CI: -1.1% to 6.8%). The Kaplan-Meier plot (with 95% pointwise confidence bands) of 
time from randomisation to impending relapse during the 12-month double-blind, active-controlled 
Phase for BYANNLI 700 and 1 000 mg and 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable 350 mg and 
525 mg is shown in Figure 1.
e
s
p
a
l
e
R
t
u
o
h
t
i
W
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
S
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
BYANNLI (N=478)
3-month paliperidone palmitate injectable product (N=224)
0
28
56
84
112
140
168
196
224
252
280
308
336
364
Time (days) Since Randomization
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Plot (with 95% pointwise confidence bands) of percentage of subjects without 
relapse
The efficacy results were consistent across population subgroups (gender, age, and race) in both 
treatment arms.
It was determined that the efficacy of BYANNLI was noninferior to the efficacy of 3-monthly 
paliperidone palmitate injection in adults with a DSM-5 diagnosis of schizophrenia. The upper bound 
of the 95% CI (6.8%) was less than 10%, the prespecified non-inferiority margin. 
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
BYANNLI in all subsets of the paediatric population in schizophrenia (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics for BYANNLI are presented after gluteal administration only.
Absorption and distribution
Due to its extremely low water solubility, the 6-monthly formulation of paliperidone palmitate 
dissolves slowly after intramuscular injection before being hydrolysed to paliperidone and absorbed 
17
 
 
 
 
 
into the systemic circulation. The release of the active substance after a single dose of 3-monthly 
paliperidone palmitate injectable starts as early as day 1 and lasts for as long as 18 months. The release 
of BYANNLI is expected to last longer. Paliperidone plasma concentrations have only been studied up 
to 6 months after administration of BYANNLI. Based on population pharmacokinetic simulations 
paliperidone concentrations are expected to remain in plasma for up to approximately 4 years
following a single 1 000 mg dose of BYANNLI. The concentration of paliperidone remaining in the 
circulation approximately 4 years after a single dose of 1 000 mg BYANNLI is expected to be 
low (< 1% of the average steady state levels).
The data presented in this paragraph are based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis. Following a 
single gluteal intramuscular injection of BYANNLI at doses of 700 and 1 000 mg, the plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone gradually rise to reach maximum plasma concentrations predicted on
days 33 and 35, respectively. The release profile and dosing regimen of BYANNLI results in sustained 
therapeutic concentrations over 6 months. Cmax and AUC6month of BYANNLI were approximately
dose-proportional in the range of 700-1 000 mg. The median steady-state peak:trough ratio is 
approximately 3.0. 
The plasma protein binding of racemic paliperidone is 74%.
Biotransformation and elimination
In a study with oral immediate release 14C-paliperidone, one week following administration of a single 
oral dose of 1 mg immediate release 14C-paliperidone, 59% of the dose was excreted unchanged into 
urine, indicating that paliperidone is not extensively metabolised in the liver. Approximately 80% of 
the administered radioactivity was recovered in urine and 11% in the faeces. Four metabolic pathways 
have been identified in vivo, none of which accounted for more than 10% of the dose: dealkylation, 
hydroxylation, dehydrogenation, and benzisoxazole scission. Although in vitro studies suggested a 
role for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of paliperidone, there is no evidence in vivo that 
these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism of paliperidone. Population pharmacokinetics 
analyses indicated no discernible difference on the apparent clearance of paliperidone after 
administration of oral paliperidone between extensive metabolisers and poor metabolisers of CYP2D6 
substrates. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially 
inhibit the metabolism of medicines metabolised by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, 
CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5.
In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate and a weak inhibitor of P-gp at high 
concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown.
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, the median apparent half-life of paliperidone following 
BYANNLI gluteal administration at doses of 700 and 1 000 mg is estimated to be 148 and 159 days,
respectively.
Long-acting 6-monthly paliperidone palmitate injection versus other paliperidone formulations
BYANNLI is designed to deliver paliperidone over a 6-month period, compared to the 1-monthly or 
3-monthly products which are administered every month or every three months, respectively. 
BYANNLI doses of 700 mg and 1 000 mg results in a range of paliperidone exposures similar to those 
obtained with corresponding doses of 1-monthly or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injections or 
corresponding once daily doses of paliperidone prolonged-release tablets (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment
Paliperidone is not extensively metabolised in the liver. Although BYANNLI was not studied in 
patients with hepatic impairment, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate 
hepatic impairment. In a study with oral paliperidone in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh class B), the plasma concentrations of free paliperidone were similar to those of healthy 
subjects. Paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
18
Renal impairment
BYANNLI has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment. The disposition of a 
single oral dose of a paliperidone 3 mg prolonged-release tablet was studied in subjects with varying 
degrees of renal function. Elimination of paliperidone decreased with decreasing estimated creatinine 
clearance. Total clearance of paliperidone was reduced in subjects with impaired renal function by 
32% on average in mild (CrCl = 50 to ≤ 80 mL/min), 64% in moderate (CrCl = 30 to ≤ 50 mL/min), 
and 71% in severe (CrCl = 10 to < 30 mL/min) renal impairment, corresponding to an average 
increase in exposure (AUCinf) of 1.5, 2.6, and 4.8-fold, respectively, compared to healthy subjects.
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetics analysis showed no evidence of age related pharmacokinetics 
differences.
Body mass index (BMI)/body weight
Lower Cmax was observed in overweight and obese subjects. At apparent steady-state with BYANNLI, 
the trough concentrations were similar among normal, overweight, and obese subjects.
Race
Pharmacokinetic analysis showed no evidence of clinically relevant difference in pharmacokinetics 
between races.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetics analysis showed no evidence of gender related pharmacokinetics 
differences.
Smoking status
Based on in vitro studies utilising human liver enzymes, paliperidone is not a substrate for CYP1A2; 
smoking should, therefore, not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. Effect of 
smoking on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone was not studied with BYANNLI. A population 
pharmacokinetic analysis based on data with oral paliperidone prolonged-release tablets showed a 
slightly lower exposure to paliperidone in smokers compared with non-smokers. The difference is not 
likely to be of clinical relevance.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity studies of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate (the 1-monthly 
formulation) and orally administered paliperidone in rat and dog showed mainly pharmacological 
effects, such as sedation and prolactin-mediated effects on mammary glands and genitals. In animals 
treated with paliperidone palmitate an inflammatory reaction was seen at the intramuscular injection 
site. Occasionally abscess formation occurred.
In rat reproduction studies with oral risperidone, which is extensively converted to paliperidone in rats 
and humans, adverse effects were seen on the birth weight and survival of the offspring. No 
embryotoxicity or malformations were observed following intramuscular administration of 
paliperidone palmitate to pregnant rats up to the highest dose (160 mg/kg/day) corresponding to 
1.6 times the exposure level in humans at the maximum recommended dose of 1 000 mg. Other 
dopamine antagonists, when administered to pregnant animals, have caused negative effects on 
learning and motor development in the offspring.
19
Paliperidone palmitate and paliperidone were not genotoxic. In oral carcinogenicity studies of 
risperidone in rats and mice, increases in pituitary gland adenomas (mouse), endocrine pancreas 
adenomas (rat), and mammary gland adenomas (both species) were seen. The carcinogenic potential 
of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate was assessed in rats. There was a statistically 
significant increase in mammary gland adenocarcinomas in female rats at 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg/month. 
Male rats showed a statistically significant increase in mammary gland adenomas and carcinomas at 
30 and 60 mg/kg/month which is 0.3 and 0.6 times the exposure level at the maximum recommended 
human 1 000 mg dose. These tumours can be related to prolonged dopamine D2-antagonism and 
hyperprolactinaemia. The relevance of these tumour findings in rodents in terms of human risk is 
unknown.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Polysorbate 20
Polyethylene glycol 4 000
Citric acid monohydrate
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Ship and store in a horizontal position. See arrows on product carton for proper orientation.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
700 mg
3.5 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, plunger 
rod, backstop, and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a thin wall 20G 1½ inch (0.9 mm × 38 mm) safety 
needle.
1 000 mg
5 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, plunger rod, 
backstop, and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a thin wall 20G 1½ inch (0.9 mm × 38 mm) safety 
needle.
Pack sizes:
Pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and 1 needle
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Ship and store this product in a horizontal orientation to improve the ability to resuspend this highly 
concentrated product and prevent clogging of the needle.
Shake the syringe very fast for at least 15 seconds, rest briefly, then shake again for 15 seconds. The 
suspension should be visually inspected before injection. When mixed well the product is uniform, 
20
thick and milky white. Full instructions for use and handling of BYANNLI are provided in the 
package leaflet (See Information intended for healthcare professionals).
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1453/007 
EU/1/20/1453/008 
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 18 June 2020
Date of latest renewal:
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
21
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
22
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
23
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
A. LABELLING
25
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
BYANNLI 700 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains 700 mg paliperidone (as paliperidone palmitate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: polysorbate 20, polyethylene glycol 4 000, citric acid monohydrate, sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate monohydrate, sodium hydroxide, and water for injections
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged-release suspension for injection
1 pre-filled syringe of 3.5 mL
1 needle
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Gluteal intramuscular use
Administer every 6 months
Shake syringe VERY FAST in an up and down motion for 15 seconds, then 
repeat
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
26
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Administer only using the needle provided in the pack.
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Ship and store with THIS SIDE UP
LAY FLAT 
UP 
Inset upward pointing arrows
DOWN
Ship and store with THIS SIDE DOWN
LAY FLAT
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1453/007
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
BYANNLI 700 mg
27
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
28
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER TRAY LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
BYANNLI 700 mg injection
paliperidone
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
4.
BATCH NUMBER
5.
OTHER
Requires specific shaking to prevent clogging.
Read Information intended for healthcare professionals.
29
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
BYANNLI 700 mg injection
paliperidone
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
Gluteal i.m 
Shake fast
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
700 mg
6.
OTHER
30
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
BYANNLI 1 000 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains 1 000 mg paliperidone (as paliperidone palmitate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: polysorbate 20, polyethylene glycol 4 000, citric acid monohydrate, sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate monohydrate, sodium hydroxide, and water for injections
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged-release suspension for injection
1 pre-filled syringe of 5 mL
1 needle
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Gluteal intramuscular use
Administer every 6 months
Shake syringe VERY FAST in an up and down motion for 15 seconds, then 
repeat
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
31
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Administer only using the needle provided in the pack.
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Ship and store with THIS SIDE UP 
LAY FLAT 
UP 
Inset upward pointing arrows
DOWN
Ship and store with THIS SIDE DOWN
LAY FLAT
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/20/1453/008
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
BYANNLI 1 000 mg
32
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
33
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS
BLISTER TRAY LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
BYANNLI 1 000 mg injection
paliperidone
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
4.
BATCH NUMBER
5.
OTHER
Requires specific shaking to prevent clogging.
Read Information intended for healthcare professionals.
6.
OTHER
34
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
BYANNLI 1 000 mg injection
paliperidone
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
Gluteal i.m
Shake fast
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
1 000 mg
6.
OTHER
35
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
36
Package leaflet: Information for the user
BYANNLI 700 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
BYANNLI 1 000 mg prolonged-release suspension for injection in pre-filled syringe
paliperidone
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1. What BYANNLI is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you use BYANNLI
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to use BYANNLI
Possible side effects
How to store BYANNLI
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What BYANNLI is and what it is used for
BYANNLI contains the active substance paliperidone which belongs to the class of antipsychotic 
medicines.
BYANNLI is used as a maintenance treatment for the symptoms of schizophrenia in adult patients.
If you have responded well to treatment with paliperidone palmitate injection given once a month or 
once every three months, your doctor may start treatment with BYANNLI.
Schizophrenia is a disease with “positive” and “negative” symptoms. Positive means an excess of 
symptoms that are not normally present. For example, a person with schizophrenia may hear voices or 
see things that are not there (called hallucinations), believe things that are not true (called delusions), 
or feel unusually suspicious of others. Negative means a lack of behaviours or feelings that are 
normally present. For example, a person with schizophrenia may appear withdrawn and may not 
respond at all emotionally or may have trouble speaking in a clear and logical way. People with this 
disease may also feel depressed, anxious, guilty, or tense.
BYANNLI can help alleviate the symptoms of your disease and reduce the risk of your symptoms 
coming back.
2. What you need to know before you use BYANNLI
Do not use BYANNLI
-
if you are allergic to paliperidone or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are allergic to risperidone.
-
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using BYANNLI.
This medicine has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. However, elderly patients with 
dementia, who are treated with other similar types of medicine, may have an increased risk of stroke 
or death (see section 4).
37
All medicines have side effects and some of the side effects of this medicine can worsen the symptoms 
of other medical conditions. For that reason, it is important to discuss with your doctor any of the 
following conditions which can potentially worsen during treatment with this medicine:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
if you have Parkinson’s disease
if you have a type of dementia called “Lewy body dementia”
if you have ever been diagnosed with a condition whose symptoms include high temperature 
and muscle stiffness (also known as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome)
if you have ever experienced twitching or jerking movements that you cannot control in your 
face, tongue, or other parts of your body (Tardive Dyskinesia)
if you know that you have had low levels of white blood cells in the past (which may or may not 
have been caused by other medicines)
if you are diabetic or prone to diabetes
if you have had breast cancer or a tumour in the pituitary gland in your brain
if you have a heart disease or heart disease treatment that makes you prone to low blood 
pressure
if you have low blood pressure when you stand up or sit up suddenly
if you have a history of seizures
if you have kidney problems
if you have liver problems
if you have prolonged and/or painful erection
if you have problems with controlling body temperature or overheating
if you have an abnormally high level of the hormone prolactin in your blood or if you have a 
possible prolactin-dependent tumour
if you or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as antipsychotics have been 
associated with formation of blood clots.
If you have any of these conditions, please talk to your doctor as he/she may want to adjust your dose 
or monitor you for a while.
As dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood has been seen very rarely with patients taking this medicine, your doctor may check your white 
blood cell counts.
Even if you have previously tolerated oral paliperidone or risperidone, rarely allergic reactions occur 
after receiving injections of BYANNLI. Seek medical attention right away if you experience a rash, 
swelling of your throat, itching, or problems breathing as these may be signs of a serious allergic 
reaction.
This medicine may cause you to gain or loose weight. Significant changes in weight may be bad for 
your health. Your doctor should regularly measure your body weight.
As diabetes mellitus or worsening of pre-existing diabetes mellitus have been seen with patients taking 
this medicine, your doctor should check for signs of high blood sugar. In patients with pre-existing 
diabetes mellitus blood glucose should be monitored regularly.
Since this medicine may reduce your urge to vomit, there is a chance that it may mask the body’s 
normal response to ingestion of toxic substances or other medical conditions.
Cataract operations
If you are planning to have an operation on your eye, make sure you tell your eye doctor that you are 
taking this medicine. This is because during a cataract operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens:
the pupil (the black circle in the middle of your eye) may not increase in size as needed

the iris (the coloured part of the eye) may become floppy during surgery and that may lead to 

eye damage. 
38
Children and adolescents
Do not use this medicine in children and adolescents under 18 years of age. It is not known if it is safe 
and effective in these patients.
Other medicines and BYANNLI
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Taking this medicine with carbamazepine (an anti-epileptic and mood stabiliser) may require a change 
to your dose of this medicine.
Since this medicine works primarily in the brain, using other medicines that work in the brain can 
cause an exaggeration of side effects such as sleepiness or other effects on the brain such as other 
psychiatric medicines, opioids, antihistamines and sleep medicines.
Tell your doctor if you take this medicine while you are also taking oral risperidone or paliperidone 
for extended periods of time. You may require a change to your dose of BYANNLI.
Since this medicine can lower blood pressure, care should be taken when this medicine is used with 
other medicines that lower blood pressure.
This medicine can reduce the effect of medicines against Parkinson’s disease and restless legs 
syndrome (e.g., levodopa).
This medicine may cause an electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality demonstrating a long time for an 
electrical impulse to travel through a certain part of the heart (known as “QT prolongation”). Other 
medicines that have this effect include some medicines used to treat the rhythm of the heart or to treat 
infection, and other antipsychotics.
If you have a history of seizures, this medicine may increase your risk of experiencing them. Other 
medicines that have this effect include some medicines used to treat depression or to treat infection, 
and other antipsychotics.
BYANNLI should be used with caution with medicines that increase the activity of the central nervous 
system (psychostimulants such as methylphenidate).
BYANNLI with alcohol
Alcohol should be avoided.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Women of childbearing potential
A single dose of this medicine is expected to remain within the body for up to 4 years, which may be a 
risk for the baby. BYANNLI should, therefore, only be used in women planning to have a baby if 
clearly necessary.
Pregnancy
You should not use this medicine during pregnancy unless this has been discussed with your doctor. 
The following symptoms may occur in newborn babies of mothers that have used paliperidone in the 
last trimester (last three months of their pregnancy): shaking, muscle stiffness and/or weakness, 
sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, and difficulty in feeding. Newborns should be monitored 
carefully and if your baby develops any of these symptoms seek medical attention for your baby.
39
Breast-feeding
This medicine can pass from mother to baby through breast milk. It may harm the baby, even a long 
time after the latest dose. Therefore, you should not breast-feed if you are using, or have used, this 
medicine in the past 4 years.
Driving and using machines
Dizziness, extreme tiredness and vision problems may occur during treatment with this medicine (see 
section 4). This should be considered in cases where full alertness is required, e.g., when driving a car 
or handling machines.
BYANNLI contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”.
3.
How to use BYANNLI
This medicine is administered by your doctor or other healthcare professional. Your doctor will tell 
you when you need your next injection. It is important not to miss your scheduled dose. If you cannot 
keep your appointment, make sure you call right away so another appointment can be made as soon as 
possible.
You will receive an injection of BYANNLI in the buttocks once every 6 months.
Depending on your symptoms, your doctor may increase or decrease the amount of medicine you 
receive at the time of your next scheduled injection.
Patients with kidney problems
If you have mild kidney problems your doctor will determine if BYANNLI is appropriate based on the 
dose of 1-monthly or 3-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable that you have been receiving. The 
1 000 mg dose of BYANNLI is not recommended.
If you have moderate or severe kidney problems this medicine should not be used.
Elderly
Your doctor may adjust your dose of this medicine if your kidney function is reduced.
If you are given more BYANNLI than needed
This medicine will be given to you under medical supervision; it is, therefore, unlikely that you will be 
given too much.
Patients who have been given too much paliperidone may experience the following symptoms:
drowsiness or sedation, fast heart rate, low blood pressure, an abnormal electrocardiogram (electrical 
tracing of the heart), or slow or abnormal movements of the face, body, arms or legs.
If you stop using BYANNLI
If you stop receiving your injections, your symptoms of schizophrenia may get worse. You should not 
stop using this medicine unless told to do so by your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
40
Serious side effects
If you get any of the following serious side effects, you may need immediate medical treatment. Tell 
your doctor or go to the nearest hospital straight away:

Blood clots in the veins, especially in the legs. This is rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people). 
Symptoms include: 
o swelling, pain, and redness in the leg – “deep vein thrombosis”
o chest pain and difficulty breathing caused by blood clots that travelled through blood 
vessels to the lungs – “pulmonary embolism”. 





Signs of a stroke, the frequency is not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Symptoms include:
o sudden change in your mental state 
o sudden weakness or numbness of your face, arms or legs, especially on one side, or 
slurred speech, even for a short period of time. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome. This is rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people). Symptoms 
include:
o Fever, muscle stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness.
Prolonged erection, which may be painful (priapism). This is rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 
people).
Twitching or jerking rhythmic movements that you cannot control in your tongue, mouth and 
face or other parts of your body (Tardive Dyskinesia). This is uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 
100 people). 
Severe allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction), the frequency is not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). Symptoms include:
o fever, 
o swollen mouth, face, lip or tongue, 
o shortness of breath, 
o itching, skin rash and sometimes drop in blood pressure. 
Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral paliperidone, rarely allergic reactions 
occur after receiving injections of paliperidone.

Floppy iris syndrome, when the iris (the coloured part of the eye) become floppy during eye 
cataract surgery. This may lead to eye damage (see also ‘Cataract operations’ in section 2). The 
frequency is not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).
Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis. Severe or life-threatening rash with 
blisters and peeling skin that may start in and around the mouth, nose, eyes and genitals and 
spread to other areas of the body. The frequencies are not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).

Tell your doctor straight away or go to the nearest hospital immediately if you notice any of the 
serious side effects above.

Agranulocytosis, dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight 
infection in your blood. The frequency of this is not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).
Other side effects
Very common side effects: may affect more than 1 in 10 people

difficulty falling or staying asleep.
Common side effects: may affect up to 1 in 10 people


common cold symptoms, urinary tract infection, feeling like you have the flu.
BYANNLI can raise your levels of a hormone called “prolactin” found on a blood test (which 
may or may not cause symptoms). When symptoms of high prolactin occur, they may include: 
(in men) breast swelling, difficulty in getting or maintaining erections, or other sexual 
dysfunction; (in women) breast discomfort, missed menstrual periods, or other problems with 
your cycle.
41


















high blood sugar, weight gain, weight loss, decreased appetite.
irritability, depression, anxiety.
parkinsonism: This condition may include slow or impaired movement, sensation of stiffness or 
tightness of the muscles (making your movements jerky), and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement “freezing up” and then restarting. Other signs of parkinsonism include a slow 
shuffling walk, a tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face.
feeling restless, sleepy, or less alert.
dystonia: This is a condition involving slow or sustained involuntary contraction of muscles. 
While it can involve any part of the body (and may result in abnormal posture), dystonia often 
involves muscles of the face, including abnormal movements of the eyes, mouth, tongue or jaw.
dizziness.
dyskinesia: This is a condition involving involuntary muscle movements, and can include 
repetitive, spastic or writhing movements, or twitching.
tremor (shaking).
headache.
rapid heart rate.
high blood pressure.
cough, stuffy nose.
abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, constipation, diarrhoea, indigestion, toothache.
increased liver transaminases in your blood.
bone or muscle ache, back pain, joint pain.
loss of menstrual periods.
fever, weakness, fatigue (tiredness).
a reaction at the injection site, including itching, pain or swelling.
Uncommon side effects: may affect up to 1 in 100 people

pneumonia, infection of the chest (bronchitis), infection of the breathing passages, sinus 
infection, bladder infection, ear infection, tonsillitis, fungal infection of the nails, infection of 
the skin.
white blood cell count decreased.
anaemia.
allergic reaction.
diabetes or worsening of diabetes, increased insulin (a hormone that controls blood sugar levels) 
in your blood.
increased appetite.
loss of appetite resulting in malnutrition and low body weight.
high blood triglycerides (a fat), increased cholesterol in your blood.
sleep disorder, elated mood (mania), decreased sexual drive, nervousness, nightmares.
fainting, a restless urge to move parts of your body, dizziness upon standing, disturbance in 
attention, problems with speech, loss or abnormal sense of taste, reduced sensation of skin to 
pain and touch, a sensation of tingling, pricking, or numbness of skin.
blurry vision, eye infection or “pink eye”, dry eye.
sensation of spinning (vertigo), ringing in the ears, ear pain.
an interruption in conduction between the upper and lower parts of the heart, abnormal electrical 
conduction of the heart, prolongation of the QT interval from your heart, rapid heartbeat upon 
standing, slow heart rate, abnormal electrical tracing of the heart (electrocardiogram or ECG), a 
fluttering or pounding feeling in your chest (palpitations).
low blood pressure, low blood pressure upon standing (consequently, some people taking this 
medicine may feel faint, dizzy, or may pass out when they stand up or sit up suddenly).
shortness of breath, sore throat, nosebleeds.
abdominal discomfort, stomach or intestinal infection, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth, 
excessive passing of gas or wind.
increased GGT (a liver enzyme called gamma-glutamyltransferase) in your blood, increased 
liver enzymes in your blood.
















42











hives (or “nettle rash”), itching, rash, hair loss, eczema, dry skin, skin redness, acne, abscess 
under the skin, flaky, itchy scalp or skin.
an increase of CPK (creatine phosphokinase), an enzyme in your blood.
muscle spasms, joint stiffness, muscle weakness.
incontinence (lack of control) of urine, frequent passing of urine, pain when passing urine.
erectile dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, missed menstrual periods or other problems with your 
cycle (females), development of breasts in men, sexual dysfunction, breast pain, leakage of milk 
from the breasts.
swelling of the face, mouth, eyes, or lips, swelling of the body, arms, or legs.
an increase in body temperature.
a change in the way you walk.
chest pain, chest discomfort, feeling unwell.
hardening of the skin.
fall.
Rare side effects: may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people















eye infection.
skin inflammation caused by mites.
increase in eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) in your blood.
decrease in platelets (blood cells that help you stop bleeding).
inappropriate secretion of a hormone that controls urine volume.
sugar in the urine.
life-threatening complications of uncontrolled diabetes.
low blood sugar.
excessive drinking of water.
confusion.
not moving or responding while awake (catatonia).
sleep walking.
lack of emotion.
inability to reach orgasm.
unresponsive to stimuli, loss of consciousness, low level of consciousness, convulsion (fits), 
balance disorder.
abnormal coordination.
glaucoma (increased pressure within the eyeball).
problems with movement of your eyes, eye rolling, oversensitivity of the eyes to light, increased 
tears, redness of the eyes.
head shaking that you cannot control.
atrial fibrillation (an abnormal heart rhythm), irregular heartbeat.
flushing.
trouble breathing during sleep (sleep apnoea).
lung congestion, congestion of breathing passages.
crackly lung sounds.
wheezing.
inflammation of the pancreas,
swollen tongue, 
stool incontinence, very hard stool, a blockage in the bowels.
chapped lips.
rash on skin related to drug, thickening of skin, dandruff.
joint swelling.
breakdown of muscle tissue (“rhabdomyolysis”).
inability to pass urine.
breast discomfort, enlargement of the glands in your breasts, breast enlargement.
vaginal discharge.
very low body temperature, chills, feeling thirsty.





















43


symptoms of drug withdrawal.
accumulation of pus caused by infection at injection site, deep skin infection, a cyst at the 
injection site, bruising at injection site.
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data










dangerously excessive intake of water.
sleep-related eating disorder.
coma due to uncontrolled diabetes.
fast, shallow breathing, pneumonia caused by inhaling food, voice disorder.
decreased oxygen in parts of your body (because of decreased blood flow).
lack of bowel movement that causes blockage.
yellowing of the skin and the eyes (jaundice).
skin discolouration.
abnormal posture.
newborn babies born to mothers who have taken BYANNLI during pregnancy may experience 
side effects of the medicine and/or withdrawal symptoms, such as irritability, slow, or sustained 
muscle contractions, shaking, sleepiness, breathing, or feeding problems.
a decrease in body temperature.
dead skin cells at injection site, an ulcer at injection site.


Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store BYANNLI
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month.
Ship and store in a horizontal position. See arrows on product carton for proper orientation.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What BYANNLI contains
The active substance is paliperidone.
Each BYANNLI 700 mg pre-filled syringe contains 1 092 mg paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 
700 mg paliperidone in 3.5 mL.
Each BYANNLI 1 000 mg pre-filled syringe contains 1 560 mg paliperidone palmitate equivalent to
1 000 mg paliperidone in 5 mL.
The other ingredients are:
Polysorbate 20
Polyethylene glycol 4 000
Citric acid monohydrate
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
Water for injections
44
What BYANNLI looks like and contents of the pack
BYANNLI is a white to off-white prolonged-release suspension for injection in a pre-filled syringe.
pH is approximately 7.0. The doctor or nurse will shake the syringe very fast to resuspend the 
suspension before it is given as an injection.
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and 1 needle.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
Lietuva
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON”
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
България
”Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.:+359 2 489 94 00
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel:+420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.:+36 1 884 2858
Malta
AM MANGION LTD.
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
Eesti
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” Eesti filiaal
Tel.: +372 617 7410
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
45
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tél: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
c/o Vistor hf
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Tηλ: +357 22 207 700
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
Latvija
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
This leaflet was last revised in
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
46
Information intended for healthcare professionals
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only and should be read by the 
healthcare professional in conjunction with the full prescribing information (Summary of Product 
Characteristics).
Important safety summary
Shake syringe with the syringe tip cap 
pointing up VERY FAST for at least 
15 seconds, rest briefly, then shake again for 
15 seconds.
Shipping and storing the carton in a 
horizontal orientation improves the 
resuspendability of this highly concentrated 
product.
BYANNLI (6-month paliperidone palmitate 
extended-release injectable suspension) 
requires longer and faster shaking than 
1 month paliperidone palmitate extended-
release injectable suspension.
BYANNLI should be administered by a 
healthcare professional as a single injection. 
- Do not divide dose into multiple injections. 
BYANNLI is intended for gluteal 
intramuscular use only. 
- Inject slowly, deep into the muscle taking 
care to avoid injection into a blood vessel.
Administer BYANNLI once every 6 months.
It is important to only use the thin wall safety 
needle (1½ inch, 20 gauge 0.9 mm × 38 mm)
provided in the kit. It is designed to be used
only with BYANNLI. 
Shipping and storing
Preparation
Dosing
Thin wall safety needle
47
Dose pack contents
Prefilled Syringe
Syringe Tip Cap
Luer Connection
Finger Flange
Plunger
Thin Wall Safety Needle
48
1. Prepare for the injection.
This highly concentrated product requires specific steps to resuspend.
Always hold the syringe with the tip cap 
pointing up.
To ensure complete resuspension shake 
syringe with:


Short VERY FAST up and down 
motion
Loose wrist
Shake syringe VERY FAST for at least 
15 seconds, rest briefly, then shake again for 
15 seconds.
If more than 5 minutes pass
before injection, shake the 
syringe VERY FAST with the tip 
cap pointing up again for at 
least 30 seconds to resuspend 
the medication.
Check suspension for 
solid product
Mixed well
Not mixed well
• Uniform, thick  and  milky 
white
•
It  is  normal  to  see  air 
bubbles
•
STOP
Solid  product  on  the  sides 
and top of syringe
• Uneven mix
• Thin liquid
The product may clog. If this happens, shake the syringe with the syringe tip cap pointing up VERY 
FAST for at least 15 seconds, rest, then shake again for 15 seconds.
49
Open needle pouch
Peel off the pouch cover.
Place pouch with the needle inside on a clean surface.
Remove syringe tip cap and attach needle
1. Hold the syringe with the tip cap pointing up. 
2. Twist and pull the cap off.
3. Attach the safety needle to the syringe using a gentle  
twisting motion to avoid needle hub cracks or damage.
Always check for signs of damage or leakage prior to 
administration.
Only use the needle included in this kit.
1. Pull back plunger
2. Hold the syringe upright.
3. Gently pull back the plunger to clear the syringe tip of 
any solid product. This will make pressing the plunger 
easier during the injection.
Remove air bubbles
Press the plunger carefully until a drop of liquid comes out of 
the needle tip.
50
2. Slowly inject entire content and confirm
Select and clean an upper-outer quadrant gluteal injection site
Do not administer by any other route.
Wipe the injection site with an alcohol swab and allow it to dry.
Do not touch, fan or blow the injection site after you have 
cleaned it.
Remove needle sheath
Pull the needle sheath away from the needle in a straight 
motion.
Do not twist the sheath, as this may loosen the needle from the 
syringe.
Slowly inject and confirm
Use slow, firm consistent pressure to press the plunger 
completely. This should take approximately 30-60 seconds.
Continue to press the plunger if you feel resistance. This is 
normal.
While the needle is in the 
muscle, confirm that the entire 
content of the syringe has been 
injected.
Remove needle from the muscle.
51
3. After the injection
Secure needle
After the injection is compete, use your thumb or a flat surface 
to secure the needle in the safety device.
The needle is secure when you hear a “click” sound.
Dispose of properly and check injection site
Dispose of the syringe in an approved sharps container.
There may be a small amount of blood or liquid at the injection 
site. Hold pressure over the skin with a cotton ball or gauze pad 
until any bleeding stops.
Do not rub the injection site.
If needed, cover injection site with a bandage.
52
