EMA/259283/2022  
EMEA/H/C/002020 
Bydureon (exenatide) 
An overview of Bydureon and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Bydureon and what is it used for? 
Bydureon is a diabetes medicine used together with  other diabetes medicines including long-acting 
insulin to  treat adults and children aged 10 years and above with  type 2 diabetes whose blood glucose 
(sugar) levels are not adequately controlled with  the other medicines. 
Bydureon contains the active substance exenatide. 
How is Bydureon used? 
Bydureon is given by injection under the skin once a week on the same day each week in  the abdomen 
(belly), thigh  or back of the upper arm. Patients  inject themselves once they have been trained.  
When adding Bydureon to a sulphonylurea (another type of diabetes medicine), the doctor may need 
to reduce the  dose of the sulphonylurea because there is a r isk of hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose 
levels). When adding Bydureon to insulin,  the dose of insulin  may also need to be adjuste d.  
Patients using both  Bydureon and insulin  should inject the medicines separately.  
The medicine can only be obtained with  a prescription. For more information about  using Bydureon, 
see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Bydureon work? 
In type 2 diabetes, the pancreas does not make enough insulin to  control the  level of glucose in the 
blood or the  body is unable to use insulin  effectively. This leads to excess glucose in the  blood. 
The active substance in Bydureon, exenatide, is an ‘incretin mimetic’. This means that it  acts in the 
same way as incretins (hormones produced in the gut)  by increasing the amount of insulin released by 
the pancreas in response to food. This helps to control blood glucose levels. 
What benefits of Bydureon have been shown in studies? 
Bydureon was effective at controlling blood glucose in six main studies involving nearly 2,700  adult 
patients with  type 2 diabetes. In all of the studies, the  main measure of effectiveness was the 
reduction in the amount of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglo bin (HbA1c),  which 
gives an indication of how well the  blood glucose is controlled.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The first two studies (in  a total  of 555  patients) compared Bydureon with  another medicine also 
containing exenatide but  given twice daily, both  given as add-on treatment to oral diabetes medicines 
(medicines taken by mouth) or diet and exercise alone. At the start of the studies, the patients’  HbA1c 
levels were around 8.4%.  In the  first study, Bydureon reduced HbA1c levels by an average of 1.9 
percentage points after 30 weeks of treatment, compared with  an average reduction of 1.5 points  with 
exenatide given twice daily. In the  second study, the average reduction was 1.6  points after 24 weeks 
of treatment with  Bydureon, compared with an average reduction of 0.9  points with  exenatide given 
twice daily.  
The third study (in 514  patients) compared Bydureon with  the oral diabetes medicines sitagliptin  or 
pioglitazone as add-on treatment to  metformin (another diabetes medicine). At  the start of the study, 
the patients’  HbA1c levels were around 8.5%. Bydureon reduced HbA1c levels by an average of 1.4 
points after 26 weeks of treatment, compared with  an average reduction of 0.8 and 1.1 points  with 
sitagliptin  and pioglitazone respectively. 
The fourth study (in 456  patients) compared Bydureon with  insulin glargine (a long-acting  insulin) as 
add-on treatment to metformin with  or without  a sulphonylurea. At the start of the study, the patients’ 
HbA1c levels were around 8.3%.  The average reduction with Bydureon was 1.5 points  after 26  weeks, 
compared with  an average reduction of 1.3  points with  insulin glargine. 
In the fifth  study (in 695 patients),  Bydureon given with  dapagliflozin (an oral diabetes medicine) was 
compared with  Bydureon alone and dapagliflozin alone . All patients were also taking metformin. At the 
start of the study, the  patients’ HbA1c levels were around 9.3%.  The average reduction with Bydureon 
plus dapagliflozin was 2.0  points after 28 weeks, compared with  an average reduction of 1.6 points 
with  Bydureon alone and 1.4 points  with dapagliflozin alone . 
In the sixth study (in 464  patients), Bydureon given together with  insulin glargine with or without 
metformin was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) also given with  insulin  glargine with  or 
without  metformin. At the start  of the  study, the patients’ HbA1c levels were around 8.5%.  The 
average reduction with  Bydureon was 1.0 point  after 28 weeks, compared with an average reduction of 
0.2 points  with placebo. 
In addition, a study in 83 children with  type 2 diabetes aged between 10 and 18 years compared 
Bydureon with  placebo, both given either alone or added to an oral diabetes medicine with or without 
insulin.  At the start of the study, the patients’  HbA1c levels were around 8%. The average reduction 
with  Bydureon was 0.4  points after 24 weeks, compared with  an average increase of 0.5 points with 
placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Bydureon? 
The most common side effects with  Bydureon in adults are nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea. Nausea 
occurs mainly at the start of treatment  and decrease s over time. In addition, reactions at the  site of 
injection (itching  and redness), low blood glucose levels (when used with  a sulphonylurea) and 
headache occur. Most  side effects are mild to  moderate in intensity. The safety profile in children is 
similar to that in  adults. For the full list  of side effects and restrictions with  Bydureon, see the  package 
leaflet. 
Why is Bydureon authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that  the benefits of Bydureon, such as its effect on reducing the 
levels of HbA1c, compare well with  those of comparator medicines and that  its  side effects are 
manageable. The Agency therefore decided that  Bydureon’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the  EU. 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Bydureon? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Bydureon have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Bydureon are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with  Bydureon are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients.  
Other information about Bydureon 
Bydureon received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  for Bydureon on 17 June 2011.   
Further information on Bydureon can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bydureon 
This overview was last updated in  05-2022.   
 
 
