16 February 2012 
EMA/363251/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
BYETTA 
exenatide   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000698/II/0029 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested  variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 7 June 2011 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
BYETTA 
exenatide 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4., 4.6, 4.7, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC in order to 
extend  the  indication  for  the  use  of  Byetta  in  combination  with  a  basal  insulin  with  or  without 
metformin and/or a thiazolidinedione. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
In addition, the MAH proposed minor changes for the Product Information. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  
Kristina Dunder 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Pieter de Graeff 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteurs’ joint assessment report circulated 
on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteurs’ preliminary joint assessment report 
on the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
7 June 2011  
26 June 2011 
22 August 2011 
22 September 2011 
30 September 2011 
24 November 2011 
Rapporteurs’ final  joint assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
7 December 2011 
2nd Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
15 December 2011 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
12 January 2012 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 2/36
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Rapporteurs’ joint assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
26 January 2012 
CHMP opinion: 
16 February 2012 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
(P/21/2011) on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At  the  time  of  submission  of  the  application,  the  PIP  (P/21/2011)  was  not  yet  completed  as  some 
measures were deferred. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 3/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations  
BID 
BMI 
 twice daily 
 body mass index 
CHMP 
 Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use 
DPP-4 
 dipeptidyl peptidase 4 
EU 
FDA  
FPG  
FSG 
GCP  
 European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
fasting plasma glucose 
 fasting serum glucose 
good clinical practice 
GLP-1  
glucagon-like peptide 1 
HbA1c  
haemoglobin A1c 
ILPS  
insulin lispro protamine suspension 
ITT  
LS 
LOCF 
MAA  
OAD  
intent to treat 
 least squares 
 last observation carried forward (also referred to as “mean change analysis”) 
marketing authorization application 
oral antidiabetes drug 
PSUR 
 periodic safety update report 
RMP 
SC  
 risk management plan 
subcutaneously 
SMBG  
self-monitored blood glucose 
SmPC  
summary of product characteristics 
SU  
TZD  
sulphonylurea 
thiazolidinedione 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 4/36
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Exenatide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist.  Endogenous incretins, like GLP-1, 
enhance insulin secretion following their release from the gut into the circulation in response to food 
intake.   
BYETTA (exenatide) injection is currently approved in the Union as a treatment for type 2 diabetes in 
combination with the following agents in patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control 
on maximally tolerated doses of these oral therapies: 
- metformin 
- sulphonylureas 
- thiazolidinediones 
- metformin and a sulphonylurea 
- metformin and a thiazolidinedione. 
The current application aimed to extend the indication of exenatide to include combination with basal 
insulin to support the following proposed additional indication: 
BYETTA is indicated to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in 
combination with a basal insulin with or without metformin and/or a thiazolidinedione. 
The data submitted in support of this extension of indication application are discussed within the 
hereafter assessment report. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The MAH considered exenatide, as a moderately sized peptide, to be exempt from the Environmental 
Risk Assessment requirement, and this was agreed by CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Support for the additional indication requested is based on 2 studies:  H8O US GWCO (GWCO) and 
F3Z-US-IOPB (IOPB):   
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 5/36
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary of Studies Supporting Use of Exenatide in Combination with Basal Insulin 
GCP 
The confirmatory clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
A Randomized Trial Comparing Exenatide with Placebo in Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes on 
Insulin Glargine with or without Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications (Study GWCO) 
Study design 
Study GWCO was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, two-arm, parallel, placebo-controlled study 
in 259 subjects with suboptimal glycaemic control.  
Study population 
Key inclusion criteria for participation in the study included: stable body weight with a body mass index 
≤45 kg/m2, suboptimal glucose control evidenced by HbA1c ≥7.1% and ≤10.5%, and if taking OADs, 
treatment with stable doses of metformin or pioglitazone, or a combination of metformin and 
pioglitazone. Key exclusion criteria included: treatment with specifically excluded glucose-lowering 
medication or insulin other than glargine within 3 months of participation in the study, and more than 
1 major hypoglycaemia episode within 6 months.  
Subjects were randomly assigned to add exenatide BID or placebo BID before morning and evening 
meals to their current therapy regimens (insulin glargine, with or without metformin, pioglitazone, or 
both). Stratification was performed by investigative site and baseline HbA1c ≤8.0%, ≥8.1%). According 
to their treatment assignment, subjects received exenatide 5 mcg BID for 4 weeks followed by 
exenatide 10 mcg BID for the remaining 26 weeks or placebo (equivalent volume) for 30 weeks. 
During the initial 4 weeks of treatment (exenatide or placebo), subjects with an HbA1c ≤8.0% 
decreased their prestudy dose of insulin glargine by 20% and subjects with an HbA1c ≥8.1% 
maintained their prestudy insulin dose. Beginning at Week 5, insulin doses for the exenatide and 
placebo treatment groups were actively titrated with guidance from the investigator toward predefined 
fasting plasma glucose (FPG) targets. 
Endpoints 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 6/36
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective of the study was to test the hypothesis that exenatide plus titrated insulin 
glargine was superior to placebo plus titrated insulin glargine on glycaemic control as measured by 
change in HbA1c from baseline to Week 30, with or without OADs. 
 Secondary efficacy measures included the proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c target values 
(7.0%, and 6.5%) at Week 30; preprandial and postprandial glucose derived from 7-point SMBG 
profiles (glucose measurements before and 2 hours after the start of the morning, midday, and 
evening meals, and at the 0300 hour), change from baseline in FSG, body weight, blood pressure, 
serum lipids and insulin dose. Additional efficacy analyses included assessment of the proportion of 
subjects achieving HbA1c <7% and postprandial blood glucose excursions (from 7-point SMBG 
profiles).  
Figure 1. Illustration of design for Study GWCO. 
The design of study GWCO was considered as adequate for the objective to assess whether the 
addition of exenatide to ongoing insulin treatment can provide additional effect in comparison to 
placebo for patients treated with metformin or pioglitazone, or a combination of metformin and 
pioglitazone. In subjects with an HbA1c ≤8.0%, the insulin dose was reduced by 20%, the impications 
of which is discussed further below. 
A Randomized Trial Comparing Insulin Lispro Protamine Suspension with Insulin Glargine in 
Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes on Oral Antihyperglycemic Medications and Exenatide (Study 
IOPB) 
Study design 
Study IOPB was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, two-arm, 24-week clinical trial which examined 
337 subjects with type 2 diabetes with suboptimal glycaemic control.  
Study population 
Key inclusion criteria for participation in the study included: body mass index ≤45 kg/m2 and 
suboptimal glucose control evidenced by HbA1c ≥7.0% and ≤10.0%. Patients should have been taking 
exenatide therapy at a dose of 10 μg twice daily (BID) for at least 3 months prior to Visit 1 as well as 
receiving metformin or a combination of metformin and a sulfonylurea or a combination of metformin 
and pioglitazone 3 months prior to Visit 1 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 7/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key exclusion criteria included treatment with a maximum dose of OADs that were not allowed with 
concurrent use of insulin according to the label, insulin treatment within 2 years prior to study entry, 
treatment with excluded glucose-lowering medication within 3 months of participation in the study, and 
more than 1 severe hypoglycaemia episode within 6 months. 
Subjects were randomly assigned with stratification (based on use of an SU and baseline HbA1c strata 
[≤8.5%, 8.5%]) to add a single evening dose of insulin glargine or ILPS to their current treatment 
regimen: exenatide (BID, before morning and evening meals) alone or exenatide in combination with 
metformin, metformin and an SU, or metformin and pioglitazone. The insulin dose was titrated to 
reach FPG targets over 8 weeks (titration period) and continued treatment for a 16-week maintenance 
period. The insulin titration regimen for insulin glargine was the same as that used in GWCO (Riddle et 
al. 2003) and a slightly modified insulin titration regimen was used for ILPS. 
Endpoints 
The primary objective of the study was to test the noninferiority margin (0.4%) of bedtime dosing with 
ILPS versus bedtime dosing with insulin glargine on glycaemic control, as measured by change in 
HbA1c from baseline to endpoint (last observation carried forward [LOCF]) when added to OADs plus 
exenatide in subjects whose type 2 diabetes was suboptimally controlled (HbA1c ≥7.0% and ≤10.0%). 
Secondary efficacy measures included actual HbA1c value at endpoint (LOCF) and actual and change 
from baseline HbA1c value at Week 24; percentage of patients with target HbA1c at Weeks 12, 18, and 
24, and at endpoint (LOCF); 7-point SMBG profiles; mean blood glucose (BG) measurement based on 
7-point SMBG, and glycaemic variability (measured as SD of a subject’s intraday mean BG levels) from 
these profiles at endpoint (LOCF). In addition, insulin dose at endpoint (LOCF) was examined. 
Figure 2. Illustration of design for Study IOPB. 
The design of study IOPB does not provide any data on the efficacy of exenatide in combination with 
insulin, but will contribute safety data for the combination +/- different OADs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 8/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Results 
Disposition of subjects 
Table 3. Summary of Reasons for Discontinuation by Treatment (Studies GWCO [N = 261] 
and IOPB [N = 339]) - All Randomized Subjects 
Demographics and baseline characteristics 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 9/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Subject Demographics at Baseline (Studies GWCO [N = 259] and IOPB [N = 337]) – 
Intent-to-Treat Population 
Patients had a rather long duration of disease. The proportion of males/females differed between the 
placebo and exenatide groups in study GWCO.  
In study GWCO patients had to be included at screening with a body mass index of ≤45 kg/m2. 
However there were patients included at baseline(time of randomization) with a BMI of 54.4 kg/m2. In 
study GWCO, inclusion criteria had to be suboptimal glucose control evidenced by HbA1c ≥7.1% (and ≤
10.5%). However at baseline, minimum in the exenatide group was 6.9%, in the placebo group 6.7%. 
This 2 points have been addressed by the applicant during the procedure and are discussed below in 
the section Discussion. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 10/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 11/36
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Baseline Diabetes Management Method (Study GWCO [N=259]) –ITT Population 
Table 6 Summary of Concomitant OAD in Study IOPB – All Randomized Subjects (N=339) 
In the 2 studies, exenatide and insulin has mainly been given together with metformin, 
metformin+pioglitazone and SU+metformin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 12/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary and secondary efficacy endpoints 
Table 7. Summary of Efficacy Results for Study GWCO (Intent-to-Treat Population) 
Variable 
Haemoglobin A1c (%) 
Baseline 
Week 30 
Change 
Proportion reaching glycaemic target 
Haemoglobin A1c <7.0% 
Haemoglobin A1c ≤6.5% 
Body weight (kg) 
Baseline 
Week 30 
Change 
Change in insulin dose at Week 30 
U/day 
U/kg 
Fasting serum glucose(mmol/L) 
Baseline 
Week 30 
Least-Squares Mean or  
Percentage of Subjects 
Exenatide 
(N=137) 
Placebo 
(N=122) 
Difference 
(95% CI) 
Estimated Treatment 
8.3 
6.7 
-1.7 
56% 
42% 
95.4 
93.6 
-1.78 
13 
0.15 
7.4 
6.1 
8.5 
7.4 
-1.0 
29% 
13% 
93.8 
96.3 
+0.96 
-0.20 
-0.71 (-0.95 to -0.47)* 
--* 
--* 
1.6 
-2.74 (-3.74 to -1.74)* 
20 
-6.5 (-12.24 to -
0.79)** 
0.20 
-0.05 (-0.10 to 0.00) 
7.4 
6.5 
-0.01 
-0.41 (-0.99 to 0.18) 
Abbreviations:  CI = confidence interval. 
Between-treatment difference:  * p<0.001, ** p<0.05 
The proportion of patients reaching HbA1c < 7.0 % in the placebo group is 29%, indicating that no 
exenatide therapy at all would have been necessary for these patients. In addition, in the exenatide 
group HbA1c<7.0% is 56%, HbA1c ≤6.5% is 42%. Therefore, in study GWCO there seems to be a 
number of patients that had already reached their HbA1c target at baseline. This hinders the 
interpretation of efficacy. The MAH provided clarification on these points during the procedure (see 
section Discsussion). 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 13/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  3.  LS  mean  (SE)  change  in  HbA1c  from  baseline  to  Endpoint  (Week  24  [LOCF])  by 
treatment (Study IOPB [N = 337]) – ITT population. 
Insulin dose 
In study GWCO, subjects receiving exenatide, administered statistically significantly lower insulin doses 
in units (U) at Weeks 8, 10, 14, 18, 22, 26, and 30 compared to placebo (p<0.05). The LS mean (SE) 
insulin dose per day in U was statistically significantly lower for exenatide-treated subjects (62 [2] U) 
compared to placebo-treated subjects (69 [2] U, p=.026) at Week 30.  
In Study IOPB, insulin dose at endpoint (LOCF) was analyzed by 24-hour total daily insulin. 
The mean (SE) treatment difference at endpoint for ILPS (31 [1.5] U) compared to insulin glargine (38 
[1.4] U; p<.001) resulted in statistically significantly greater insulin doses for the insulin glargine 
treatment group.  
In study GWCO, during the initial 4 weeks of treatment (exenatide or placebo), subjects with an HbA1c 
≤8.0% decreased their prestudy dose of insulin glargine by 20% and subjects with an HbA1c ≥8.1% 
maintained their prestudy insulin dose. Beginning at Week 5, insulin doses for the exenatide and 
placebo treatment groups were actively titrated with guidance from the investigator toward predefined 
fasting plasma glucose (FPG) targets. In both groups, the mean daily insulin dose increased from 
baseline to week 30 with the final dose being higher in the placebo group. Despite this, there was a 
statistically significant difference in favour of exenatide with respect to reduction of HbA1c.  
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 14/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  4.  LS  mean  (SE)  change  in  body  weight  from  baseline  to  endpoint  by  treatment 
(Studies GWCO [N = 259] and IOPB [N = 337]) – ITT population. 
The LS mean (SE) change in body weight from baseline at Week 30 was a reduction of -1.8 (0.3) kg 
for subjects treated with exenatide, which was significantly different from the weight gain of +1.0 (0.3) 
kg observed for the placebo-treated subjects (p<0.001). 
As expected, in study GWCO there was a statistically significant difference in favour of exenatide with 
respect to weight lowering. 
Table 8 Summary of Blood Pressure Values in Studies GWCO (N = 259) and IOPB (N=337) – 
ITT Population 
The addition of exenatide to insulin did not result in any signs of a detrimental effect on blood 
pressure, but rather a moderate reduction compared to placebo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 15/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in special populations (study GWCO) 
Table 9 LS Mean (SE) Change in HbA1c From Baseline to Week 30 by Treatment and 
Intrinsic Factors: Gender, Age, Ethnicity, Renal Function, Baseline HbA1c Stratum, and 
Duration of Diabetes 
There were no major differences with respect to efficacy in the subgroups examined, although the 
number of patients in some of the groups was rather limited. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 16/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 Change from Baseline in HbA1c at Week 30 by Treatment and Extrinsic Factors: 
Baseline Dose and Baseline OAD (GWCO, Intent-to-Treat Population [N = 259]) 
There were no major differences with respect to efficacy based on baseline insulin dose or OAD. The 
number of patients with only pioglitazone was very limited. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
N/A 
2.4.3.  Discussion 
This application aims to extend the indication of exenatide to include combination with basal insulin. 
Support for this additional indication is based on 2 studies:  H8O-US-GWCO (GWCO) and F3Z-US-IOPB 
(IOPB).  The design of study GWCO, in which exenatide and placebo is added to ongoing insulin 
therapy (+/- OAD) was considered as adequate for the objective to assess whether the addition of 
exenatide can provide additional effect in comparison to placebo.  The design of study IOPB, in which 
insulin is added to ongoing exenatide treatment, does not provide any substantial data on the efficacy 
of exenatide in combination with insulin, but contributes safety data for the combination +/- different 
OADs. 
In studies GWCO and IOPB a number of subjects were included being in excess of BMI criteria (BMI 
>45 kg/m2) at baseline.  Since this concerned only 6 (1%) subjects, and the changes in HbA1c and 
body weight for these patients were similar to the overall results for subjects, the CHMP agreed that 
the inclusion of these 6 subjects in the ITT analyses has not affected the final conclusion of the studies. 
In study GWCO, in the placebo group as well as in the exenatide group, 13 subjects had a HbA1c ≥ 
7.1% at screening that subsequently decreased to below this target by baseline.  Per definition, these 
patients had already reached treatment target when they were randomised to treatment. However, 
since the number of patients was low and there was no imbalance between treatment groups, this 
would not have had affected the overall results. 
For add-on studies, it is recommended to select patients not meeting therapeutic targets on the 
established agent alone at maximal tolerated or recommended dose. In study GWCO, during the initial 
4 weeks of treatment, subjects with an HbA1c ≤8.0% decreased their prestudy dose of insulin glargine 
by 20% and subjects with an HbA1c ≥8.1% maintained their prestudy insulin dose. Beginning at Week 
5, insulin doses for the exenatide and placebo treatment groups were actively titrated with guidance 
from the investigator toward predefined fasting plasma glucose (FPG) targets. In both groups, the 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 17/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mean daily insulin dose increased from baseline to week 30 with 13 and 20/U per day in the exenatide 
and placebo groups respectively. Apparently, the patients were not optimally titrated at study start.  
Looking at the results in the placebo group, 29% of the patients reached a HbA1c below 7% and were 
therefore not in need of additional treatment.  It could therefore be argued that it may have been 
more adequate to optimize the insulin dose before randomization and add exenatide to “true” non-
responders. However, the insulin doses in the placebo group was higher compared to the exenatide 
group at week 30 and despite this difference, there was a statistically significant difference in favour of 
exenatide with respect to reduction of HbA1c compared to placebo (-0.71%, CI -0.95% to -0.47%). 
There was also a higher proportion of patients reaching a HbA1c below 7%, demonstrating that 
exenatide does provide additional glucose lowering effect on top of insulin treatment. 
As expected, in study GWCO there was a statistically significant difference in favour of exenatide with 
respect to weight lowering. 
In conclusion, adding exenatide to ongoing insulin therapy in combination with optimization of insulin 
therapy resulted in a clinically relevant reduction of HbA1c and, albeit to a lesser extent, body weight 
compared to placebo. 
2.5.  Clinical Safety  
2.5.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Patient exposure 
A total of 600 subjects were randomly assigned to a treatment in Studies GWCO and IOPB. Of these 
subjects, 596 received at least 1 dose of randomly assigned study drug. Two subjects (1 from each 
treatment group) in Study IOPB received study drug but did not have any post baseline data, therefore 
307 subjects are in the intent-to-treat (ITT) data set. These subjects who were exposed to study drug 
constitute the ITT sample and serve as the primary population of interest for analyses. Of the 596 ITT 
subjects, 474 (80%) received exenatide treatment in combination with basal insulin (ILPS or insulin 
glargine). Subjects in these studies were exposed to randomly assigned study treatment for a mean of 
at least 22 weeks across studies and treatment groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 18/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 Subject Numbers and Mean Treatment Duration in Studies GWCO and IOPB 
The number of patients exposed to the combination of insulin and exenatide was considered as 
adequate while the mean duration of exposure is rather short which may be of importance concerning 
the occurrence of rare adverse events. 
2.5.2.  Results 
Adverse events 
In Study GWCO, TEAEs were reported in 109 (79.6%) exenatide subjects and 86 (70.5%) placebo 
subjects.  A total of 94 (36.3%) subjects experienced adverse events that the investigator considered 
to be possibly related to study medication (50.4% exenatide subjects; 20.5% placebo subjects). Eight 
exenatide subjects and 11 placebo subjects experienced treatment-emergent SAEs, of which 1 event in 
a placebo subject (myocardial infarction) resulted in death. Twelve exenatide subjects and 2 placebo 
subjects (including 1 death) discontinued due to TEAEs. One exenatide subject withdrew due to an 
adverse event that was not treatment emergent. All other subjects withdrew due to vomiting or 
nausea, except one subject due to headache. 
In Study IOPB, TEAEs were reported in 86 (50.3%) ILPS subjects and 110 (65.5%) insulin glargine 
subjects. Of these, 13 (3.8%) were considered related to study drug as assessed by the investigator 
(10 [5.8%] ILPS subjects; 3 [1.8%] insulin glargine subjects). Serious adverse events were reported 
by 9 (5.3%) ILPS subjects, while 5 (3.0%) insulin glargine subjects reported SAEs. There were no 
deaths reported in either treatment group. Five (1.5%) of all subjects withdrew from the study due to 
an adverse event (3 [1.8%] ILPS subjects; 2 [1.2%] insulin glargine subjects). 
Common adverse events 
In Study GWCO, nausea was the most common adverse event reported, occurring in 40.9% and 8.2% 
of exenatide and placebo subjects, respectively. Consistent with the known safety profile of exenatide, 
the incidence of nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting were higher in subjects treated with exenatide 
compared to those treated with placebo. Headache and constipation also occurred at higher frequency 
in exenatide subjects compared to placebo subjects. The majority of adverse events were mild to 
moderate in intensity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 19/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12. Number (%) of Subjects With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events with an 
Incidence Equal to or Greater than 2% in Any Treatment Group (GWCO; ITT [N=259]) 
In Study IOPB, for subjects who had ≥1 TEAE (n=196, 58.2%), a significantly greater percentage was 
reported for the insulin glargine treatment group (n=110, 65.9%) versus the ILPS treatment group 
(n=86, 50.6%) (p=.006). The most common TEAEs (occurring ≥3%) were headache (7.4%), nausea 
(6.5%), diarrhoea (6.2%), nasopharyngitis (5.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (5.9%), sinusitis 
(4.7%), gastroenteritis viral (4.2%), vomiting (4.2%), arthralgia (3.9%), nasal congestion (3.3%), 
abdominal discomfort (3%), and oropharyngeal pain (3%); with the exception of viral gastroenteritis, 
there were no statistically significant differences between the treatment groups for any of these 
events. Viral gastroenteritis was reported significantly more often in the insulin glargine treatment 
group (n=12, 7.2%) versus the ILPS treatment group (n=2, 1.2%) (p=.006). 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 20/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13.  Number (%) of Subjects With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events With an 
Incidence 2% in Any Treatment Group (Study IOPB; Intent-to-Treat Population [N = 337]) 
Overall, as expected, patients who initiated exenatide in study GWCO had a high incidence of GI 
symptoms. These adverse events are to a large extent transient, which is confirmed in study IOPB in 
which the incidence of nausea was 6-7%. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
One death was reported during Study GWCO. Subject 8001 (placebo), a 65-year-old Mexican male 
with a medical history of arterial hypertension, unspecified arrhythmia, atrioventricular block, and 
complete right bundle branch block, experienced a fatal myocardial infarction approximately 3 months 
after initiation of study medication. 
In Study GWCO, a total of 8 (5.8%) exenatide and 11 (9.0%) placebo-treated subjects experienced at 
least 1 treatment-emergent serious adverse event during the study. 
Two serious adverse events (Subject 2700 [placebo], urticaria; Subject 9100 [exenatide], accidental 
overdose) were assessed by the investigator as related to study medication. With the exception of the 
fatal myocardial infarction, none of the serious adverse events resulted in discontinuation from the 
study, and the majority of serious adverse events resolved during the study, without interruption of 
study medication treatment. With the exception of 3 events of chest pain (1 exenatide subject, 1 
placebo subject [2 events]) and 2 exenatide subjects who experienced osteoarthritis, serious adverse 
events occurred as a single instance for that Preferred Term category. One placebo subject 
experienced the serious adverse event of hypoglycaemia. There were no serious adverse events of 
hypoglycaemia reported among exenatide subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 21/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events (Study GWCO; Intent-to-Treat 
Population [N = 259]) 
In Study IOPB, a total of 14 patients (4.2%) reported SAEs: 9 (5.3%) in the ILPS treatment group and 
5 (3.0%) in the insulin glargine treatment group. Most of the events were severe in intensity. One 
patient in the ILPS treatment group reported an SAE of hypoglycaemia during the study. The most 
commonly reported SAE in the ILPS treatment group was atrial fibrillation, which was reported in 2 
patients (1.2%); the events were severe in both patients but were considered to be not related to 
study treatment by the investigator. All other SAEs for ILPS treatment were reported only once. There 
was no significant difference between treatment groups on incidence of any reported SAEs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 22/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15. Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events (Study IOPB; Intent-to-Treat 
Population [N=337]) 
In study GWCO, there was no difference in the incidence of SAE between the placebo and exenatide 
groups and overall in both studies there was no clustering of any SAE. There was one case of 
malignancy in study IOPB.  This clinical trial case regarded a 53 year old Caucasian female. Rectal 
bleeding was present at time of screening, no diagnosis of cancer was made (despite being a 
symptom). Several months history of recurring rectal bleeding. The patient's risk factors for colon 
cancer were high fat diet and obesity. She received multiple concomitant medications. The patient 
received study drug 24 units daily on 28Jan08 via a device. On 18Mar08 she had a colonoscopy which 
showed a tumor and a biopsy was taken. The biopsy was found to be malignant. Thus, the patient 
received the combination of insulin and exenatide for 3 months and it is not likely that this was related 
to the malignancy. Overall, the time of exposure in the referred studies is too short to draw any 
conclusions on the risk of neoplasms. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 23/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events of special interest 
Table 16. Overview of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Clinical Interest (Study 
GWCO; Intent-to-Treat Population [N = 259]) 
[1] Includes both minor and major hypoglycaemia. Most events collected were not adverse events. Minor 
hypoglycaemia defined as symptoms consistent with hypoglycaemia that a concurrent finger stick blood glucose 
concentration <3.0 mmol/L (54 mg/dL). Major hypoglycaemia defined as symptoms consistent with 
hypoglycaemia that resulted in loss of consciousness or seizure that showed prompt recovery in response to 
administration of glucagon or glucose or documented hypoglycaemia (blood glucose concentration <3.0 mmol/L 
[54 mg/dL]) that required the assistance of another person because of severe impairment in consciousness or 
behavior (whether or not symptoms of hypoglycaemia were detected by the subject). 
Hypoglycaemic adverse events 
In Studies GWCO and IOPB, hypoglycaemia events were categorized as the following. 
  Major hypoglycaemia - any episode with symptoms consistent with hypoglycaemia resulting in loss 
of consciousness or seizure that shows prompt recovery in response to administration of glucagon 
or glucose or documented hypoglycaemia (blood glucose <3.0 mmol/L [54 mg/dL]) requiring the 
assistance of another person because of severe impairment in consciousness or behavior (whether 
or not symptoms of hypoglycaemia are detected by the subject). 
  Minor hypoglycaemia - any time a subject feels that he or she is experiencing a sign or symptom 
associated with hypoglycaemia that is either self-treated by the subject or resolves on its own and 
has a concurrent fingerstick blood glucose <3.0 mmol/L (54 mg/dL). 
  Symptoms of hypoglycaemia - all other reported hypoglycaemic adverse events that did not fit the 
definitions of major or minor hypoglycaemia. 
  Non-nocturnal hypoglycaemia - any hypoglycaemic episode that occurred after breakfast and 
before bedtime. 
  Nocturnal hypoglycaemia – any hypoglycaemic episode that occurred after bedtime and before 
breakfast. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 24/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17. Summary of Hypoglycaemia Events (Study GWCO;Intent-to-Treat Population 
[N=259]) 
Table 18. Summary of Hypoglycaemia Events (Study IOPB; Intent-to-Treat Population 
[N=337]) 
There was no difference in the incidence of hypoglycaemia between exenatide and placebo in study 
GWCO. Cases of major hypoglycaemia were few. 
In study IOPB, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was somewhat higher in the glargine group compared 
to ILPS.  
Cardiac events 
Eight (5.8%) exenatide and 9 (7.4%) placebo subjects experienced at least 1 adverse event 
categorized as a cardiac event; 22 total events. The majority of these events were mild or moderate in 
intensity; 5 events were severe in intensity (Subject 6013 [placebo], palpitations and chest pain; 
Subject 4007 [exenatide], coronary artery occlusion; Subject 5001 [exenatide], left ventricular 
hypertrophy; Subject 8001 [placebo], myocardial infarction). Seven of the 22 cardiac events were 
serious adverse events. With the exceptions of 1 event of palpitations (Subject 6100 [exenatide]), and 
2 chest pain events (Subjects 1401 [exenatide] and 1400 [placebo]), the cardiac adverse events were 
assessed by the investigator as unrelated to study medication. 
In Study GWCO, the mean baseline heart rate was 75 and 73 beats per minute in the exenatide and 
placebo groups, respectively. A small increase in LS mean heart rate from baseline to Week 30 of +2.3 
beats per minute was noted in exenatide subjects compared to a change from baseline to Week 30 of -
0.7 beats per minute in placebo subjects. 
Overall, nothing unexpected was found concerning cardiac events. A minor increase in heart rate has 
been seen in previous exenatide studies, but this does not seem to translate into an increase in blood 
pressure. 
Potentially Immune-Related Adverse Events 
The list of eligible terms for potentially immune-related events includes terms related to injection-site 
events, generalized pruritus and urticaria, rash, angiooedema, and anaphylaxis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 25/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Study GWCO, 9 (6.6%) exenatide and 9 (7.4%) placebo subjects experienced a total of 20 
potentially immune-related TEAEs. Events of arthralgia (1 exenatide, 1 placebo), injection site reaction 
(1 exenatide), pruritus (1 exenatide, 1 placebo), rash erythematous (1 exenatide) and urticaria 
(2 placebo) were assessed by the investigator as related to study medication; the remaining events 
were assessed as unrelated to study medication. With the exception of 2 events of severe urticaria 
(placebo subjects), all events were mild or moderate in intensity, 1 event of urticaria (Subject 2700 
[placebo]) was also a serious adverse event, and 1 event of joint swelling (Subject 3407 [placebo]) led 
to withdrawal from the study. Fourteen of the 20 total events resolved. Antibodies to exenatide were 
not measured in Study GWCO. 
It is known that patients developing high anti exenatide antibodies have an increased risk of injection 
site reactions, and already taken into account in the SmPC. 
Abdominal pain, pancreatitis 
In Study GWCO, the incidence of abdominal pain was similar between the 2 treatment groups. 
A total of 10 (7.3%) exenatide subjects and 9 (7.4%) placebo subjects experienced at least 1 TEAE of 
abdominal pain. All of these events were assessed as mild to moderate in intensity by the investigator. 
There were no treatment-emergent events of pancreatitis reported during Study GWCO or IOPB. 
Laboratory findings 
In Study GWCO, no clinically meaningful changes from baseline to endpoint were noted in 
haematology, chemistry, or urinalysis assessments in any treatment group. 
Safety in special populations 
Age 
In Study GWCO, 184 (71%) subjects were <65 years of age and 75 (29%) subjects were ≥65 years of 
age, with the mean age comparable between the treatment groups. 
Review of TEAEs by age category indicated adverse event profiles that were generally comparable 
between the age groups and consistent with the primary study results and also consistent with 
previous clinical trials of exenatide. The incidence of nausea was higher in exenatide subjects <65 
years of age (44.0%) compared to exenatide subjects ≥65 years of age (32.4%), but comparable to 
the incidence of nausea in exenatide subjects in the overall ITT Population (40.9%). 
In Study IOPB, among all randomized patients (n=339), the mean age of the sample was 56.4 years 
and most patients (n=273, 80.5%) were under 65 years of age, with the mean age comparable 
between treatment groups. 
Reviews of TEAEs by age category were generally comparable between age groups. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events between age groups were similar as related to nausea (<65 = 
6.64%; >65 = 6.06%) and diarrhoea (<65 = 6.27%; >65 = 6.06%). 
In study GWCO, 75 patients were ≥65 years.  
There were no indications of major differences in the adverse events based on age. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 26/36
 
 
 
 
 
Gender 
In Study GWCO, there were 148 male subjects and 111 female subjects, with approximately 
10% more female subjects in the exenatide group relative to the placebo group. In general, the 
incidence of gastrointestinal side effects (such as nausea and vomiting), headache, and dizziness was 
greater among female subjects compared to male subjects in both treatment groups. This difference 
by gender was also observed in previous clinical trials of exenatide.  
In Study IOPB, there were 169 male subjects and 170 female subjects, with 95 (55.6%) females 
and 76 (44.4%) males in the ILPS group. There were 75 (44.6%) females and 93 (55.4%) males 
in the insulin glargine group. In general, events such as nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, and headache 
were greater among female subjects compared to male subjects in both treatment groups. 
Renal Function 
In Study GWCO, 225 subjects had normal renal function (defined as estimated glomerular filtration 
rate [eGFR] ≥80mL/minute [min]), 28 subjects had mild impairment of renal function (eGFR ≥50 
mL/min and <80 mL/min), and 6 subjects had moderate impairment of renal function (eGFR <30 to 50 
mL/min). The proportions of subjects with normal, mild, or moderate renal impairment were generally 
balanced across the treatment groups. There were no subjects with severe impairment of renal 
function (eGFR <30 mL/min). 
In general, adverse event profiles were comparable in subjects with normal renal function or mild or 
moderate impairment of renal function with the exceptions that gastrointestinal adverse events such as 
nausea and vomiting occurred at higher incidence in exenatide subjects with moderate renal 
impairment and events of minor hypoglycaemia occurred at higher incidence in exenatide and placebo 
subjects with moderate renal impairment. These results were consistent with observations in previous 
clinical trials of exenatide. 
In Study IOPB, 315 subjects had normal renal function (defined as eGFR ≥80mL/min) and 22 subjects 
had mild impairment of renal function (eGFR ≥50 mL/min and <80mL/min). The proportions of 
subjects with normal and mild renal impairment were generally balanced across the treatment groups. 
There were no subjects with severe impairment of renal function (eGFR <30 mL/min). In general, 
adverse event profiles were comparable in subjects withnormal renal function or mild impairment of 
renal function, with the exception of gastroenteritis viral which occurred more frequently in the insulin 
glargine group (10) than in the ILPS group (2) in those subjects with normal renal function. 
The current product information already recommends careful dose titration in patients with moderate 
renal impairment while the treatment of patients with severe impairment is not recommended. 
Therefore the current results were not considered to have an impact of these recommendations. 
Exposure in published studies 
The MAH has performed a literature search to identify clinical studies or case reports that describe the 
use of exenatide with short-acting and/or basal insulins.  
The final search results identified 15 manuscripts and 33 abstracts (including those for Studies GWCO 
and IOPB) that reported information potentially relevant to understanding the clinical use, particularly 
safety, of exenatide in combination with insulin in humans. 
Overall, the publications, excluding those for Studies GWCO and IOPB, describe exposure of more than 
5000 subjects to exenatide in combination with short-acting and/or basal insulins, including (when 
specified) insulin glargine and insulin detemir. The results of the reported studies do not indicate any 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 27/36
 
 
 
 
safety findings unique to the use of exenatide in combination with insulin and are consistent with the 
results of Studies GWCO and IOPB.  
2.5.3.  Discussion 
A total of 600 subjects were randomly assigned to a treatment in Studies GWCO and IOPB. Of the 596 
ITT subjects, 474 (80%) received exenatide treatment in combination with basal insulin (ILPS or 
insulin glargine). Subjects in these studies were exposed to randomly assigned study treatment for a 
mean of at least 22 weeks across studies and treatment groups. 
In the clinical study GWCO, the insulin dose was reduced by 20% in subjects with an HbA1c ≤8.0%. 
This standard dose reduction of insulin in patients with a relative low HbA1C for the risk of 
hypoglycaemia was considered to be relevant with regard to safety. To alleviate concerns by the CHMP, 
guidance on this is now provided in section 4.2 of the SmPC. Overall, CHMP agreed that insulin 
treatment should be individualized and too strict recommendations are not warranted. 
There was no difference in the incidence of hypoglycaemia between exenatide and placebo in study 
GWCO. In study IOPB, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was somewhat higher in the glargine group 
compared to ILPS. In study IOPB, an increased incidence of hypoglycaemia in combination with SU was 
found. Even though combined use with SU is not part of the requested indication, information on the 
incidence of hypoglycaemia in patients where existing therapy included SU is now included in section 
4.8 of the SmPC to address this concern. 
No unexpected safety findings were recorded in the studies. Gastrointestinal adverse event were 
common in patients initiating exenatide. One case of malignancy was reported, most likely not related 
to treatment.  
An association of GLP 1 analogues and the finding of c-cell tumours in rats has been extensively 
discussed in the past with no firm conclusion as to whether this is relevant to humans or not.  The 
possible risk of pancreatic cancer with GLP 1 analogues has also been included in the RMP as a safety 
concern. Considering a possible tumour promoting effect of insulin analogues, the risk of malignant 
neoplasm following combination treatment with insulin has been identified and is now included as a 
potential risk in the RMP. As the time of exposure in the referred studies was too short to draw any 
conclusions concerning this potential safety issue, this is addressed within the RMP by relevant 
pharmacovigilance criteria: All events of pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms are captured in 
patients using exenatide in an ongoing CV outcome study. The same approach is taken in an 
epidemiological study aimed at investigating pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms events. Both 
events will now be also specifically captured with regard to cases on combination treatment with 
exenatide and insulin (see sections below).  
Overall, no unexpected safety findings were recorded in the studies with the combined use of 
exenatide and insulin, and possible identified risks are adequately addressed in the RMP.  
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated Risk Management Plan within this variation procedure. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 28/36
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan (including the changes related to 
the application presented highlighted) 
Safety 
Concern 
Agreed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Agreed Risk Minimization Activities 
Pancreatitis 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  SmPC 4.4 and 4.8, includes an 
  Targeted surveillance of pancreatitis events 
appropriate description of the 
  Additional  information from ongoing clinical 
observed events of pancreatitis.   
trials 
  Completed a mechanistic study to evaluate 
potential change in gallbladder emptying 
following exenatide administration as a 
surrogate measure of increased tone of the 
sphincter of Oddi is onging.   
Acute Renal 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  SmPC 4.4 and 4.8, includes an 
Failure 
  Additional  information from ongoing clinical 
appropriate description of the 
trials 
observed events of acute renal 
  Targeted surveillance of acute renal 
failure.   
failure/insufficiency, dehydration, and 
hypovolaemia events. 
Rapid Weight 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
  SmPC 4.4 and 4.8 includes an 
Loss 
Risks 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
 
In general no association has been 
appropriate description of the 
observed event of rapid weight loss.   
Associated with 
  Targeted surveillance of allergic/immunologic 
identified between anti-exenatide 
Anti-exenatide 
events (anaphylaxis, angiooedema, laryngeal 
antibodies and SAEs.  An association 
Antibodies 
(focus on 
oedema). 
has been identified for nonserious 
  Additional  information from ongoing clinical 
injections-site reactions.   
anaphylactic-
trials 
type reactions) 
 
 SmPC 4.8 includes language on 
anti-exenatide antibodies and 
injection site reactions. 
 
SmPC 4.3 includes contraindication 
for use in individuals with known 
hypersensitivity to exenatide or 
formulation excipients 
Cardiac Events 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
 
No association identified between 
exenatide and cardiac events to 
date. 
Pancreatic 
cancer  
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  No association identified between 
  Additional  information from ongoing clinical 
exenatide and pancreatic cancer to 
trials 
date. 
  Targeted surveillance for treatment-emergent 
malignancies and neoplasms with focus on 
pancreatic cancer. 
 
Initiate  a pharmaepidemiologic study in the 
US to assess the absolute and relative risk of 
pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms 
among type 2 diabetes mellitus patients who 
initiate exenatide twice daily as compared to 
other antidiabetes drugs  
Thyroid  
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
  No association identified between 
neoplasms (C-
  Additional  information from ongoing clinical 
exenatide and thyroid  neoplasms to 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 29/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Agreed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Agreed Risk Minimization Activities 
cell hyperplasia 
trials 
date. 
and Non-C-cell 
cancer) 
  Targeted surveillance for treatment-emergent 
malignancies and neoplasms with focus on 
thyroid neoplasms. 
  Initiate  a pharmaepidemiologic study in the US 
to assess the absolute and relative risk of 
pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms 
among type 2 diabetes mellitus patients who 
initiate exenatide twice daily as compared to 
other antidiabetes drugs 
Malignant 
neoplasm 
following 
combination 
treatment with 
insulin 
  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
  No association identified between 
  Continued targeted surveillance for treatment-
emergent malignancies and neoplasms. 
 
Initiate a pharmacoepidemiological study in 
the US to assess the absolute and relative risk 
of pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms 
among type 2 diabetic patients who initiate 
exenatide twice daily as compared to other 
antidiabetes drugs. 
exenatide and combination insulin 
use and malignant neoplasms to 
date. 
Adolescents 
  Conduct a double blind, placebo controlled 
 
SmPC 4.2 states with respect to 
study to assess safety and efficacy of 
children and adolescents, “The safety 
exenatide twice daily (as monotherapy and 
and effectiveness of exenatide have 
adjunctive therapy to oral antidiabetic agents) 
not been established in patients 
in children and adolescents with type 2 
under 18 years of age.”   
diabetes. 
Pregnant 
Women 
  Implemented a pregnancy registry beginning in 
 
SmPC 4.6 states with respect to 
December 2007 to determine whether 
pregnancy and lactation, That there 
exenatide poses a risk to pregnant women or 
are no adequate data from the use of 
their developing foetuses.   
BYETTA in pregnant women.  Studies 
in animals have shown reproductive 
toxicity (see Section 5.3 [of the 
SmPC]).  The potential risk for 
humans is unknown.  BYETTA should 
not be used during pregnancy and 
the use of insulin is recommended.   
Very Elderly 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
 
SmPC 4.2 states with respect to the 
(75 years of 
age) 
elderly, “BYETTA should be used with 
caution and dose escalation from 
5 µg to 10 µg should proceed 
conservatively in patients >70 years. 
The clinical experience in patients 
>75 years is very limited.””   
Use of 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
 
No differential adverse event profile 
Exenatide in 
Combination 
with TZDs or 
insulins  
Severe 
Gastrointestinal 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
has been found for patients taking 
exenatide in combination with TZDs 
or insulins.  
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
 
SmPC 4.4 states with respect to 
patients with severe gastrointestinal 
Page 30/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Concern 
Disease  
Various 
Degrees of 
Impaired Renal 
Function 
Hepatic 
Impairment 
Agreed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Agreed Risk Minimization Activities 
disease, “BYETTA has not been 
studied in patients with severe 
gastrointestinal disease, including 
gastroparesis. Its use is commonly 
associated with gastrointestinal 
adverse reactions, including nausea, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea. Therefore, 
the use of BYETTA is not 
recommended in patients with 
severe gastrointestinal disease.”   
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
 
SmPC 4.2 states with respect to 
patients with varying degrees of 
renal function impairment, “No 
dosage adjustment is necessary inr 
patients with mild renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance 50 –
 80 ml/min).  
 
In patients with moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance: 
30-50 ml/min), dose escalation from 
5µg to 10µg should proceed 
conservatively (see section 5.2).  
 
BYETTA is not recommended for use 
in patients with end-stage renal 
disease or severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) 
(see section 4.4). 
  Routine pharmacovigilance  
 
SmPC 5.2 states with respect to 
patients with hepatic impairment, 
“No pharmacokinetic study has been 
performed in patients with hepatic 
insufficiency. Exenatide is cleared 
primarily by the kidney, therefore 
hepatic dysfunction is not expected 
to affect blood concentrations of 
exenatide.” In addition, SmPC 4.2 
states “No dose adjustment is 
necessary for patients with hepatic 
impairment.”  
Abbreviations:  SAE = serious adverse event; SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics; TZDs = 
thiazolidinediones. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
Inclusion of patients on insulin comedication in the ongoing CV outcome study 
unchanged 
GWDQ [BCB109]  
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 31/36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
All events of pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms on combination treatment 
unchanged 
with exenatide and insulin will be analysed in patients using exenatide in the 
epidemiological studies 
These pharmacovigilance activities are in addition to those already requested. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.7.  Changes to the Product Information 
The  MAH  proposed  the  following  changes  to  the  Product  Information  (PI),  to  which  the  CHMP  agreed 
(underlined = new text, strikethrough = deleted text):  
Section 4.1 Therapeutic indications of the SmPC 
. . . 
BYETTA  is  also  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  basal  insulin  with  or  without  metformin  and/or 
pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these agents.   
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration of the SmPC 
Posology 
. . . 
BYETTA is recommended for use in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are already receiving 
metformin, a sulphonylurea, pioglitazone and/or a basal insulin. One can continue to use BYETTA when 
a basal insulin is added to existing therapy. . . . When BYETTA is used in combination with basal 
insulin, the dose of basal insulin should be evaluated. In patients at increased risk of hypoglycaemia 
consider reducing the dose of basal insulin (see section 4.8). 
The dose of BYETTA does not need to be adjusted on a day-by-day basis depending on self-monitored 
glycaemia. However, blood glucose self-monitoring may become necessary to adjust the dose of 
sulphonylureas or the dose of basal insulin.  
. . . 
Method of administration 
Each dose should be administered as a subcutaneous injection in the thigh, abdomen, or upper arm. 
BYETTA and basal insulin must be administered as two separate injections. 
4.6  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
.  .  .  When  BYETTA  is  used  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  or  a  basal insulin,  patients  should  be 
advised to take precautions to avoid hypoglycaemia while driving and using machines. 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects of the SmPC 
Table  1:  Adverse  reactions  reported  in  long  term  phase  3  controlled  studies1  and 
spontaneous adverse reactions3  
. . . 
3 Post marketing reports 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 32/36
 
 
 
 
 
When  BYETTA  was  used  in  combination  with  basal  insulin  therapy  the  incidence  and  types  of  other 
adverse  events  observed  were  similar  to  those  seen  in  the  controlled  clinical  trials  with  exenatide  as 
monotherapy, with metformin and/or sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin. 
. . . 
In  a  30  week  study,  when  BYETTA  or  placebo  was  added  to  existing  basal  insulin  therapy(insulin 
glargine),  the  dose  of  basal  insulin  was  decreased  by  20 %  in  patients  with  an  HbA1c  ≤ 8.0  %,  per 
protocol design in order to minimize the risk of hypoglycaemia. Both treatment arms were titrated to 
achieve  target  fasting  plasma  glucose  levels  (see  section  5.1).  There  were  no  clinically  significant 
differences in the incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes in the BYETTA compared to the placebo group 
(25% and 29% respectively). There were no episodes of major hypoglycaemia in the BYETTA arm. 
In a 24 week study, where either insulin lispro protamine suspension or insulin glargine was added to 
existing therapy of BYETTA and metformin or metformin plus thiazolidinedione the incidence of patients 
with at least one minor hypoglycaemic episode was 18% and 9% respectively and one patient reported 
major  hypoglycaemia.  In patients  where  existing  therapy  also  included  a  sulphonylurea  the  incidence 
of  patients  with  at  least  one  minor  hypoglycaemic  episode  was  48%  and  54%  respectively  and  one 
patient reported major hypoglycaemia.  
Section 5.1 Pharmacological properties 
. . . 
Studies of BYETTA with metformin, a thiazolidinedione or both as background therapy 
Two placebo-controlled studies were conducted: one of 16 and one of 26 weeks duration, with 121 and 
111 BYETTA and 112 and 54 placebo treated patients respectively, added to existing thiazolidinedione 
treatment, with or without metformin. Of the BYETTA patients, 12% were treated with a 
thiazolidinedione and BYETTA and 82% were treated with a thiazolidinedione, metformin and BYETTA. 
BYETTA (5 µg BID for 4 weeks, followed by 10 µg BID) resulted in statistically significant reductions 
from baseline HbA1c compared to placebo (-0.7% versus +0.1%) as well as significant reductions in 
body weight (-1.5 versus 0 kg) in the 16 week study. The 26 week study showed similar results with 
statistically significant reductions from baseline HbA1c compared to placebo (-0.8% versus -0.1%). 
There was no significant difference in body weight between treatment groups in change from baseline 
to endpoint (-1.4 versus -0.8 kg). 
When BYETTA was used in combination with a thiazolidinedione, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was 
similar to that of placebo in combination with a thiazolidinedione. The experience in patients > 65 
years and in patients with impaired renal function is limited. The incidence and type of other adverse 
events observed were similar to those seen in the 30-week controlled clinical trials with a 
sulphonylurea, metformin or both. 
Studies of BYETTA in combination with basal insulin  
In a 30 week study, either BYETTA (5 µg BID for 4 weeks, followed by 10 µg BID) or a placebo was 
added to insulin glargine (with or without metformin, pioglitazone or both). During the study both 
treatment arms titrated insulin glargine using an algorithm reflecting current clinical practice to a 
target fasting plasma glucose of approximately 5.6 mmol/l. The mean age of subjects was 59 years 
and the mean duration of diabetes was 12.3 years.  
At the end of the study, BYETTA (n=137) demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the HbA1c 
and weight compared to placebo (n=122). BYETTA lowered HbA1c by 1.7 % from a baseline of 8.3 % 
while placebo lowered HbA1c by 1.0 % from a baseline of 8.5 %. The proportion of patients achieving 
HbA1c <7% and HbA1c ≤6.5% was 56 % and 42 % with BYETTA and 29 % and 13 % with placebo. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 33/36
 
 
 
 
Weight loss of 1.8 kg from a baseline of 95 kg was observed with BYETTA whereas a weight gain of 1.0 
kg from a baseline of 94kg was observed with placebo.  
In the BYETTA arm the insulin dose increased by 13 units/day compared to 20 units/ day on the 
placebo arm. BYETTA reduced fasting serum glucose by 1.3 mmol/l and placebo by 0.9 mmol/l. 
BYETTA arm compared to placebo had significantly lowered postprandial blood glucose excursions at 
the morning meal (- 2.0 versus - 0.2 mmol/l) and evening meal (- 1.6 versus + 0.1 mmol/l), there 
was no difference between treatments at midday. 
In a 24 week study, where either insulin lispro protamine suspension or insulin glargine was added to 
existing therapy of BYETTA and metformin, metformin and sulphonylurea or metformin and 
pioglitazone, HbA1c was lowered by 1.2 % (n=170) and by 1.4 % (n=167) respectively from a 
baseline of 8.2 %. Weight increase of 0.2 kg was observed for patients on insulin lispro protamine 
suspension and 0.6 kg for insulin glargine treated patients from a baseline of 102 kg and 103 kg 
respectively. 
Previous reference to use of insulin in the SmPC was changed as appropriate. Some sections have 
been deleted as they have been replaced by new sections (see above). The Package Leaflet has been 
updated accordingly. In addition minor changes have been made throughout the Product Information. 
2.8.  User consultation 
No user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed because the 
changes in the package leaflet were considered to be minor by the MAH, to which the CHMP agreed. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The current application aims to extend the indication of Byetta (Exenatide, as injection twice daily) to 
include the combination with basal insulin with or without metformin and/or a thiazolidinedione. The 
thiazolidinedione used in the underlying studies was in most cases pioglitazone. 
Support for this additional indication is based on 2 studies:  H8O-US-GWCO (GWCO) and F3Z-US-IOPB 
(IOPB).  The design of study GWCO, in which exenatide (as injection, twice daily) or placebo is added 
to ongoing insulin therapy (+/- OAD) was considered as adequate for the objective to assess whether 
the addition of exenatide can provide additional effect in comparison to placebo.  The design of study 
IOPB, in which insulin is added to ongoing exenatide treatment, does not provide any substantial data 
on the efficacy of exenatide in combination with insulin, but does contribute safety data for the 
combination +/- different OADs. 
Benefits 
For add-on studies, it is recommended to select patients not meeting therapeutic targets on the 
established agent alone at maximal tolerated or recommended dose. In study GWCO, during the initial 
4 weeks of treatment, subjects with an HbA1c ≤8.0% decreased their prestudy dose of insulin glargine 
by 20% and subjects with an HbA1c ≥8.1% maintained their prestudy insulin dose. Beginning at Week 
5, insulin doses for the exenatide and placebo treatment groups were actively titrated with guidance 
from the investigator toward predefined fasting plasma glucose (FPG) targets. In both groups, the 
mean daily insulin dose increased from baseline to week 30 with 13 and 20/U per day in the exenatide 
and placebo groups respectively. Thus, apparently the patients were not optimally titrated at study 
start. In the placebo group, 29% of the patients reached a HbA1c below 7% and were therefore not in 
need of additional treatment, and thus may have been not “true” non-responders.  
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 34/36
 
 
 
 
However, the insulin doses in the placebo group was higher compared to the exenatide group at week 
30. Despite this difference, there was a statistically significant difference in favor of exenatide with 
respect to reduction of HbA1c, as the primary outcome parameter, compared to placebo (-0.71%, CI -
0.95% to -0.47%). There was also a higher proportion of patients reaching a HbA1c below 7%, 
showing that exenatide does provide additional glucose lowering effect on top of insulin treatment. 
Further,it was taken into account by CHMP that the fact that insulin doses were not optimised before 
randomisation in study GWCO may provide a better reflection of clinical practice. 
As expected, in study GWCO there was a statistically significant difference in favor of exenatide with 
respect to weight lowering, which was a secondary outcome parameter. 
Risks 
A total of 600 subjects were randomly assigned to a treatment in Studies GWCO and IOPB. Of the 596 
ITT subjects, 474 (80%) received exenatide treatment in combination with basal insulin (ILPS or 
insulin glargine). Subjects in these studies were exposed to study treatment for a mean of at least 22 
weeks across studies and treatment groups. The treatment duration is thus rather short, especially 
concerning potential rare risks such as a possible tumour promoting effect.  
There was no difference in the incidence of hypoglycaemia between exenatide and placebo in study 
GWCO.  
Gastrointestinal adverse event were common in patients initiating exenatide. No unexpected safety 
findings were recorded in the studies. One case of malignancy was reported, most likely not related to 
treatment.   
The association of GLP 1 analogues and the finding of c-cell tumours in rats has been extensively 
discussed in the past with no firm conclusion as to whether this is relevant to humans or not. The 
possible risk of pancreatic cancer had already been covered by the RMP. The MAH has committed to 
address this issue within an ongoing CV safety study and in a planned epidemiological study, to which 
the MAH had agreed previously. All events of pancreatic cancer and thyroid neoplasms are captured in 
patients using exenatide in these studies, and also specifically with regard to cases of combined 
treatment with exenatide and insulin. The MAH has provided an updated RMP within this procedure to 
that regard. The risk of malignant neoplasm following combination treatment with insulin has therefore 
now been included as a potential risk in the updated RMP, as this has been the case for other GLP-1 
analogues.  
Balance 
In conclusion, even though the pivotal trial did not include exclusively “true” non-responders to insulin 
treatment, the results do show that exenatide provides additional glucose lowering effect on top of 
insulin treatment with a reduction of HbA1c of -0.71%, compared to placebo. No unexpected safety 
issues have been identified. The benefit/risk balance for this extension of indication was therefore 
considered to be positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation accepted 
C.I.6.a 
Change to therapeutic indication - Addition of a new 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Type 
II 
Page 35/36
 
 
 
 
Extension of indication to include Byetta as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without 
metformin and/or pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these 
agents. 
As a consequence, update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4., 4.6, 4.7, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. The Package 
Leaflet is updated in accordance. 
Furthermore, the MAH took this opportunity to introduce minor editorial updates throughout the PI.  
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this variation. In particular the EPAR 
module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Extension of indication to include Byetta as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without 
metformin and/or pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these 
agents. As a consequence, update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4., 4.6, 4.7, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. The 
Package Leaflet is updated in accordance. Furthermore, the MAH took this opportunity to introduce 
minor editorial updates throughout the PI.  
Summary 
For further information please refer to the scientific conclusion: Byetta-H-698-II-29-AR. 
Assessment report  
EMA/363251/2012  
Page 36/36
 
 
 
 
