SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Introduction 
The  hallmark  of  diabetes  mellitus  is  hyperglycaemia  resulting  from  impaired  carbohydrate 
metabolism.   
Type 2 diabetes has a complex pathophysiology characterised by deficient insulin activity arising from 
decreased  insulin  secretion  secondary  to  beta-cell  failure,  compromised  insulin  action  in  peripheral 
target tissues (insulin resistance), or a combination of the two abnormalities.  This abnormal metabolic 
state  is  exacerbated  by  excess  hepatic  glucose  production  and  altered  metabolism  of  proteins  and 
lipids,  which  along  with  hyperglycaemia,  contribute 
to  microvascular  and  macrovascular 
complications.  
Type 2 diabetes accounts for approximately 85% to 95% of diabetes cases in developed regions like 
the European Union. Age and weight are established risk factors for type 2 diabetes. The majority of 
patients with type 2 diabetes are overweight or obese.  
Diet  modification  and  exercise  is  the  first  line  treatment  for  type  2  diabetes.  Pharmacologic 
intervention with one oral antidiabetic agent (OAD) such as metformin or sulphonylureas or several 
OADs  in  combination  is  usually  the  next  step  in  treatment.  Other  second  line  oral  treatment 
alternatives include alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, meglitinides and thiazolidinediones. 
Currently,  insulin  is  the  remaining  treatment  option  for  patients  who  are  no  longer  achieving  good 
glycaemic control on OADs.  Different insulin regimens are used in type 2 diabetes; basal insulin or an 
insulin  mixture  is  often  added  to  existing  OAD  therapy.    Appropriate  insulin  doses  require  self-
monitoring of blood glucose and insulin use is often associated with weight gain.  
For patients with type 2 diabetes who are no longer achieving good glycaemic control on OADs, an 
effective and safe alternative to insulin could be beneficial. 
BYETTA contains exenatide which is an incretin mimetic. Endogenous incretins, such as glucagon-
like  peptide  1  (GLP-1),  facilitate  insulin  secretion  following  their  release  from  the  gut  into  the 
circulation in response to food intake.   
Incretin mimetics have multiple anti-hyperglycaemic actions that mimic some of the effects of GLP-1.  
These  actions  are  different  from  the  actions  of  any  other  currently  approved  therapeutic  agent,  and 
together these actions cannot be duplicated by existing therapeutics. 
The therapeutic indication for exenatide is: 
• 
Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with metformin, and/or sulphonylureas in 
patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these oral 
therapies. 
The proposed dosing recommendation is as follows:  
• 
least 1 month.  The dose of exenatide can then be increased to 10 µg BID 
Exenatide  therapy  should  be  initiated  at  5 µg  per  dose  administered  twice  daily  (BID)  for  at 
. 
Exenatide solution for injection is a clear parenteral solution intended for subcutaneous (SC) injection.  
The  product  is  supplied  in  two  multiple-dose  cartridge  presentations  (1.2  ml  and  2.4  ml)  containing 
sterile  preserved  solutions  with  the  same  concentration,  which  are  assembled  into  disposable  pen-
injector devices.  
Each  pen  contains  60  doses  allowing  one  month  treatment  since  the  product  has  to  be  administered 
twice a day subcutaneously. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
BYETTA  solution  for  injection  is  a  parenteral  drug  product  for  subcutaneous  administration.  The 
formulation contains 250 µg/ml exenatide as the active substance. 
1/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  other  ingredients  include  water  for  injections,  acetic  acid  and  sodium  acetate,  metacresol  and 
mannitol. 
The  product  is  supplied  in  two  multiple-dose  cartridge  presentations  (1.2  ml  and  2.4  ml)  containing 
sterile  preserved  solutions  with  the  same  concentration,  which  are  assembled  into  disposable  pen-
injector devices.  
The 5µg pen (1.2 ml) delivers 5 µg of exenatide per dose and the 10µg pen (2.4 ml) delivers 10 µg. 
Each pen contains 60 doses allowing one month treatment before disposal since the product has to be 
administered twice a day subcutaneously. 
Active Substance 
Exenatide is a chemically synthesized peptide:  
•  Manufacture 
Exenatide  is  synthesised  by  two  manufacturers  using  9-fluorenyl-methoxycarbonyl  (Fmoc)  solid-
phase  peptide  chemistry.  The  synthesis  using  protected  L-amino  acids  has  been  stereochemically 
controlled. 
Satisfactory  specifications  and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  raw  materials,  starting 
materials, solvents and reagents used in the preparation of exenatide. Adequate process flow diagrams 
and overviews of the manufacturing processes were provided. 
After synthesis, the resin-bound peptide is cleaved from the resin and the crude peptide undergoes a 
series of processing steps, including purification (by reversed-phase chromatography), and isolation to 
produce exenatide drug substance. 
Exenatide is  freely soluble in water  and in various solvents. Exenatide is hygroscopic and has to be 
protected  from  humidity  during  storage.  Process-related  impurities  associated  with  exenatide  from 
each manufacturer and potential degradation products generated from exenatide have been extensively 
discussed.  
The  structure  of  exenatide  is  confirmed  by  chemical  and  spectroscopic  data  supporting  the 
composition, the primary sequence, the secondary and higher order structure. 
Techniques  used 
involve  amino  acid  analysis,  mass  spectrometry,  High-Pressure  Liquid 
Chromatography  (HPLC),  proteolytic  mapping,  and  peptide  sequencing.,circular  dichroism,  Nuclear 
Magnetic Resonance (NMR), analytical ultracentrifugation, and light scattering studies.  
Results of the testing have shown that chemical, physical and biological properties of exenatide 
produced by the two manufacturers are comparable. The impurity profiles of exenatide differ slightly 
2/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for both suppliers however this should have no impact on the risk/benefit balance. For the future, the 
impurity profiles will be monitored. 
•  Specification 
Appropriate  specifications  for  exenatide  have  been  set  including  parameters  such  as  appearance, 
identification, assay, product-related impurities, residual solvents, acetate content, and microbial limit.   
Impurity  limits  have  been  adequately  justified  by  batch  analysis,  stability  studies,  toxicological  and 
clinical studies. 
Analytical Methods to control the active substance including methods such as Strong Cation-exchange 
chromatography  (SCX-HPLC),  Amino  Acid  Analysis,  Tryptic  Peptide  Map,  Mass  Spectrometry, 
Assay,  Reversed-Phase  Chromatography  (RP-HPLC),  Ion  Chromatography  (for  acetate),  and  Gas 
Chromatography (for residual solvents) have been suitably described and validated according to ICH 
guidelines. Methods from both manufacturers are considered equivalent. 
Batch analyses for six validation lots and seven commercial lots of exenatide manufactured at the two 
manufacturing sites have been provided. Results comply with the specification and are consistent with 
batch results used in the toxicological and clinical studies. 
•  Stability 
Results of pilot-scale batches stored in the commercial packaging under ICH conditions (-20°C up to 
36 months, 5ºC for 12 months, and 25°C/60% RH 6 months) have been provided. Additional results 
have been presented on production batches and confirm results with primary batches. 
Photostability studies have been carried out on 3 batches in accordance with ICH guideline. Exenatide 
is light-sensitive and therefore a protective packaging is justified. 
Results showed that properly packaged exenatide is stable under the tested conditions. No significant 
degradation could be observed apart from a slight increase in total impurities at 25°C. 
Based on the stability data, a re-test period of 2 years can be granted providing that exenatide is kept -
≤ -15 °C, protected from light and packaged under low humidity. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Adequate  formulation  studies  have  been  conducted  to  develop  a  parenteral  drug  product  for 
subcutaneous  administration.  Important  formulation  parameters  such  as  solution  pH,  buffer  species, 
buffer  concentration,  tonicity-modifying  agent,  and  preservative  have  been  studied  and  adjusted. 
Compendial excipients have been selected and their quantities are usual for solutions for injections and 
can  be  found  in  already  marketed  drug  products.  Compatibility  between  excipients  and  the  active 
substance has been demonstrated by formulation and stability studies.  
The formulation consists of 250 µg/ml exenatide in pH 4.5 acetate buffer. It contains metacresol 
as an antimicrobial preservative and mannitol as a tonicity modifying agent.  
Adequate  information  on  physicochemical  and  biological  properties  which  are  key  points  for 
the manufacturing process such as hygroscopicity, solubility, and solid-state properties has been 
provided. 
Extensive and sufficient information on the manufacturing process development has been provided in 
particular  regarding  the  standard  aseptic  processing techniques,  the  excipients,  the  container  and  the 
sterilizing filtration.  
Since  the  product  is  a  sterile  product  for  multiple  dosing,  a  preservative  is  required.  The  amount  of 
preservative has been justified.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the manufacturing process used by the active substance manufacturers involves recombinant 
DNA technology, fermentation, or extraction of biological matrices. 
Exenatide is obtained by solid phase peptide chemistry from chemically protected amino acids which 
are  the  only  potential  sources  of  transmittable  spongiform  encephalitis  (TSE).  However,  the  amino 
3/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acid derivatives are sourced from non-human/non-ruminant animal materials. Therefore no TSE risk 
can be anticipated. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard process and can be summarized in 3 steps : 
- compounding with dissolution of all components 
- sterile filtration 
-  aseptic  filling  into  pre-sterilised  glass  cartridges.  Sterile  filtration  has  been  chosen  since 
exenatide is heat sensitive. 
The manufacturing process has been fully described. 
Adequate in-process controls have been set during the manufacturing process. 
All the excipients are described in Ph.Eur and USP and a certificate of analysis in compliance with the 
specification is presented for each excipient. 
None of the excipients is of human or animal origin. Therefore no TSE issue is expected. 
•  Product Specification 
Appropriate specifications have been set for the finished product and include tests such as appearance 
tests,  identification  (HPLC  and  mass  spectrometry),  assay  (SE-HPLC),  potency,  impurities  (SCX-
HPLC),  oligomer  (SE-HPLC),  subvisible  particles,  pH  control,  osmolality,  preservative  content 
(HPLC),  bacterial  endotoxins,  and  sterility.  Proposed  release  specifications  for  the  finished  product 
include acceptable specification for the cartridges and for the pen-injector.  
Analytical  methods  are  appropriate  and  have  been  sufficiently  described.  Summaries  of  validations 
have been provided for non-compendial analytical procedures. 
Batch  analysis  data  are  provided  for  six  validation  lots  and  three  commercial  lots  of  drug  product 
using exenatide obtained from both manufacturers.  
All results comply with the set specifications.  
Additional results of production scale batches manufactured at BPS will be submitted when available. 
Container Closure System  
Exenatide solution for injection is a kept in a Type I clear glass cartridge of 1.5 or 2.7 ml, sealed with 
a rubber disc with an aluminum over-seal  and a rubber plunger.  
The  two  cartridge  presentations  are  assembled  into  pen-injectors  designed  to  deliver  60  doses.  The 
pen-injectors deliver 5 µg (20 µl) or 10 µg (40 µl) doses of exenatide. 
Specifications have been provided.  Materials used comply with the Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Compatibility  of  the  container  closure  system  with  exenatide  solution  for  injection  has  been 
demonstrated by stability studies. 
The  medical  device,  consisting  of  pre-filled,  disposable  pen-injector  has  been  adequately  described. 
Information  on  the  pen-injector  and  its  ability  with  regard  to  dose  accuracy  has  been  provided.  The 
cartridge  assembled  in  the  pen-injector  is  protected  for  light  since  exenatide  is  sensitive  to  light-
exposure. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Primary  stability  studies  were  carried  out  with  a  total  of  11  batches  (pilot-scale  and  commercial 
batches)  under  the  following  conditions:  up  to  30  months  at  5°C/ambient  RH,  12  months  at 
15°C/75%RH, 6 months at 25°C/60%RH, and photostability. 
Parameters  tested  include  physical  appearance,  assay,  potency,  product-related  impurities,  pH, 
metacresol,  subvisible  particles,  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxins,  and  anti-microbial  preservative 
effectiveness.  
The  product  remained  rather  stable  and  the  only  trend  observed  was  an  increase  in  product-related 
impurities. 
Photostability  studies  performed,  in  line  with  ICH  Q1B  Guideline,  indicate  that  the  drug  product 
should be protected from light exposure. 
In-use stability studies reflecting the condition of use have been performed. Results remained within 
the proposed specifications and support the in-use period of 30 days when it is stored at 5°C protected 
from light and in-use storage for 7 days at room temperature. 
4/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability  data  support  the  proposed  shelf-life  (before  opening  and  in-use)  and  storage  conditions  as 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Generally  satisfactory  documentation  has  been  provided.  The  active  substance  is  well-characterised 
and  the  retained  specification  including  the  impurities  level  are  acceptable  taking  into  consideration 
the type of active substance (peptide) and the various guidelines.  
Results showed that exenatide is stable and stability data support the proposed re-test period providing 
that exenatide is kept -≤ -15 °C, protected from light and packaged under low humidity. 
Regarding the finished product, the manufacturing process is adequately described and controlled. It 
should ensure a consistent quality for the product. Appropriate specification has been selected for this 
parenteral solution. 
Stability  studies  under  ICH  conditions  have  demonstrated  the  good  stability of  the  finished  product. 
Stability  data  support  the  proposed  shelf-life  (before  opening  and  in-use)  and  storage  conditions  as 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were some outstanding quality issues with no impact on the 
benefit/risk. The applicant undertook to provide with the necessary information as follow-up measures 
within  an  agreed  timeframe  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this 
additional information. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pivotal toxicology and toxicokinetic studies were performed in accordance with GLP regulations. 
Cardiovascular safety pharmacology studies were GLP compliant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
Exenatide and GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide 1) bind and stimulate GLP receptors equipotently in both 
human- and rat-based receptor systems. Exenatide showed no binding to a number of other members 
of the glucagon-secretin G protein-coupled receptor super family, including the receptors for VIP and 
secretin. Distribution of exenatide binding sites within mouse tissue overlaps with that observed with 
GLP, with predominant binding in the lateral septum and basal forebrain, as well as within 
circumventricular organs including the area postrema. CNS mediated effects are likely to be of 
importance for the overall pharmacology of exenatide, through effects on food intake and gastric 
emptying, and are believed to be mediated through GLP-1 receptors. Significant binding was also 
observed in the pancreas and the outer cortex of the mouse kidney. 
In vitro studies demonstrated that exenatide enhances insulin production in presence of increased 
glucose concentration, with no or minimal effect at basal glucose levels. Exenatide was also shown to 
suppress glucagon release induced by arginine. Literature studies demonstrating a GLP-1 effect on 
peripheral glucose utilization via receptors in various tissues such as skeletal muscle, liver and adipose 
tissue could not be reproduced. Several studies have demonstrated the absence of GLP-1 receptor 
mRNA in these tissues, hence the literature findings on effects in these tissues are considered 
controversial. 
In vivo studies 
Exenatide has been studied extensively in animal models to examine its acute and chronic effects on 
blood glucose control. In nondiabetic mice and rabbits, exenatide reduced plasma glucose with a 
maximum effect of about 30-35%. Nondiabetic rats showed an acute, paradoxical, hyperglycaemic 
and hyperlactemic response not demonstrated in other species. These effects were not observed in 
adrenalectomized rats. In diabetic mice and rats, exenatide markedly improved glucose control. Both 
5/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acute effects (reduction in fasting glucose associated with acute increases in insulin secretion) and 
chronic effects (decrease in plasma HbA1c and increased insulin sensitivity) were demonstrated. 
The following activities of exenatide were demonstrated in the animal models: 
Increased insulin secretion 
• 
•  Suppressed basal and postprandial glucagon secretion 
•  Slowed gastric emptying 
•  Reduced food intake and body weight 
• 
Improved insulin sensitivity 
•  Stimulation of islet neogenesis 
These effects may all contribute to the pharmacological activity of exenatide in the targeted patient 
population.  
Since hypoglycaemia is a common safety problem during treatment of diabetes, some aspects of the 
exenatide pharmacology deserve further attention. The applicant has discussed the potential negative 
consequences of reduced glucagon secretion and slowed gastric emptying under hypoglycaemic 
conditions. Glucagon-stimulated release of glucose from the liver is an important part of the 
counterregulatory response to hypoglycaemia, and self-administration of oral carbohydrate is an 
important means to raise plasma glucose for patients experiencing hypoglycaemia. It was 
demonstrated that the slowing of gastric emptying was abrogated in animals with low blood glucose. It 
was not convincingly demonstrated that the effect on glucagon secretion was similarly abrogated by 
low glucose. However, clinical studies have shown that the glucagon response is not impeded by 
exenatide in hypoglycaemic situations. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Several reports have indicated that GLP-1 can significantly reduce pancreatic exocrine secretion, 
inhibit gastric emptying and gastric acid secretion. However, exenatide showed no effect on 
cholecystokin (CCK-8)-stimulated secretion of amylase and lipase in rat, nor did single s.c. doses of 
exenatide had a significant effect on pentagastrin-stimulated gastric acid secretion in cannulated rats. 
Acute administration of exenatide did not affect basal plasma levels of follicle stimulating hormone, 
luteinising hormone, testosterone, or thyroid hormones T3 and T4 in nondiabetic rats. Exenatide has 
been shown to reduce plasma levels of thyroid stimulating hormone in rats. The paradoxical increase 
in plasma levels in response to exenatide observed in nondiabetic rats (but not in other species) 
appears to be mediated by catecholamines. Exenatide-related effects on cortisol serum concentration 
have been evaluated as part of the clinical program. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
In a CNS safety pharmacology study in mice, grip strength and limb tone were transiently slightly 
reduced, and there was a dose-dependent decrease in spontaneous motor activity. A reduction in 
general activity was also observed in a cardiovascular safety pharmacology in monkeys, but the effect 
was not dose-related. The CNS effects which occurred at doses and Cmax levels substantially higher 
than in the clinic, are likely to be due to activity on GLP-1 receptors within the CNS. 
A single iv dose of exenatide produced a dose-dependent increase in mean arterial blood pressure and 
heart rate in rats. No hypertensive effects were observed in mice or in monkeys. No effects on ECG, 
arterial pressure or heart rate were observed in monkeys. 
Exenatide produced an acute, profound diuresis and natriuresis in rats following iv dosing. Similar but 
less potent effects were observed in mice. There was no evidence of a renal pathology in any of the 
repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice, rats or monkeys. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific non-clinical pharmacology studies to evaluate drug interactions have been performed, 
which was found to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
6/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
A series of non-clinical studies were conducted in mice, rats, female rabbits and monkeys to determine 
the PK parameters for exenatide. There were no sex differences for mice, rats and monkeys. In 
general, for sc administration, Cmax and AUC increased dose-linearly. Terminal half-life varied from 
18 minutes in mice up to 114 minutes in rats. 
Whole-animal distribution studies were not done, since exenatide is composed of natural amino acids. 
Exenatide was shown to be transported across the placenta only to a low degree with a maximal foetal 
to maternal ratio of 0.035 in mice and rabbits. 
As expected for a peptide, the kidney is the main organ for clearance of exenatide. No significant 
fragments of exenatide could be identified in vivo. Analysis of post-administration urine samples from 
rats failed to reveal significant concentrations of intact exenatide suggesting that proteolytic 
degradation may occur in the renal tubule after filtration. Exenatide, unlike GLP-1, has been shown in 
in-vitro studies not to be a substrate for dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV), being thought to be the 
cause for the longer plasma half-life of exenatide compared to GLP-1.  
Clearance of exenatide was not changed in animals with induced liver injury. Clearance of exenatide 
was significantly decreased in a renal-ligation model in rats. 
The transport to milk has not been adequately studied. Exenatide should therefore not be used during 
lactation, as mentioned in the SPC, section 4.6. 
No specific non-clinical pharmacokinetic studies to evaluate drug interactions have been conducted. 
Because exenatide slows gastric emptying, it is likely to alter the rate of intestinal absorption of 
concomitant oral drugs, when administered within a certain timeframe relative to an exenatide dose. 
Such effects have been studied as part of the clinical program. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity of exenatide was assessed in mice (iv route), rats (sc route) and monkeys (sc 
route). No lethality or serious toxicity was observed.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed in mice (28-182 days), rats (14-91 days), and monkeys 
(5-273 days). Since exenatide was shown to produce paradoxical pharmacological effects in non-
diabetic rats (increased blood glucose levels), the mouse was selected for pivotal chronic toxicity 
testing as well as for reproductive and developmental toxicity studies. No important toxicity was 
observed in the repeat-dose toxicity studies. Exposure at NOAEL levels were generally >100-fold 
higher than the human systemic exposure.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Exenatide was negative for genotoxicity in a standard package of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity 
assays in bacteria, mammalian cells, and rodents. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
There was no evidence for carcinogenicity in the mouse. At the highest dose in female rats (250 
μg/kg/day, 130 times human exposure), an increased incidence of benign thyroid C-cell adenomas was 
observed. The numerical increase in tumours was not statistically significant when adjusting for 
survival. There was no increased incidence in C-cell carcinomas. The exposure margin at the NOEL 
(70 μg/kg) was 22. The findings were found to not raise concerns for human safety. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Exenatide showed no effect on fertility and early embryonic development in mice. In the embryo-
foetal toxicity studies in mice and rabbits, maternal food consumption and body weights were reduced. 
In both species, developmental toxicity occurred in conjunction with maternal toxicity. Pregnant 
7/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rabbits exhibited a particularly high sensitivity to the anorexogenic activity of exenatide. In mice, 
foetal growth was slowed, and there were skeletal variations associated with slowed foetal growth, 
including changes in number of rib pairs or vertebral ossification sites and wavy ribs. The NOEL for 
developmental toxicity in mice was 6 μg/kg/day (3 times the human exposure). In rabbits, 
developmental toxicity was manifested as morphologic markers of foetal growth retardation (umbilical 
hernias and skeletal variations). In a second rabbit study, additional groups were pair-fed (fed the same 
average daily amount of food) to match the three exenatide-dosed groups. In the pair-fed animals, 
skeletal variations occurred at similar incidences in exenatide and pair-fed animals. Umbilical hernias 
were not observed in pair-fed animals. However, the pair-fed animals did not demonstrate maternal 
toxicity to the same extent as exenatide-dosed animals. In exenatide-treated animals but not in pair-fed 
animals, water consumption and body weights were decreased. The NOEL for developmental toxicity 
in rabbits was 2 μg/kg/day (12 times human exposure).  
In the perinatal and postnatal developmental toxicity study in mice, developmental effects occurred in 
the F1 offspring in conjunction with maternal toxicity. Developmental toxicity was indicated by 
increased perinatal and neonatal mortality in the F1 offspring of the high-dose group (760 μg/kg/day), 
and by reduced growth in the F1 offspring of the mid-dose group (68 μg/kg/day). The NOEL for 
developmental toxicity was 6 μg/kg/day (3 times human exposure). 
It thus has been concluded, that exenatide is not considered teratogenic.The control of blood glucose is 
of great importance during pregnancy and this is best achieved by insulin treatment. Exenatide should 
therefore not be used during pregnancy, which is reflected in the SPC section 4.6. 
•  Local Tolerance 
Local tolerability of exenatide was evaluated as clinical observations and morphologic pathology of 
injection sites in mice, rats and monkeys. Microscopic changes of minimal to moderate severity were 
common to both vehicle and exenatide-treated animals. 
•  Studies on Antigenicity 
Exenatide was weakly antigenic or non-antigenic in rodents and weakly antigenic in monkeys. The 
formation of anti-exenatide antibodies in monkeys was not dose-dependent. The antibodies were not 
neutralizing, but they did result in altered pharmacokinetics. There were no apparent adverse effects of 
anti-exenatide antibody formation. 
Immunotoxicity 
• 
Exenatide-related  effects  on  the  immune  system  were  evaluated  as  part  of  the  9-months  repeat-dose 
toxicity  study  in  monkeys,  where  no  effect  on  the  antibody  response  to  keyhole  limpet  hemocyanin 
(KLH) was seen. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No risk to the environment from the use of exenatide is expected. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The application was submitted as a complete dossier for a new chemical entity. Exenatide is the first 
of a class of agents known as incretin mimetics. 
The proposed therapeutic indication for exenatide was:  
Treatment of type 2 diabetes in combination with metformin, a sulphonylurea, or a combination of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea.  
The approved indication is: 
8/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  in  combination  with  metformin,  and/or  sulphonylureas  in 
patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these oral 
therapies. 
The posology proposed and approved was for two strengths: 5 μg exenatide per dose administered 
twice daily (BID) for at least one month in order to improve tolerability. 10 μg BID subsequently to 
further improve glycaemic control. 
As of the data cut off date (15 June 2005) for the submission, the exenatide clinical development 
programme consisted of 31 completed studies. Approximately two-thirds of these studies were 
designed for the primary purpose of assessing clinical pharmacology. The programme also included 3 
short-term (28-day exposure) and 5 long-term (26-week to 52-week exposure) controlled studies as 
well as 3 uncontrolled studies. The 5 long-term controlled studies consisted of 2 active-comparator 
trials and 3 placebo-controlled trials. Additional safety data were provided during the review Two 
clinical studies will be conducted as post marketing commitments. 
The sponsor sought scientific advice from the CHMP in 2003 and in 2004 regarding the clinical 
development of exenatide as adjunctive therapy to sulphonylurea, metformin, or combination therapy. 
The questions focused mostly on the appropriateness of non-inferiority margins, treatment durations, 
appropriateness of comparators, and pre-study OAD doses required in the design of long-term active-
comparator controlled studies and on clinical pharmacology. 
GCP 
The applicant claimed that all clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP. The applicant 
had provided a statement declaring that clinical trials were conducted according to GCP, and in 
accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and that clinical trials carried out outside EU met ethical 
requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC. It was noted that one investigational site involving 68 subjects 
was excluded from the primary results due to GCP violations.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of exenatide has been evaluated in 21 clinical pharmacology studies mainly in 
type 2 diabetic patients. Pharmacokinetic information was also collected in several clinical efficacy 
studies and evaluated using population pharmacokinetics. Exenatide plasma concentrations were 
determined using an immunoenzymetric assay (IEMA). Data to support stability have been provided. 
It has been shown that the presence of antibodies interferes with the analysis of exenatide at least at 
high antibody titres. PK data in patients with high antibody titre should be interpreted with caution. 
•  Absorption 
Following sc administration, exenatide is rapidly absorbed reaching peak concentrations in 
approximately 2 h. Upon sc administration of 10 µg exenatide, Cmax is approximately 250 pg/ml and 
AUC 1200 pg.h/ml. Relative bioavailability of exenatide in the arm or thigh, as compared to the 
abdomen, was 93% and 97%, respectively. Therefore, exenatide can be administered either in the 
abdomen, arm or thigh, which is reflected in the SPC. The mean absolute bioavailability was estimated 
to >100%, likely caused by an underestimation of the AUC after iv. administration. The final 
formulation has been used in the phase3 studies. Cross-study comparison revealed no major 
differences between formulations used in early studies and the final formulation.  
•  Distribution 
The mean apparent volume of distribution Vz/F for exenatide is 28 l. The potential for exenatide to 
cross the placental barrier is considered low.  
•  Metabolism and Excretion  
Exenatide has a mean apparent clearance (CL/F) of 9.1 L/h and has a mean terminal half-life of 2.4 h. 
Exenatide is primarily renally cleared (by filtration and subsequent reabsorption and degradation in the 
renal tubules). Exenatide displays dose-proportional and time independent pharmacokinetics.  
9/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Variability  
In a combined meta-analysis of six phase 1 and 2 studies, the intrasubject variability in Cmax and AUC  
were 28% and 22% respectively. Inter-individual variability for the fixed 5 or 10 µg dose ranged from 
approximately 20 to 60% for AUC and 30-60% for Cmax, which is considered moderate to high. The 
relatively high variability is likely to be caused by the weight-dependent pharmacokinetics. When 
exenatide exposure was dose-weight normalised across studies, the inter-individual variability was 
27% for AUC and 31% for Cmax. 
Exenatide pharmacokinetics is similar in healthy volunteers and subjects with type 2 diabetes.  
Antibody status Based on the available data it is not possible to evaluate if or how exenatide PK is 
influenced by formation of antibodies or differences in antibody titre. 
•  Special populations 
Renal impairment. A combined analysis of phase 1-2 data showed a reduced exenatide clearance with 
reduced renal function, as expected for a renally eliminated drug. In mild renal impairment CL/F was 
decreased by 13%, in moderate renal impairment by 36% and in ESRD by 84%. Simulations 
demonstrated that the exposure in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment after administration 
of 5 µ g bid would be within a well tolerated range, supporting that no dosage adjustment is needed in 
these subjects. Given the large decrease in CL/F in ESRD, use is not recommended in patients with 
severe renal impairment or ESRD. A warning is included in section 4.4 of the SPC. In moderate renal 
impairment, AUC is expected to increase on average by 50%. A cautious titration of the dose from 5 
to 10 µg is therefore advised in the SPC.  
Hepatic impairment. The influence of reduced hepatic function on exenatide pharmacokinetics has not 
been evaluated. This is acceptable given that exenatide is eliminated renally.  
Weight. Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, mean clearance and volume of distribution 
increased with body weight. Clearance increased approximately 2-fold and apparent volume of 
distribution about 4.8-fold as body weight increased from 50 kg to 160 kg. Additionally, in a meta-
analysis of pooled data from Phase 1 and 2 studies, the influence of obesity (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2 was 
evaluated. No statistically significant difference was observed in Vz/F in patients with BMI<30 kg/m2 
and patients with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2. Although clearance was 22% higher (statistically significant) in 
patients with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2, this increase is considered not clinically relevant. 
Age, gender and race No specific studies have been conducted evaluating the effect of age, gender or 
race on the pharmacokinetics of exenatide. The influence of these (and other) demographic factors was 
evaluated in the population pharmacokinetic analysis. The population analysis suggests that absorption 
rate is more rapid in females than in males resulting in higher Cmax. There is no difference in total 
exposure. This is unlikely to be of clinical relevance and does not warrant any precautions. Age (mean 
age 54 years, range 22-73 years) and race were not identified as covariates with significant influence 
on exenatide pharmacokinetics. The number of subjects >65 years was limited and there were no 
subjects >75 years, which is mentioned in the SPC in section 5.2. A cross-study comparison suggested 
no difference in exposure between Japanese and non-Japanese subjects. Additional studies in Asian 
subjects are ongoing.   
Exenatide has not been investigated in adolescents and children. A study in adolescents is ongoing, 
results from which will be provided as a follow-up measure. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No in vitro data with regard to interactions were submitted. In vivo interaction studies suggest that 
exenatide has no effect on CYP2C9 or CYP3A4. The risk for inhibition of other CYP isoenzymes is 
considered to be low. Available pre-clinical data do not suggest any significant risk for induction, 
however an effect in humans cannot be completely excluded. Data from an ongoing interaction study 
with oral contraceptives (study H8O-EW-GWBC) might provide some information on the potential for 
induction. This study will be provided as a follow-up measure. 
Exenatide delays gastric emptying, and can therefore delay the absorption, decrease the absorption rate 
and to some extent decrease the extent of absorption of concomitantly administered drugs. A 
10/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
scintigraphy study in type 2 diabetes patients showed that exenatide displays a concentration 
dependent delay in gastric emptying. Data are variable, but suggest a maximum delay of 3 h and an 
EC50 (AUC resulting in a delay of 1.5 h) of about 418 pg·h/ml. At a dose of 10 µg bid, a large part of 
the patients will have an exposure approaching the flat part of the concentration effect curve and 
consequently a delay in gastric emptying of 2-3 h. The effect on gastric emptying was also evaluated 
using paracetamol as a marker substrate.  The effect on paracetamol was most marked when 
paracetamol was administered 1-2 h after exenatide; Cmax was decreased by 56%, tmax increased by 4 h 
and AUC decreased by 23%. The effect was decreasing at 4 h after exenatide dosing (41% decrease in 
Cmax and 1 h delay in tmax). No effect was observed when paracetamol was administered one h before 
exenatide. 
The effect on digoxin, warfarin, lisinopril and lovastatin administered about 30 min after exenatide 
was evaluated. For digoxin, warfarin and lisinopril there was a delay in tmax of about 2 h and usually a 
slight decrease in Cmax but no significant effect on AUC. For lovastatin, tmax was increased 4 h, and 
AUC and Cmax decreased by 40 and 28% respectively.  Retrospective analysis of statin users from the 
Phase 3 studies showed no clinically relevant change in lipid parameters or dosage between exenatide 
or placebo arms. However, as a precaution it is mentioned in the SPC section 4.5 that lovastatin 
exposure may be lowered and that one should be aware of possible changes in LDL-C or total 
cholesterol and that lipid profiles should be monitored regularly. 
The effect on Cmax and tmax may be significant for drugs taken 1-2 h after exenatide and could also 
result in a clinically relevant reduction in AUC for drugs with narrow therapeutic index. A cautionary 
statement for medicinal products of either a narrow therapeutic ratio or medicinal products that require 
careful clinical monitoring is included in the SPC. For these drugs a reduction of Cmax (and a potential 
small reduction in AUC) could be important and consequently it may be important to take these drugs 
in a standardised way in relation to BYETTA, so that the potential effect of BYETTA on the 
coadministered drug is kept constant. If such medicinal products are to be administered with food, 
patients should be advised to, if possible, take them with a meal when BYETTA is not administered. 
Additional concern is the potential effect of exenatide on the absorption of gastroresistant 
formulations. The SPC, section 4.5, advises therefore that gastroresistant formulations containing 
substances sensitive for degradation in the stomach, such as proton pump inhibitors, should be taken at 
least 1 h before or more than 4 h after BYETTA injections.   
Overall, exenatide pharmacokinetics has been investigated to a fair extent. Results from ongoing PK 
studies (two in Japanese and Chinese subjects, respectively, one interaction study with oral 
contraceptives, and one PK/PD study in adolescents) will be submitted as follow up measures. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
See also the preclinical section of this document.  
Incretin hormones, such as gastric inhibitory polypeptide and glucagon like peptide 1(GLP-1), are 
released from the gut after food intake and are reportedly responsible for 50% to 70% of postprandial 
insulin release. GLP-1 administration has been shown to reduce food-intake in humans and inhibit 
gastric emptying. It is rapidly degraded by the protease dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV) leading to an 
extremely short half-life (1 to 2 minutes). Exenatide, a 39-amino-acid peptide amide, exhibits partial 
amino acid sequence overlap (53%) with that of GLP-1 and mimics some glucoregulatory effects of 
GLP-1. In diabetic mice, exenatide is approximately 3 orders of magnitude more potent than GLP-1 in 
reducing plasma glucose concentrations.  
The proposed glucose lowering mechanisms of exenatide include:  
•  beta-cell effects 
-enhancement of glucose-dependent insulin secretion 
-restoration of first-phase insulin secretion 
-other beta-cell effects, including enhanced insulin synthesis and increased beta-cell mass 
•  glucose-dependent suppression of glucagon secretion 
• 
• 
slowing of gastric emptying, resulting in slowed absorption of meal-derived glucose. 
reduction of food intake 
11/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beta-cell effects 
Studies in subjects with type 2 diabetes (n=12) and healthy volunteers (n=11) showed that exenatide 
promoted insulin secretion under hyper-and euglycaemic conditions.  This action was diminished or 
absent under hypoglycaemic conditions. In one study the first-phase insulin response was restored in 
13 diabetic subjects. This may be an indication of improved beta-cell function. 
Suppression of glucagon secretion 
In studies of subjects with type 2 diabetes (n=20) and healthy volunteers (n=11) exenatide suppressed 
glucagon secretion after a meal compared to placebo. The glucagon response to hypoglycaemia was 
preserved during exenatide treatment. 
Slowing of gastric emptying 
Several studies of subjects with type 2 diabetes and healthy volunteers have shown that exenatide has 
dose-dependent gastric emptying effects. These effects manifested most prominently 1 to 2 h after 
administration of exenatide with a declining trend by 4 h and leads to a regulation of the inflow of 
nutrients into the circulation, which may lead to reduced postprandial glucose concentrations. 
Food intake effects 
Reductions in food intake following exenatide administration have previously been reported in a study 
of healthy volunteers. This may theoretically affect glucose concentrations. 
The most plausible pharmacodynamic mechanism behind the reduction in weight is reductions in food 
intake following exenatide administration that have been documented in preclinical studies.  To some 
extent nausea contributed to the decrease in body weight seen during treatment with exenatide, but is 
clearly not the sole explanation since weight reduction was seen also in patients without nausea. 
PK/PD 
PK/PD analyses of postprandial glucose exposure as the pharmacodynamic response variable was used 
to support the switch from weight-based dosing to fixed dosing before phase 3, and to support that the 
selected doses, 5 and 10 µg are appropriate both in antibody negative and positive patients. The 
PK/PD analysis and simulations support the use of a fixed dose regimen. Although weight-based 
dosing could result in more patients obtaining exenatide exposure within the target range, this seems to 
have limited impact on reduction of glucose. Hence, the decision to select a fixed dose of 10 µg for the 
phase 3 clinical studies seems appropriate.  
A PK/PD analysis of Phase 3 data predicted a larger maximum mean effect in antibody negative 
subjects than in antibody positive subjects (36% and 28%, respectively). The results suggest that in 
patients without antibodies the proposed doses will result in exposure close to or at the top of the 
concentration effect curve, i.e. close to maximum efficacy. With some uncertainty this can probably be 
extrapolated to patients with low antibody titre. The data also suggest that a lower efficacy might be 
expected in high-titre anti-body positive patients. It should be noted that the variability between 
patients is large in relation to the quite small estimated differences in maximum effect between 
antibody positive and negative patients, limiting the predictability in the individual patient. Given 
limited and inadequate PK data in patients with high antibody titre, no conclusions can be made 
regarding appropriateness of the doses 5 and 10 µg in high-titer antibody positive patients. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical efficacy studies of exenatide consisted of: 
●Three Phase 2, short-term placebo-controlled studies designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
exenatide treatment. (Study 107, 116, 120).  
●Three Phase 3, long-term placebo-controlled studies designed to determine the magnitude of 
response to adding exenatide (5 µg or 10 µg BID) to concomitant OAD therapy (Metformin [Met], a 
sulfonylurea [SU], or Met + SU). After completion of the placebo controlled phase these studies 
continued into 3 long-term uncontrolled extension studies designed to demonstrate the durability of 
the efficacy of exenatide treatment. (Study 112, 113, 115).  
●Two Phase 3, long-term active-comparator controlled studies designed to establish the non-
inferiority of exenatide treatment (10 µg BID) to insulin treatment (insulin glargine, QD or biphasic 
insulin aspart, BID), (Study H80-MC-GWAA, H80-MC-GWAD).  
12/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose response studies 
The studies showed little incremental benefit in postprandial glucose reduction at doses greater than 
0.1µg/kg. Doses exceeding 0.2 µg/kg resulted in increased incidence of gastrointestinal side effects. 
Simulations based on population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modelling based on data 
from 4 studies supported the transition from weight-normalised dosing to a fixed-dosing paradigm.  
One study demonstrated that a scheduled, gradual escalation to a target dose reduced the incidence of 
gastrointestinal side effects to some extent compared with direct administration of the final target 
dose.   
The clinical studies also contributed to the dose-finding (see below): Study 107 examined the effect of 
the addition of a third dose at bedtime. Study 116 examined the dose response at doses of 2.5 µg to 10 
µg BID for one month.  The Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies compared the efficacy of 5 µg and 10 
µg BID for 30 weeks. 
•  Main studies 
Short-term placebo-controlled studies 
Study 107 was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of exenatide in subjects failing to achieve 
adequate glucose control with Met and/or SU therapy. Subjects subcutaneously (sc) injected exenatide 
(0.08 μg/kg) or placebo for 28 days defined by one of four regimens: 1) exenatide BID before 
breakfast and dinner, 2) exenatide BID before breakfast and bedtime, 3) exenatide three times daily 
(TID) before breakfast, dinner, and bedtime, or 4) placebo TID before breakfast, dinner, and bedtime. 
Each BID regimen had an additional SC placebo injection at the third time point, dinner or bedtime, to 
maintain blinding. The primary efficacy measures in Study 107 were postprandial plasma glucose and 
serum fructosamine. Exenatide at the dose regimens tested led to clinically and statistically significant 
reductions in postprandial plasma glucose and fructosamine concentrations. The regimen (BID versus 
TID) did not appear to differentially impact clinical outcome, although the study was not designed to 
detect small differences in dose regimens. 
Study 116 was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of exenatide in subjects treated with diet 
modification and exercise, or Met. Subjects subcutaneously injected exenatide (2.5 µg, 5.0 µg, 7.5 µg, 
or 10.0 µg BID), or placebo for 28 days. The primary efficacy measure was change in HbA1c. Results 
showed a statistically significant, dose-dependent (2.5 μg to 7.5 μg exenatide) reduction in HbA1c.  
Study 120 was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of exenatide, compared with placebo, in 
subjects who had their OAD withdrawn at least 2 weeks prior to the triple-blind portion of the study;  
1) 10 μg, BID 2) 10 μg QD or 3) 20 μg QD, over 28 days.  The primary efficacy measure was change 
in HbA1c.  There was a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c in subjects treated with 10 μg BID 
exenatide compared to placebo.  The decrease in HbA1c in subjects treated with 10 and 20 μg QD 
exenatide when compared to placebo was not statistically significant. The dose 20μg QD was not well 
tolerable because of gastrointestinal side effects. 
In these studies 81 % (107), 88% (116), and 65% (120) of the subjects were using >50% of the 
maximally effective dose of OAD. Even though the percentage in study 120 was rather low, patients in 
the other two studies were representative of the target population. 
Long-term placebo-controlled studies 
The 3 long-term placebo-controlled Studies 112, 113, and 115 were randomised, triple-blind, 3-arm 
parallel group, multicentre studies designed to examine the efficacy and safety of exenatide 5 μg or 10 
μg injected SC, BID for 30 weeks in subjects with type 2 diabetes with BMI 27-45 kg/m2, treated with 
maximally effective doses of Met (Study 112), SU (Study 113), or Met + SU (Study 115).  Subjects in 
Studies 112 and 115 were required to be on a maximum effective regimen of Met at study entry 
(≥1500 mg daily dose). Maximally effective doses (MaxED) of SU were required at study entry in 
Studies 113 and 115, although the SU dose could be reduced in response to hypoglycemia.  A key 
aspect of Study 115 was to evaluate exenatide treatment and the use of a MaxED of SU, versus a 
minimally recommended dose (MinRD) of SU, on efficacy and the occurrence of hypoglycemia. 
13/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In all these studies the primary efficacy measure was the change in HbA1c from baseline to endpoint. 
Additional efficacy measures included the change in HbA1c from baseline to each intermediate visit; 
the proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c values ≤7.0%, change from baseline in fasting glucose 
concentrations, change in postprandial glucose concentrations in the test meal cohort, and change in 
body weight from baseline to each of the intermediate visits and to endpoint.  Pancreatic beta-cell 
functioning was assessed using the homeostasis model assessment for beta-cell function (HOMA-B) 
and the fasting proinsulin to insulin ratio. Baseline characteristics were similar in the different 
treatment groups and were representative for the target population. The withdrawal was larger in the 
placebo group compared to the exenatide groups (27% versus 20%). This was mainly because of loss 
of glucose control and withdrawal of consent. The incidence of adverse events was highest in the 
exenatide 10 µg BID group. 
Treatment with 5 μg or 10 μg exenatide demonstrated improved glucose control by mean reductions in 
HbA1cand fasting glucose conentrations. Subjects showed significant mean reductions in body weight 
(see table 1). HbA1c below 7% and 6.5% was reached by 38.5% and 20.7 % of the subjects 
respectively on the highest dose. A dose effect was seen where the proportion of subjects achieving 
either HbA1c ≤7% or ≤6.5% at endpoint was greater for the exenatide 10 μg group than the exenatide 5 
μg group. The effect was larger in study 112 and 113 compared to study 115 as evaluated by subjects 
achieving HbA1c ≤7%.There was a tendency to a diminishing effect towards the end of the studies in 
all treatment groups. There was a clinically and statistically significant reduction of postprandial 
glucose associated with exenatide when analysed in a subset of the total population. There were 
improvements in surrogate measures of beta cell function such as HOMA-B and the fasting proinsulin 
to insulin ratio, but these changes are difficult to translate into clinical terms. In the ITT populations 
there were no consistent, clinically relevant, changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C, 
LDL/HDL ratio, triglyceride or apolipoprotein B concentrations in the 5 µg or 10 µg exenatide-
treatment groups when compared with placebo. 
Placebo-controlled study in patients treated with thiazolidinediones with or without metformin 
In a placebo-controlled study of 16 weeks duration, exenatide (n=121) or placebo (n=112) was added 
to existing thiazolidinedione treatment, with or without metformin. Exenatide (5 µg BID for 4 weeks, 
followed by 10 µg BID) resulted in statistically significant reductions from baseline HbA1c compared 
to placebo (-0.8% versus +0.1%) and significant reductions in body weight (-1.5 versus -0.2 kg). 
Long-term active comparator-controlled studies 
Studies GWAA and GWAD were randomized, open-label, 2-arm parallel group, multicentre studies.  
These studies enrolled subjects with type 2 diabetes with BMI >25 and <40/45 kg/m2, who had 
inadequately controlled blood glucose using a combination therapy of SU+ Met.  Subjects continued 
taking OAD during the studies and added either insulin or exenatide (SC injected 10 µg BID).  
The primary objective of Studies GWAA and GWAD was to test the hypothesis that the glycaemic 
control achieved with exenatide 10 μg BID was non-inferior to that of insulin glargine (Study GWAA, 
Lantus®, Aventis Pharmaceuticals, QD bedtime) or biphasic insulin aspart (Study GWAD, NovoMix® 
30/NovoLog 30®, BID) with respect to the change in HbA1c after 26 (GWAA) or 52 (GWAD) weeks 
of treatment.  Non-inferiority was demonstrated if the upper limit of a two-sided 95% confidence 
interval for the difference in the change in HbA1c between exenatide and insulin was less than 0.4%.    
The primary efficacy measure in Studies GWAA and GWAD was the change in HbA1c from baseline 
to endpoint. Additional efficacy measures included the proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c ≤7%, 
body weight, fasting and postprandial glucose, 7-point self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) profiles 
and fasting serum lipids. In Study GWAD, improvement in beta-cell function was evaluated in the 
exenatide-treatment group using HOMA-B analysis. There were larger withdrawals in the exenatide-
groups compared to those treated with insulin. This was mainly caused by increased incidence of 
adverse events. The proportions of subjects who were lost to follow-up were relatively low throughout 
the studies. 
14/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no clinically significant differences in baseline data between the insulin and exenatide 
groups. Subjects in study GWAD had higher baseline HbA1c compared to subjects in study GWAA. 
In both long-term active-comparator controlled studies, the change in HbA1c in the exenatide treated 
group was statistically non-inferior to that of insulin glargine or biphasic insulin aspart. The mean 
insulin doses were 24.9 IU/day, (range 4-95 IU/day), at the end of study GWAA with insulin glargine 
and mean insulin dose 24.4 IU /day, (range 3-78 IU/day), at the end of study GWAD with biphasic 
insulin aspart.  In study GWAD the biphasic insulin aspart group had a reduction of HbA1c with 
0.86 %, and 8.5 % of the subjects reached HbA1c below 6.5 %. Based on the non-blinded nature of the 
insulin-comparator studies, a potential bias towards lower insulin doses cannot be fully excluded; 
however, the Applicant has tried to minimise this potential bias. 
At endpoint, subjects demonstrated improved glucose control by mean reductions in HbA1c and fasting 
glucose concentrations in both treatment groups (see table). Exenatide-treated subjects showed 
significant reductions in mean body weight. The proportions of evaluable subjects achieving HbA1c 
≤7% at endpoint were approximately equal for the exenatide and insulin glargine (almost 50 %) in 
study GWAA. In study GWAD 33% (exenatide) and 24 %(biphasic insulin aspart) achieved an HbA1c 
≤7%. One reason for the differing results between the comparator controlled studies could be the 
difference in baseline HbA1c.  
There was a tendency to a diminishing effect towards the end of the studies in all treatment groups. 
However, a further loss of effect was not seen among those who remained in the extension studies. 
Exenatide lowered postprandial glucose concentrations more than insulin, and was associated with a 
more flat blood glucose profile. Insulin was associated with lower premeal concentrations. In study 
GWAD there was an increase in HOMA-B, but as in the long-term placebo studies this is difficult to 
translate into clinical terms.  
Table 1: Summary of Efficacy Results for Exenatide Long-Term Placebo- and Active-
Comparator Controlled Studies (Intent-to-Treat Subjects) 
Study 
N 
Change From Baseline to Endpoint (LOCF)  
(Least Squares Mean ± Standard Error) 
Fasting Glucose 
(mmol/L) 
Body Weight  
(kg) 
Haemoglobin A1c 
(%) 
-2.86 ± 0.19 
-1.22 ± 0.19*** 
-1.64 ± 0.19 
-1.75 ± 0.19 
-1.10 ± 0.07 
-1.13 ± 0.07 
-0.86 ± 0.08 
-1.01 ± 0.08 
H8O-MC-GWAA (Metformin + Sulphonylurea) – 26 Weeks of Treatment 
[1] 
Insulin glargine 
Exenatide 10 µg 
[1] 
H8O-MC-GWAD (Metformin + Sulphonylurea) – 52 Weeks of Treatment 
[1] 
Biphasic insulin aspart 
[1] 
Exenatide 10 µg 
112 (Metformin) – 30 Weeks of Treatment 
Placebo 
Exenatide 5 µg 
Exenatide 10 µg 
113 (Sulphonylurea) – 30 Weeks of Treatment 
Placebo 
Exenatide 5 µg 
Exenatide 10 µg 
115 (Metformin + Sulphonylurea) – 30 Weeks of Treatment 
Placebo 
Exenatide 5 µg 
Exenatide 10 µg 
-0.00 ± 0.106 
-0.46 ± 0.112** 
-0.86 ± 0.110** 
0.06 ± 0.115 
-0.51 ± 0.111** 
-0.91 ± 0.110** 
247 
245 
241 
113 
110 
113 
123 
125 
129 
0.79 ± 0.26 
-0.29 ± 0.28* 
-0.56 ± 0.27* 
0.32 ± 0.29 
-0.29 ± 0.28 
-0.60 ± 0.28* 
-0.9 ± 0.21 
-1.6 ± 0.21* 
-1.6 ± 0.21* 
[1] The primary endpoint, change in haemoglobin A1c, is presented for the Per-Protocol Subjects (GWAA: 
exenatide N=228, insulin glargine N=228; GWAD: exenatide N=243, biphasic insulin aspart N=240); 
0.12 ± 0.079 
-0.66 ± 0.079** 
-0.88 ± 0.080** 
0.72 ± 0.20 
-0.60 ± 0.20* 
-0.68 ± 0.20* 
1.85 ± 0.23 
-1.92 ± 0.22*** 
2.92 ± 0.17 
-2.54 ± 0.17*** 
-0.2 ± 0.42 
-1.3 ± 0.45* 
-2.6 ± 0.44* 
-0.8 ± 0.32 
-1.1 ± 0.30 
-1.6 ± 0.30* 
15/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fasting glucose and body weight presented for the Intent-to-Treat Subjects (GWAA: exenatide N=282, 
insulin glargine N=267; GWAD: exenatide N=253, biphasic insulin aspart N=248). 
Statistical significance of difference compared to placebo or insulin: *p<0.05, **p<0.01,***p<0.0001. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The proportion of men and women in the long term controlled studies was 56% / 44%. 
There were no clinically meaningful differences in change in HbA1c depending on gender. One 
hundred -sixty-five patients ≥ 70 years have been treated with exenatide in the clinical studies. These 
patients were thinner, had a somewhat lower HbA1c and a higher prevalence of mild renal impairment 
compared to patients < 70 years. SU was used by more than 80 % of the older population. The number 
of patients is in line with The International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) guidance on studies in 
support of geriatrics. The older population had a greater decrease in HbA1c and, even more so, in 
weight compared to the younger patients. The increased prevalence of renal impairment in the older 
population may be of importance for these differences. However, when looking at patients with 
normal and mildly impaired renal function, there was little difference in the efficacy of 10 μg BID 
exenatide based on renal function. There were few patients ≥75 years. 
In the long-term placebo-controlled studies subjects with mild renal impairment had greater reductions 
in mean HbA1c at each dose, although not statistically different, from subjects with normal renal 
function. In the active-comparator controlled studies no such differences were seen. Very few patients 
with moderate renal impairment were included in the studies. 
No statistically significant interaction was observed between subject baseline BMI (<30  or ≥30 
kg/m2) and change in HbA1c, although greater, not statistically significant, mean reductions in HbA1c 
were observed in the subgroups with baseline BMI <30 kg/m2 in the long-term placebo-controlled 
studies. Due to the inclusion criteria in the clinical studies, the experience in subjects with BMI≤ 25 
must be considered as limited (only 36 patients have been exposed to the recommended dose of 10μg 
BID). Normal weighted subjects tend to lose less weight compared to those with higher BMI. The 
limited data presented does not indicate any risks associated with this weight loss.  
Patients that did not lose weight had a reduction in HbA1c although smaller compared to those who 
lost weight. The correlation between weight loss and change in HbA1c was statistically significant, but 
rather weak. Weight loss seems to explain parts of the reduction in HbA1c associated with exenatide 
treatment, but is not the sole explanation. 
Uncontrolled extension studies 
The long-term uncontrolled extension Studies 112E, 113E, and 115E were open-label, multi-centre 
extension studies designed to assess long-term glucose control (as measured by HbA1c) and long-term 
safety and tolerability of treatment with 10 μg exenatide in subjects concomitantly treated with Met 
(112E), SU (113E) or Met + SU (115E).  
Efficacy measure in Studies 112E, 113E and 115E included the change in HbA1c from baseline to 
Week 82, change in fasting glucose concentrations, body weight, lipids, and in Studies 112E and 
113E, insulin, and proinsulin concentrations.   
At Week 82 of the 3 long-term uncontrolled extension studies, subjects demonstrated improvements in 
glucose control by mean reductions in HbA1c values and fasting glucose concentrations, and sustained 
mean reduction in body weight.  There was also a trend towards larger changes in triglycerides and 
HDL-cholesterol in those who lost most weight. 
Table 2: 
Change From Baseline to Week 82 ( Mean [SD]) 
N 
HbA1c (%) 
Fasting Glucose 
(mmol/L) 
Body Weight (kg) 
Studies 112E, 113E, and 115E  
Cohort I  
Cohort II 
265 
128 
-1.2 (1.32) 
-1.2 (1.03) 
-0.94 
-1.70 
-4.6 (5.74) 
-3.3 (4.27) 
• Cohort I subjects received 5 µg or 10 µg exenatide for 26 weeks during the placebo-controlled study, 
followed by 10 µg exenatide during the uncontrolled extension study maintenance period. 
16/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Cohort II subjects received placebo for 30 weeks during the placebo-controlled study, followed by 
exenatide 10 µg during the uncontrolled extension study maintenance period. 
The results from the extension studies must be interpreted with caution, since more than 80% of the 
subjects either withdrew or discontinued due to administrative reasons after week 52. A bias for 
subjects with good treatment responses to continue through 82 weeks of treatment cannot be excluded. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In the scenario for the possible add-on use of exenatide to OAD, the alternative treatment for the 
patient is add-on therapy with insulin, and therefore the crucial issues are whether exenatide has an 
add-on effect and whether its ´risk/benefit profile is comparable to insulin in the treatment of patients 
considered as OAD failures. 
When evaluating efficacy, the most important issue concerning the study population is that it reflects 
the target population, in this case patients with type 2 diabetes who fail to reach glycaemic control 
despite maximal tolerable dose of OAD. Among the long term placebo controlled studies, study 115 
best reflected this population. The study populations in the long-term active-comparator-controlled 
studies had treatment with both Met and SU and were representative of the target population.  
In the long-term placebo controlled studies the reduction of HbA1c was almost 1 % with a tendency to 
a diminishing effect towards the end of the studies. The reduction of HbA1c was somewhat larger in 
the comparator-controlled study GWAA. The results were poorer for the exenatide and insulin treated 
subjects in study GWAD. The main reason for the differing results between the comparator controlled 
studies probably was the difference in baseline HbA1c with higher concentrations in study GWAD. 
According to the non-inferiority margin of 0.4 %, exenatide was non-inferior to insulin. However, the 
mean daily insulin doses at the end of the studies were low. To claim clinical non-inferiority to insulin, 
it must be proven that the insulin treated subjects had maximally tolerated doses of insulin. This is 
doubtful, especially in study GWAD in which the biphasic insulin aspart - group only had a reduction 
of HbA1c with 0.86 % and only 8.5 % of the subjects reached HbA1c below 6.5 %. Based on the non-
blinded nature of the insulin-comparator studies, a potential bias towards lower insulin doses cannot 
be fully excluded; however, the Applicant has tried to minimise this potential bias. 
The decrease in body weight associated with treatment with exenatide was consistent and persistent 
throughout all studies. This is an advantage especially in the comparison with insulin. Due to the 
inclusion criteria in the clinical studies, the experience in subjects with BMI≤ 25 must be considered 
as limited. Normal weighted subjects tended to lose less weight compared to those with higher BMI. 
The limited data presented does not indicate any risks associated with this weight loss.  
Patients that did not lose weight had a reduction in HbA1c although smaller compared to those who 
lost weight.  
There were no statistically significant interactions between age, gender or BMI on the effect of 
exenatide. One-hundred -sixty-five patients ≥ 70 years have been treated with exenatide in the clinical 
studies. These patients were thinner, had a somewhat lower HbA1c and a higher prevalence of mild 
renal impairment compared to patients < 70 years. The older population had a greater decrease in 
HbA1c and, even more so, in weight compared to the younger patients. There were few patients ≥75 
years and efficacy and safety in these subjects can not be considered as fully evaluated. 
In the long term placebo controlled studies subjects with mild renal impairment had greater reductions 
in mean HbA1c at each dose, although not statistically different from subjects with normal renal 
function. In the active-comparator controlled studies no such differences were seen. Very few patients 
with moderate renal impairment were included in the studies. Patients with severe renal dysfunction 
were not included in the studies. 
Towards the end of the placebo-controlled studies there seemed to be a reduction in efficacy with a 
tendency to an increase of HbA1c, however during the extension studies, there were no such trends. At 
week 82 about 50 % of the subjects had achieved HbA1c ≤ 7% which is a better result compared to the 
original studies.  The reduction in body weight continued during the studies. 
The results from the extension studies must be interpreted with caution, since more than 80% of the 
subjects either withdrew or discontinued due to administrative reasons after week 52. 
17/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, exenatide has a moderate add-on effect when combined with OAD in patients who are 
considered as OAD failures. Exenatide was non-inferior to insulin in the referred studies as evaluated 
by the pre-specified non-inferiority margin. Based on the non-blinded nature of the insulin-comparator 
studies, a potential bias towards lower insulin doses cannot be fully excluded. The decrease in body 
weight associated with treatment with exenatide was consistent and persistent throughout all studies. 
This is an advantage especially in the comparison with insulin. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Exenatide is a new substance not previously used in clinical circumstances and therefore safety issues 
are of great importance. The safety database is sufficiently large, but is notable that the mean exposure 
per subject is less than a year in the efficacy and safety studies. This is not long considering that the 
treatment of patients with type 2 DM often continues for decades. The submission consists of 36 
completed studies and 9 ongoing studies supporting the safety and efficacy of exenatide in the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes in combination with Met, a SU, or both Met and a SU.  As of 15. June 
2005, safety data from 35 of the 36 completed studies were integrated in the Completed Studies 
database.  The updated database included 122 patients treated with exenatide and thiazolidinediones 
with or without metformin. No new safety signals were recorded but the mean duration of exposure 
was no more than 13.7 weeks. The safety of exenatide has been evaluated in 3945 subjects (2997 
received exenatide. Approximately 825 patients in the controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies 
have been exposed to exenatide for more than one year. In the long term controlled studies database 
the mean exposure per subject was 0.84 years 
•  Adverse events 
The most common adverse events are hypoglycaemia and nausea/vomiting.  
Table 3: Adverse events reported by at least 5% of exenatide-treated subjects (ITT subjects1)  
_______________________Efficacy and Safety_________________  _____Total_____ 
_______________________Controlled________________ 
Short-Term 
Long-Term 
Long-term 
Comparator 
Exenatide 
(N=278) 
Placebo
(N=86) 
Exenatide
(N=963) 
Placebo
(N=483) 
Exenatide
(N=535) 
Insulin 
(N=515) 
Uncon- 
trolled 
Exenatide 
(N=974) 
[2] 
Exenatide
(N=2535)
Placebo
(N=846) 
[3] 
123(44) 
35(13) 
11(4) 
2(1) 
5(6) 
2(2) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
419(44)
123(13)
132(14)
54(6) 
87(18)  245(46)
87(16) 
18(4) 
48(9) 
33(7) 
17(3) 
10(2) 
24(5) 
18(3) 
13(3) 
2(<1) 
441(45)  1303(51) 225(27) 
107(13) 
116(12)  481(19)
57(7) 
130(13)  336(13)
25(3) 
138(5) 
43(4) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Feeling jittery 
4(1) 
0(0) 
90(9) 
20(4) 
0(0) 
1(<1) 
106(11)  174(7) 
20(2) 
Infections and infestations
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Nasopharyngitis 
Urinary tract infection 
Influenza 
Sinusitis 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
9(3) 
5(6) 
122(13)
72(15) 
18(3) 
17(3) 
173(18)  290(11)
81(10) 
3(1) 
4(1) 
6(2) 
5(2) 
2(2) 
1(1) 
1(1) 
0(0) 
64(7) 
26(3) 
38(4) 
56(6) 
39(8) 
12(2) 
21(4) 
28(6) 
50(9) 
12(2) 
25(5) 
9(2) 
48(9) 
8(2) 
31(6) 
7(1) 
97(10) 
85(9) 
57(6) 
58(6) 
203(8) 
126(5) 
124(5) 
117(5) 
41(5) 
15(2) 
22(3) 
28(3) 
Hypoglycaemia 
18(6) 
0(0) 
189(20)
41(8) 
290(54) 288(56)  253(26)  697(27)
53(6) 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Back pain 
1(<1) 
1(1) 
32(3) 
16(3) 
28(5) 
18(3) 
48(5) 
116(5) 
20(2) 
Nervous system disorders 
18/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_______________________Efficacy and Safety_________________  _____Total_____ 
_______________________Controlled________________ 
Short-Term 
Long-Term 
Long-term 
Comparator 
Exenatide 
(N=278) 
16(6) 
15(5) 
Placebo
(N=86) 
1(1) 
2(2) 
Exenatide
(N=963) 
82(9) 
84(9) 
Placebo
(N=483) 
30(6) 
30(6) 
Exenatide
(N=535) 
37(7) 
19(4) 
Insulin 
(N=515) 
36(7) 
8(2) 
Uncon- 
trolled 
Exenatide 
(N=974) 
[2] 
67(7) 
80(8) 
Exenatide
(N=2535)
299(12)
235(9) 
Placebo
(N=846) 
[3] 
90(11) 
62(7) 
Headache 
Dizziness 
(Percentage in brackets) 1As of 15 June 2005 
Hypoglycaemia 
The incidence of hypoglycaemia associated with exenatide was mainly dependent on the concomitant 
use of SU. This is not surprising since both exenatide and SU stimulate the beta cells to produce more 
insulin. A special warning on this is included in section 4.4 of the SPC. In the 16 week placebo-
controlled study with a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin, no significant increase of 
symptomatic mild to moderate hypoglycaemia was reported compared to placebo.  
The incidence of severe hypoglycaemia was low. In the active comparator controlled studies the 
incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar in exenatide and insulin treated subjects. 
In study 115 two regimens of SU was examined (maximal effective dose and minimal recommended 
dose). 
Incidence of hypoglycaemia by sulphonylurea use  
Table 4: 
Sulphonylurea Use 
Non-Sulphonylurea Use 
113 and 115 
Max SU Regimen 
115 
Min SU Regimen 
112 
Hypoglycaemic Episodes 
Incidence n (%) 
Total Number of Episodes 
Exenatide 
(N=496) 
132 (26.6) 
355 
Placebo 
(N=243) 
22 (9.1) 
52 
Exenatide 
(N=244) 
46 (18.9) 
98 
Placebo 
(N=127) 
13 (10.2) 
23 
Exenatide 
(N=223) 
Placebo 
(N=113) 
11 (4.9) 
14 
6 (5.3) 
7 
Nausea 
Nausea and vomiting were common side effects in the clinical studies. Nausea affected 50% of the 
patients that were treated with exenatide, but with continued therapy, the frequency and severity 
decreased in most patients who initially experienced nausea. Nausea contributed in some extent to the 
reduction of body weight, but was clearly not the sole explanation. Most episodes of nausea were mild 
to moderate and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the frequency and 
severity decreased in most patients who initially experienced nausea.  Although the mechanisms for 
nausea with exenatide treatment are not well understood, it is likely that the events are centrally 
mediated. Furthermore, it is known that exenatide slows gastric emptying which also may contribute 
to the nausea. 
Anti-exenatide antibodies 
Antibody development is not unexpected as exenatide is a synthetic version of a peptide that is derived 
from a non-mammalian source and therefore may be recognised as an antigen by the immune system. 
Patients who developed anti-exenatide antibodies had similar rates and types of adverse events as 
those with no anti-exenatide antibodies. In the three placebo-controlled trials (n=963) 38 % of patients 
had low titre anti-exenatide antibodies at 30 weeks. For this group, the level of glycaemic control 
(HbA1c) was generally comparable to that observed in those without antibody titres. An additional 6 % 
of patients had higher titre antibodies at 30 weeks. About half of this 6 % (3 % of the total patients 
given BYETTA in the controlled studies), had no apparent glycaemic response to BYETTA. In two 
19/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
insulin-comparator controlled trials (n=475) comparable efficacy and adverse events were observed in 
BYETTA-treated patients regardless of antibody titre.  
Few patients have been subject to retreatment with exenatide. The Applicant therefore committed to 
enrol a separate retreatment study. 
Antibody Assay 
The company has developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to detect antibodies 
against AC2993(=Exenatide). The method has been validated to detect antibodies in human, 
cynomologus monkey and mouse plasmas. The method has been properly validated. 
Cross-reactivity between anti-exenatide antibodies and glucagon and GLP-1 has been examined in one 
study in which no cross-reactivity was shown. The Applicant has commited to further study the issue 
of cross-reactivity in other studies. 
To address immune response related questionst the Applicant has committed to develop an assay for 
determining the isotypes of the antibodies, since certain isotypes are more likely to yield neutralizing 
antibodies than other isotypes. The applicant will provide the data as a follow-up measure. The 
Applicant has also committed to try to further develop an existing assay to detect neutralizing 
antibodies with higher sensitivity than currently possible. Such an assay would make also isotyping of 
antibodies irrelevant. Furthermore, the Applicant has committed to study anti-exenatide antibodies and 
HbA1c in 2 planned studies to provide information on immunogenicity of the products obtained from 
the 2 exenatide suppliers, since there have been indications that there may be differences in the 
immune response to the two products. Overall, the issue of the influence of anti-exenatide antibodies 
is considered only an efficacy effect and not a safety issue. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Coronary artery disease  
Among all exenatide-treated subjects, the system organ class of cardiac disorders had the highest 
percentage (2%) of subjects experiencing serious adverse events (SAE).  The most common (1%) SAE 
within this system organ class was coronary artery disease (CAD).  More exenatide- (17 of 2997 [1%]) 
than placebo-treated (1 of 975 [<1%]) subjects experienced serious CAD events in the safety update of 
the placebo-controlled studies. However, the subject-rate of TE CAD and TE CAD-related disorders 
(serious and non-serious) in the total exenatide-treated population of both the original and updated 
safety summaries was less than that observed in the total placebo-treated population.   
Neoplasms 
Safety data from the long term placebo-controlled studies were integrated for the first time in the last 
quarter of 2003 and showed that a disproportionate number of malignancies had occurred among 
exenatide- (11 of 963, 1.1%) compared with placebo-treated subjects (2 of 483, 0.4%) in these studies. 
In the active-comparator studies both the exenatide- (1%) and insulin-treatment (1%) groups had 
comparable incidences of neoplasms.  Exenatide-treated subjects in the uncontrolled studies had a 2% 
incidence of neoplasms. 
A group of experts in cancer epidemiology, histopathology, and clinical oncology concluded that a 
causal relationship between exenatide treatment and cancer is unlikely, although the relatively small 
number of subjects and short duration of follow-up precluded a definitive conclusion. The lack of a 
causal relationship was supported by: 
•  no observed cancer signal in non-clinical genotoxicity studies 
•  no observed cancer signals in lifetime carcinogenicity studies in two species 
•  heterogeneity of the types of malignancies observed 
• 
relatively short interval between initial exenatide exposure and diagnosis time for many 
cancers reported in the controlled studies 
•  decreased malignancy event rate with increasing exenatide exposure time. 
In the rat studies a numerical increase in benign thyroid C-cell adenomas was observed in female rats 
at all exenatide doses, however, when adjusted for survival, the numerical increase was not significant. 
Five exenatide-treated subjects in the completed or ongoing studies of the exenatide clinical 
programme were identified by the MedDRA preferred terms as neoplasm of the thyroid gland (3 
thyroid neoplasm, 1 thyroid cyst and 1 benign neoplasm).  In all cases, the TEAEs were recorded as 
non-serious events and assessed as unrelated or probably not related to study medication. 
20/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
After an update of the clinical studies database (December 2005) no significant difference in the 
incidence of malignant neoplasms between exenatide and insulin-and placebo-treated subjects was 
observed. 
•  Laboratory findings (including analyses of ECG) 
There were no clinically meaningful changes from baseline to endpoint in haematology, chemistry, or 
urine analysis assessments for exenatide-, insulin-, or placebo-treatment groups in any of the efficacy 
and safety studies. There were no indications that exenatide has the potential to induce clinically 
significant ECG changes. 
Other adverse events 
There was an increased incidence of the general disorder “feeling jittery” in exenatide subjects 
compared to placebo. The increased incidence may be related to the incidence of hypoglycaemia since 
92 % of the patients were taking SU and “feeling jittery” is a recognised symptom of hypoglycaemia. 
Significantly more exenatide- (5.1%) than insulin- and placebo- (3.0%) treated subjects in these 
studies reported injection site and injection-site reaction related events. 
The incidence of pedal oedema was not increased in patients treated with exenatide and 
thiazolidinediones with or without metformin compared to placebo. 
•  Safety in special populations 
There was not a statistically significant increase in overall incidence of adverse events in patients with 
mild renal impairment except for an increased incidence of hypoglycaemia. 
There is no clinical data concerning subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment. 
Among exenatide-treated subjects, a higher incidence of hypoglycaemia episodes occurred among 
subjects ≥ 65 years of age compared to those < 65years. However, when hypoglycaemia incidence was 
presented as the yearly rate there was no difference between age groups. In this analyses 
hypoglycaemia incidence increased with reduced renal function but not with increasing age.  
There were only 36 subjects older than 75 years treated with exenatide. To explore exenatide PK in 
subjects >75 years of age with varying degrees of renal impairment, a 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in the very elderly is proposed as part of the Risk 
Management Plan.  
The clinical experience of the combination of exenatide and thiazolidinediones in patients with renal 
impairment and in patients >65 years is very limited.  
For frequent AEs (> 5%), more exenatide-treated females than males reported nausea, vomiting, 
feeling jittery, and headache.  However, also among insulin- and placebo treated subjects, more 
females than males reported similar adverse events. There was no difference concerning 
hypoglycaemias between males and females. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There were no adverse events in the long-term studies associated with concomitant medications. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Overall, 9% of exenatide-, 1% of insulin-, and 3% of placebo-treated subjects withdrew early from 
controlled and uncontrolled studies because of AEs.  Of 2997 exenatide-treated subjects, 168 (6%) 
discontinued because of gastrointestinal disorders, mostly nausea.  Few exenatide-treated subjects 
(<1%; 5 of 2997 subjects) discontinued because of hypoglycaemia.  More exenatide- (11 of 2997, 
<1%) than insulin- (1 of 658) or placebo-treated (0 of 975) subjects withdrew from studies because of 
neoplasms. 
Post marketing experience 
Pancreatitis 
Concerning post-marketing data until 28 July 2006, 40 spontaneous cases of pancreatitis(37 health 
care professional confirmed) have been reported. This is reflected in section 4.8 of the SPC under the 
heading Spontaneous reports, where the following wording is included: Since market introduction of 
BYETTA, the following additional adverse reactions have been reported: Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Pancreatitis, cases have been reported. 
21/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning a case report published in Diabetes Care, this case of acute pancreatitis is possibly related 
to exenatide use, however the data fall far short of demonstrating a definite association.  
Safety data from the exenatide clinical trial programme did not suggest that exenatide induces 
pancreatitis. 
The Applicant has commissioned an epidemiological database study through United HealthCare 
(UHC) to estimate the annual incidence and prevalence of acute pancreatitis among patients with 
type2 diabetes. The UHC study data showed an estimated 3.74-fold greater incidence of acute 
pancreatitis in the cohort with type 2 diabetes compared with the age-and gender-matched cohort 
without type 2 diabetes. The estimated annualised incidence in the cohort with diabetes was 
107.8/100,000 patient-years versus 28.8/100,000 patient-years for the cohort without diabetes, thus 
strongly suggesting that patients with type 2 diabetes have a higher background incidence of 
pancreatitis.  
The Applicant is committed to investigate this further and plans to commission an additional 
epidemiological database study through UHC to estimate the annual incidence and prevalence of acute 
pancreatitis among patients treated with BYETTA versus those treated with other antidiabetic agents.  
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan (see the table 
below) 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: 
22/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for BYETTA – Potential Risks 
Safety 
Concern 
Anti-exenatide 
Antibodies 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance and targeted 
surveillance of allergic/immunologic 
events(angioodema/anaphylaxis). 
•  Antibody analysis of serum samples in 
LT studies following reports of serious 
allergic/immunologic events. 
•  Further clinical study  to investigate 
antibody formation on the retreatment of 
exenatide  
SPC 4.3: Contraindication regarding 
hypersensitivity to exenatide or any of the 
product’s excipients 
SPC 4.8: Added spontaneous AE reports of 
allergy/hypersensitivity reactions such as 
generalised pruritus and/or urticaria, 
macular or papular rash, angiooedema, and 
anaphylactic reaction. 
Cardiovascular 
Events 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Meta-analyses of CAD AEs from LT 
Not applicable. 
Risk(s) of 
Elevated Pulse 
Rate 
Malignant 
Neoplasms 
studies 2007 & 2009.   
•  Further evaluation in a clinical study  
Not applicable. 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Targeted surveillance of malignant AEs  
•  Meta-analyses of malignant AEs from 
LT studies in 2007 & 2009. 
Not applicable. 
Dehydration 
and Acute 
Renal 
Impairment 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Targeted surveillance of dehydration, 
hypovolaemia, and acute renal 
impairment. 
Pancreatitis 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Targeted surveillance of reports of 
pancreatitis. 
•  Database study to assess incidence rates 
of pancreatitis among exenatide- versus 
other antidiabetic agents. 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Targeted surveillance of reports of events 
of increased INR with concomitant 
warfarin. 
Increased INR 
with 
Concomitant 
Warfarin 
SPC 4.2: Precautionary language in patients 
with moderate renal impairment and 
BYETTA is not recommended for use in 
patients with ESRD or severe renal 
impairment.  
SPC 4.8: Includes spontaneous AEs, 
“Dehydration /increased serum creatinine: 
dehydration, generally associated with 
nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea, some 
reports associated with an elevation of 
serum creatinine.” 
SPC 4.8: Includes spontaneously reported 
AEs, 
Pancreatitis, cases have been reported. 
SPC 4.5: discusses concomitant use of 
exenatide with warfarin.  
SPC 4.8: spontaneously reported AEs, “INR 
increased with concomitant warfarin use, 
some reports associated with bleeding.” 
23/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for BYETTA – Information to be completed 
Safety 
Concern 
Adolescents 
Pregnant 
women 
Very elderly 
(≥75 years of 
age) 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
•  Further PK/PD study 
•  Pregnancy registry  
•  Further PK/PD study 
SPC 4.2: states “There is no experience in 
children and adolescents below 18 years.” 
SPC 4.6: Use in pregnancy and lactation is 
not recommended.   
SPC 4.2: “BYETTA should be used with 
caution and dose escalation from 5 µg to 10 
µg should proceed conservatively in patients 
>70 years. The clinical experience in 
patients >75 years is very limited.” 
Abbreviations: AE= adverse event, CAD =coronary artery disease, ESRD = end-stage renal disease, INR = 
international normalised ratio; LT = long-term clinical; PK = pharmacokinetic, PD = pharmacodynamic; SPC 
= Summary of Product Characteristics 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this medicinal product is considered satisfactory when used with the conditions defined 
in the SPC.  
The documentation provided for the active substance (synthetic peptide exenatide) is comprehensive 
and adequately detailed. 
The pharmaceutical development is adequate and took into consideration the properties and the 
stability of the active substance. The excipients used are common excipients for a parenteral solution. 
Similarly, the packaging material is well documented and no incompatibility has been noticed. 
The validation of the manufacturing process ensures consistency and reproducibility of the finished 
product. 
The finished product has been satisfactorily controlled and stability studies conducted under ICH 
conditions showed that the product is stable throughout the proposed shelf-life. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were some outstanding quality issues with no impact on the 
benefit/risk. The applicant undertook to provide the necessary information as follow-up measures 
within an agreed timeframe and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of this 
additional information. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Exenatide binds to and stimulates the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor in both human- and rat-based 
receptor systems in vitro and enhances insulin production in presence of increased glucose 
concentration in vivo. 
The primary pharmacodynamic studies provided adequate evidence, that exenatide markedly improves 
glucose control in diabetic mice and rats via various mechanisms. 
A series of pharmacokinetic studies was conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys. The kidney 
was the main organ for clearance. Clearance was not effected in a liver injury model. 
In single and repeat dose toxicity studies in mice and in rats, no important toxicity was observed. 
Carcinogenicity studies did not raise any concern for human safety. 
Exenatide showed no effect on fertility and early embryonic development in mice. In the embryo-
foetal toxicity studies in mice and rabbits, maternal food consumption and body weights were reduced. 
In both species, developmental toxicity occurred in conjunction with maternal toxicity but there were 
no evidence for teratogencity. The control of blood glucose is of great importance during pregnancy 
and this is best achieved by insulin treatment. Therefore, exenatide should not be used during 
pregnancy, which is reflected in the SPC section 4.6. 
Overall, the non-clinical safety studies have not identified any important safety concerns which affect 
the benefit risk assessment. 
24/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
Exenatide is an incretin mimetic and is thought to act by mimicking some of the effects of glucagon-
like peptide 1 (GLP-1). GLP-1, an endogenous incretin, facilitates insulin secretion following its 
release from the gut into the circulation in response to food intake.  Exenatide therefore acts 
differently from any other currently approved therapeutic agent. 
Studies considered to be pivotal for the evaluation of exenatide included 3 long-term placebo-
controlled studies, where the magnitude of response of adding exenatide (5 µg or 10 µg BID) to a 
concomitant therapy with oral antidiabetics (OAD; Metformin [Met], a sulfonylurea [SU], or Met + 
SU) was investigated. In these long-term placebo-controlled studies the reduction of HbA1c, as the 
primary outcome parameter suggested by CHMP guidelines, was almost 1 %, this was considered to 
be an effect of a relevant magnitude.  There was a tendency to a diminishing effect towards the end of 
the studies. The reduction of HbA1c differed in comparator-controlled studies, with a likely 
explanation being different baseline HbA1c values. Towards the end of the placebo-controlled studies 
there seemed to be a reduction in efficacy with a tendency to an increase of HbA1c, but during the 
extension of these studies, this trend was reversed, with a higher percentage of subjects having 
achieved an HbA1c ≤ 7% at week 82. The results from the extension studies must be interpreted with 
caution, since more than 80% of the subjects either withdrew or discontinued due to administrative 
reasons after week 52. The studies showed also improvements in secondary endpoints, e.g. in fasting 
and postprandial glucose concentrations at endpoint compared to baseline. 
The indication for exenatide is the “Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with 
metformin and/or sulphonylureas in patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on 
maximally tolerated doses of these oral therapies.” 
In this scenario, the alternative treatment for the patient is an add-on therapy with insulin, requiring 
active-comparator controlled studies to compare the risk/benefit profile of exenatide to insulin in the 
treatment of patients considered as OAD failures. Two such long-term active-comparator controlled 
studies were therefore considered to be pivotal and investigated the non-inferiority of exenatide 
treatment (10 µg BID) to insulin treatment (insulin glargine, QD, and biphasic insulin aspart, BID, 
repectively) within an add-on study design. In these active-comparator-controlled studies, exenatide 
was noninferior to insulin, as judged by a predefined non-inferiority margin of 0.4 %. The mean daily 
insulin dose at the end of the studies was 24.9 IU/day, (range 4-95 IU/day), at the end of study GWAA 
with insulin glargine and mean insulin dose 24.4 IU /day, (range 3-78 IU/day), at the end of study 
GWAD with biphasic insulin aspart).  The patients may not have reached maximally tolerated doses of 
insulin, although study protocols required the physicians to use best clinical practise to achieve blood 
glucose target control without increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia. 
 Based on the non-blinded nature of the insulin-comparator studies, a potential bias towards lower 
insulin doses cannot be fully excluded; however, the Applicant has tried to minimise this potential 
bias.  In study GWAD the biphasic insulin aspart-group had a reduction of HbA1c of 0.86 % and only 
8.5 % of the subjects reached HbA1c below 6.5 % and this was considered to be a limitation of the 
result. 
The study population in the long-term placebo-controlled studies did reasonably well reflect the target 
population, which is a crucial issue for evaluating efficacy. The target population was in this case 
patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to reach glycaemic control despite maximal tolerable dose of 
OAD. The study population in the long-term active-comparator-controlled studies had treatment with 
both Met and SU and were also representative of the target population. 
There was a decrease in body weight associated with treatment with exenatide, which was consistent 
and persistent throughout all studies. This was considered to be a distinct advantage especially in the 
comparison with insulin. Due to the inclusion criteria in the clinical studies, the experience in subjects 
with BMI ≤ 25 is considered as limited. Subjects with a normal weight tended to lose less weight 
compared to those with higher BMI. The limited data presented did not indicate any risks associated 
with this weight loss. Patients that did not lose weight had a reduction in HbA1c although smaller 
compared to those who lost weight.  
25/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no statistically significant interactions between age, gender or BMI on the effect of 
exenatide. One-hundred -sixty-five patients ≥ 70 years have been treated with exenatide in the clinical 
studies. These patients were thinner, had a somewhat lower HbA1c and a higher prevalence of mild 
renal impairment compared to patients < 70 years. The older population had a greater decrease in 
HbA1c and, even more so, in weight compared to the younger patients. There were few patients ≥75 
years and experience with efficacy and safety in these subjects is thus very limited. 
Subjects with mild renal impairment had a trend to greater reductions in mean HbA1c at each dose in 
the long-term placebo-controlled studies, which, however, was not seen in the active-comparator 
controlled studies. Very few patients with moderate renal impairment, and no patients with severe 
renal dysfunction were included in the studies. Knowledge about exenatide action in various stages of 
renal insufficiency is therefore very limited. 
Safety 
Exenatide is a new substance not previously used in clinical circumstances and therefore safety issues 
are of great importance. The safety database is sufficiently large, however the mean exposure per 
subject is less than a year in the efficacy and safety studies. This is not long considering that the 
treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes often continues for decades. The updated database included 
122 patients treated with exenatide and thiazolidinediones with or without metformin. No new safety 
signals were recorded but the mean duration of exposure was no more than 13.7 weeks. The safety of 
exenatide has been evaluated in about 3000 subjects. 
The most common adverse events are hypoglycaemia and nausea/vomiting. Hypoglycaemia is 
primarily a risk in the co-treatment with sulfonylureas (SU). This is not surprising since both 
medicinal products stimulate the beta cells to produce more insulin. Warnings concerning this 
combination are included in the SPC. 
Nausea and vomiting were common side effects in the clinical studies. Nausea affected 50% of the 
patients that were treated with exenatide, but with continued therapy, the frequency and severity 
decreased in most patients who initially experienced nausea. Nausea contributed to some extent to the 
reduction of body weight, but was clearly not the sole explanation. Most episodes of nausea were mild 
to moderate and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the frequency and 
severity decreased in most patients who initially experienced nausea.  Although the mechanisms for 
nausea with exenatide treatment are not well understood, it is likely that the events are centrally 
mediated. Furthermore, it is known that exenatide slows gastric emptying which also may contribute 
to the nausea.   
There was an observed slightly increased incidence of neoplasms in patients treated with exenatide in 
the placebo controlled studies. Clinical experts have considered this association to be unlikely, and an 
update of the clinical studies database (December 2005) showed no significant difference in the 
incidence of malignant neoplasms between exenatide and insulin-and placebo-treated subjects. 
However, continued surveillance of the incidence of neoplasms will be carried out and is implemented 
as a follow-up measure. 
There does not seem to be any clinically relevant differences in adverse events associated with age or 
gender. However, there are some indications that subjects older than 65 years of age may have an 
increased incidence of hypoglycaemia. The number of subjects older than 70 years was sufficient 
according to ICH guidelines, however, only 36 patients older than 75 years were treated with 
exenatide. This limited experience is mentioned in the SPC and further studies in this patient group rea 
planned and implemented as a follow-up measure. 
Patients with mild renal dysfunction had an increased risk of hypoglycaemia. Patients with moderate 
renal dysfunction were few, and no clinical data were presented for these subjects. The titration from 5 
to 10 μ BID should be performed cautiously in patients over 70 years and patients with moderate renal 
dysfunction. The clinical experience of the combination of exenatide and thiazolidinediones in patients 
with renal impairment and in patients >65 years is very limited. These issues are considered in the 
SPC. 
Exenatide has not been associated with ECG-changes or clinically relevant changes in laboratory 
parameters. About 45 % of the patients developed anti-exenatide antibodies in the controlled studies. 
There was no consistent pattern of increased incidence or a different pattern of AE in subjects with 
anti-bodies compared to those without immunologic response. For further information, see section of 
efficacy. 
26/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
User testing has been performed satisfactorily on the Product Information and the User Manual. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Efficacy and safety of exenatide has been investigated in about 3000 patients with type 2 diabetes. 
Exenatide had an add-on effect when combined with OAD in patients who are considered as OAD 
failures. The reduction of HbA1c in the long term controlled studies was approximately 1% and this 
was considered as a clinically relevant effect by the CHMP. Treatment with exenatide was associated 
with a decrease in body weight. A main risk associated with exenatide is hypoglycaemia, in particular 
in the combination treatment with a sulfonylurea. Overall, the benefit/risk ratio for exenatide was 
considered as positive by the CHMP, provided that it is used as an add-on therapy within the limits 
described in the SPC. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
•  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns 
•  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
Not applicable 
Market exclusivity 
Not applicable 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  BYETTA  in  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus  in  combination  with  metformin,  and/or  sulphonylureas  in  patients  who  have  not  achieved 
adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these oral therapies was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
27/27 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
