Assessment report
for
BYETTA
International non-proprietary name:
exenatide
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000698/II/0021
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction
BYETTA contains exenatide, which is glucagon like peptide 1 analogue. BYETTA received a marketing 
authorisation in the EU on 20 November 2006 and is approved for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus in combination with metformin, and/or sulphonylureas in patients who have not achieved 
adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these oral therapies. 
The currently approved indication is:
BYETTA is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in
combination with metformin, and/or sulphonylureas in patients who have
not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of
these oral therapies.
The purpose of the Type II variation is to include information concerning the use of exenatide with a 
thiazolidinedione (TZD). The following indication is proposed;
BYETTA is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with:
●metformin
● sulphonylureas
●thiazolidinediones
●metformin and a sulphonylurea
●metformin and a thiazolidinedione
in patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated
doses of these oral therapies.
Additionally, amendments to the SmPC sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 and the PL are proposed. Also Annex 
II has been updated to reflect the new version number of the Risk Management Plan (RMP).
The MAH has requested a waiver for the new indication in children. The PDCO has agreed with this 
waiver (decision 15 January 2010).
1.2.  Non-clinical aspects
No non-clinical data or discussion was included in the dossier therefore MAH was requested to discuss 
the potential for pharmacological and/or toxicological interactions between exenatide and TZD, and 
justify the absence of non-clinical studies on the combination.
Potential for Pharmacokinetic Interaction
The  MAH  believes  that  based  on  the  known  clearance  properties  of  exenatide  (passive renal 
elimination) and TZDs (hepatic clearance), a metabolism-based interaction between these 2 agents is 
not probable. However, a possible pharmacokinetic interaction exists due to exenatide’s known action 
of delaying gastric emptying, which has been shown to reduce the Cmax of concomitantly administered 
oral drugs without an accompanying change in AUC. Although no clinical or nonclinical pharmacokinetic 
studies have been conducted to evaluate the interaction of exenatide and concomitant TZDs, the long-
term placebo controlled studies (GWAP and GWCG) provide an assessment of the efficacy and safety of 
these  therapies.  In  Studies GWAP  and  GWCG,  subjects  with  type  2 diabetes,  inadequately  controlled 
with  optimally effective  doses  of  TZDs  alone,  or  TZDs  and  metformin,  were  randomly  assigned  to 
either placebo  or  exenatide  treatment  for  16  or  26  weeks,  respectively.  These  studies  (GWAP  and 
GWCG) have shown that concomitant TZD usage results in an increase in efficacy, without any signs of 
additive safety concerns, which confirms a lack of clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions.
Potential for Pharmacological Interaction
Byetta  and  TZD  produce  their  antihyperglycemic  pharmacological  actions  by  2  distinctly different 
mechanisms  of  action.  Byetta  is  a  GLP-1  receptor  agonist  that  enhances  glucose-dependent  insulin 
secretion  by the  pancreatic  beta  cell,  suppresses  inappropriately  elevated  glucagon  secretion,  and
slows  gastric  emptying. Thiazolidinediones  produce their  antihyperglycemic  pharmacological  effect  by 
improving sensitivity to insulin in peripheral tissues, especially adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and the 
liver. TZDs are potent agonists for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ). These 
receptors modulate the transcription of several insulin responsive genes involved in control of glucose 
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 2/13
and  lipid  metabolism  in  adipose  tissue,  skeletal  muscle, and  the  liver. There  is  no  known  overlap  of 
these  2  pathways. Based  on  the  divergence  in  the  mechanisms  of  action  of  Byetta  and  TZDs,  there 
appears to  be  minimal  risk  of  pharmacological  synergism/interaction;  thus,  nonclinical  animal
pharmacology studies on the combination of Byetta and TZDs are not warranted.
Potential for Toxicological Interaction
The  target  organs  of  toxicity  for  Byetta  and  TZDs  have  been  well-characterized  in  the individual 
nonclinical toxicology programs for Byetta, rosiglitasone, and pioglitasone. There is no commonality of 
target organs identified for Byetta and the TZDs indicating a low potential for synergism/interaction. In 
nonclinical  cardiovascular  safety  assessments  of  Byetta,  there  was  no  evidence  of hERG  blockade  in 
vitro or of QT/QTc prolongation in monkeys, given single and repeated doses of 150 mcg/kg/day (482 
times  the  human therapeutic  exposure).  No dose-limiting  or  target  organ  toxicity  was  noted  in  mice, 
rats,  or  monkeys  at  doses  up  to 760  mcg/kg/day  (182  days),  250  mcg/kg/day  (91  days),  or  150 
mcg/kg/day (273  days) (519,  130,  and  482  times the  human therapeutic  exposure,  respectively).  In 
24-month carcinogenicity  studies  in  rats  and  mice,  Byetta  produced  a  weak  signal  for  thyroid  c-cell
adenomas  in  female  rats  given  18,  70,  or  250  mcg/kg/day  (5,  22,  and  130  times  the human 
therapeutic  exposure,  respectively),  but  not  in  male  rats  or  mice. Product  labeling  for  the  TZDs 
rosiglitazone and pioglitazone has reported heart enlargement at 5, 22, and 2 and 11, 1, and 2 times 
the human therapeutic exposure, respectively, in mice, rats, and dogs. Rosiglitazone produced adipose 
tissue  hyperplasia and  benign  lipomas  in  24-month  carcinogenicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats, 
respectively,  at doses  2  times  the  human  therapeutic  exposure.  Pioglitazone  produced  benign  and
malignant  transitional  cell  tumors  of  the  urinary  bladder  in  male  rats  given  the  maximum
recommended human dose on a mg/m2 basis for 24 months. No tumors were produced in mice given 
pioglitazone  doses  11  times  the  human dose  for  24  months. Based  on  the  marked differences in  the 
target  organ  toxicity  profiles  between  Byetta  and the  TZDs,  the  potential  for  toxicological 
synergism/interaction  resulting  in  reduction  of previously  determined,  single  agent  no-observed 
adverse effect levels (NOAELs) appears to be low. Furthermore, no causes for significant toxicological 
concern were identified in clinical Studies GWAP and GWCG of the proposed combination. On this basis, 
and  in agreement  with  ICH  M3(R2)  guidance  on  combination  drug  toxicity  testing,  nonclinical animal 
toxicology studies on the combination of Byetta and TZDs are not warranted.
It is endorsed by CHMP that there is no concern for any important pharmacological and/or toxicological 
interactions  between  exenatide  and  TZDs  based  on  theoretical  considerations  and  experimental  data. 
The absence of combination studies is justified.
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
The MAH declared that exenatide, as a moderately sized peptide, is exempted from the environmental 
risk assessment requirement, according to Section 2 “Scope and Legal Basis” of the  Guideline on the 
environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00) and 
that Eli Lilly and Company knows of no information that indicates a potential for significant impact on 
the environment from the use of exenatide.
This proposal has been endorsed by CHMP.
1.3.  Clinical aspects
3.3.1. Clinical efficacy
Study Design 
Study GWAP
This  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  two-arm,  parallel,  placebo-controlled,  outpatient 
trial. Patients randomized to exenatide therapy administered 5 μg study drug BID for the first 4 weeks 
of therapy, and then increased their dose to 10 μg BID for the remaining 12 weeks of therapy. Patients 
took their assigned study medication for a total of 16 weeks.
The  primary  objective was  to  test  the  hypothesis  that  glycemic  control,  as  measured  by  change  in 
HbA1c (%) from baseline to endpoint (Week 16, or early discontinuation), with exenatide (BID, before 
morning  and  evening  meals)  is  superior  to  placebo  (BID),  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  and 
inadequate glycemic control taking thiazolidinediones (TZDs) alone or TZDs with metformin (Met).
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 3/13
Patients with type 2 diabetes aged between 21 and 75 years (inclusive), had been treated with TZDs 
alone  (for  at  least  4  months prior  to  screening)  or  with  TZDs  and  Met  (for  at  least  30  days  prior  to 
screening), had an HbA1c between 7.1% and 10.0% (inclusive), had a body mass index
(BMI) >25 kg/m2 and <45 kg/m2, and their body weight must have been stable for at least 3 months 
prior to screening.
The  exclusion  criteria  included  a  clinically  significant  history  of  cardiac  disease  or  presence  of  active 
cardiac disease within the year prior to inclusion in the study and  a history of renal transplantation or 
were  currently receiving  renal  dialysis  or  had  serum  creatinine  ≥1.5  mg/dL  (≥132  μmol/L)  for  males 
and≥1.2 mg/dL (≥110 μmol/L) for females.
The minimum doses for rosiglitazone were ≥4mg daily, for pioglitazone ≥ 30 mg daily. There was no 
required  minimum  dose  for  metformin. The  proportion  of  patients  treated  with  a  combination  of  MET 
and TZD was 80%.
Study GWCG
This  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  randomized,  two-arm,  parallel,  outpatient 
trial designed to compare the effects of twice-daily (BID) exenatide plus oral antidiabetic (OAD) agents 
and placebo BID plus OAD with respect to glycemic control, as measured by HbA1c, in
patients with type 2 diabetes who experienced inadequate glycemic control with TZD alone or TZD plus 
metformin. Patients were treated with study therapy (either exenatide plus OAD or placebo plus OAD) 
for 26 weeks, followed by an optional open-label extension period of a minimum of 12 weeks, during 
which all patients received exenatide BID plus OAD through to study completion.
Patients had type 2 diabetes, were at least 18 years of age, had been treated with TZDs alone (for at 
least 120 days prior to screening) or with TZDs and metformin (for at least 30 days prior to screening), 
had an HbA1c between 7.1% and 10.0% (inclusive), had a body mass index (BMI) 25 kg/m2 BMI45 
kg/m2, and had stable body weight for at least 3 months prior to screening. 
The  exclusion  criteria  included  a  clinically  significant  history  of  cardiac  disease,  renal  disease,  liver 
disease, gastrointestinal disease, or oncolytic disease.
The minimum doses for rosiglitazone were ≥4mg daily, for pioglitazone ≥ 30 mg daily. There was no 
required  minimum  dose  for  metformin. The  proportion  of  patients  treated  with  a  combination  of  MET 
and TZD was 95%.
Study GWBG
This  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  open-label,  parallel-arm  comparator  study  of  out-patients  with 
T2DM who were not adequately controlled using a combination of dual or triple OAD therapy. Patients 
were randomised to exenatide (5 μg twice daily [BID] for the first 4 weeks of therapy and then 10 μg 
BID, before the morning and evening meal) or insulin glargine (‘treat to target’ FPG ≤5.6 mmol/L once 
daily) in addition to their current OAD regimen. Patients who received exenatide during the study and 
completed 6 months of treatment were invited, at the discretion of the investigator, to enter an open-
label extension period.
Patients included in the study presented with T2DM, had been treated with dual or triple OAD therapy 
at a stable dose for at least 3 months prior to randomisation and were at least 30 years of age. HbA1c 
values  were  between  7.5%  and  10.0%,  BMI  was  >27  kg/m2  and  patients  had  at  least  one 
cardiovascular  risk  factor.  Patients  were  excluded  if  they  had  a  malignancy  or  had  been  in  remission 
from a malignancy for less than 5 years, had Class III or IV cardiac disease, uncontrolled hypertension, 
a  history  of  renal  transplantation  or  dialysis,  clinical  signs  or  symptoms  of  liver  disease, 
hamoglobinopathy, chronic anaemia, proliferative retinopathy or metabolic acidosis. 
Table1  OADs at baseline
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 4/13
Study GWAY
This was a randomized, open-label, comparator-controlled, three-arm, multicenter study. One hundred 
and  forty-one  subjects  with  inadequate  glycemic  control  (HbA1c  ≥6.8%  and  ≤10.0%),  despite 
metformin  treatment,  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  exenatide,  rosiglitazone,  or  exenatide  plus 
rosiglitazone,  in  addition  to  their  current  dose  of  metformin.  A  subset  (73)  of  these  subjects 
participated in hyperglycemic and euglycemic clamp procedures. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  test  the  hypothesis  that  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  who  had  not 
achieved  adequate  glycemic  control  with  metformin  treatment,  the  addition  of  exenatide  and 
rosiglitazone  would  provide  superior  beta-cell  function  as  measured  by  the  argininestimulated insulin 
incremental  area  under  the  curve  (ASI-iAUC)  during  a  hyperglycemic  clamp  test,  than adding 
rosiglitazone alone after 20 weeks of treatment.
Rosiglitazone was uptitrated to the maximum recommended dose of 4 mg BID and exenatide  to 10 μg 
BID. Metformin was continued at the same dose and frequency as in the pre-study setting.
The exclusion criteria included cardiac disease or presence of active cardiac disease within 1 year of
screening, including myocardial infarction, clinically significant arrhythmia, unstable angina, moderate 
to severe congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association class III and higher), coronary artery 
bypass surgery or angioplasty. Patients with renal disease or with serum creatinine ≥1.5 mg/dL 
(males) or ≥1.4 mg/dL (females) were excluded.
Patient Disposition
Table  2.  Summary  of  Reasons  for  Discontinuation  for  Studies  Supporting  the  Proposed 
Indication
[1]Column represents subjects who may have been treated with exenatide without TZD 
(GWAY), or with exenatide in addition to TZD and other OADs or with exenatide and OADs 
not including TZDs (GWBG).
In all studies, a greater proportion of subjects treated with exenatide than the other treatment(s) 
discontinued for any reason within a single study. In Study GWAP, more subjects discontinued due to 
adverse events in the exenatide treatment group (n=19 [15.7%]) compared to placebo (n=2 [1.8%]). 
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 5/13
Baseline Demographics
Table 3  Demographics of Exenatide-Treated Subjects 
Study results 
Table 4. Summary of Efficacy Results in Studies H8O-MC-GWAP, H8O-BP-GWBG, and H8O-MC-GWCG 
(ITT Subjects)
*p<0.001; **p=0.009; ***p=0.020; ****p=0.0002
[1] Method of analysis used across all trials was ANCOVA LOCF. Models were similar but not identical.
[2] CI (E-I) or (E-P) = the 2-sided, 95% CI for the LS mean difference between treatments (E-I) or (E-
P).
[3] Subjects may have been treated with exenatide in addition to TZD and other OADs or with OADs 
not including TZDs (GWBG).
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 6/13
Table 5. Summary of Efficacy Results in Study H8O-US-GWAY (ITT Subjects)
Duration of treatment = 20 weeks
Footnote(s): *p<0.05 from baseline. Data are LS means ± SE.
[1] Analysis results based on MMRM.
Table 6. Summary of Subjects Achieving HbA1c Targets in Studies H8O-MC-GWAP and H8O-MC-GWCG 
(Per-Protocol Subjects)
[1] Statistical analysis used the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel method.
[2] Analysis excluded subjects with baseline HbA1c ≤7%.
[3] Analysis excluded subjects with baseline HbA1c ≤6.5%.
Discussion of clinical efficacy
Studies  GWAP  and  GWCG  are  considered  as  the  pivotal  trials  for  the  current  application.  The  study 
designs  with  placebo  as  control  are  considered  as  adequate.  Study  GWAP  was  also  included  in  the 
initial MAA for Byetta.
The majority of the patients in these studies were treated with a combination of metformin and TZD at 
the time of inclusion in the studies and were considered as failures on this dual therapy. The number of 
patients  on  monotherapy  with  TZD  was  limited  (n=33).  However,  considering  the  small  target 
population  for  the  TZD+exenatide  combination,  the  very  limited  safety  data  presented  (not  showing 
any  unexpected safety issues) was considered as acceptable. The dual therapy indication is therefore 
considered as approvable.  Based on the demographic characteristics the study populations seem to be 
representative  of  the  target  population  with  approx.  7  years  duration  of  the  disease  and  HbA1c  of 
around 8% at baseline. However, the number of patients older than 65 years is limited.
3.3.2. Clinical safety
Patient exposure
Table 7.  Summary of Subject Exposures to Exenatide by Concomitant OAD Therapy in Studies H8O-
MC-GWCG,H8O-BP-GWBG, H8O-MC-GWAP, and H8O-US-GWAY (Intent-to-Treat Subjects)
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 7/13
Of the 346 exenatide treated subjects who received TZD therapy, 125 (36%) had exposures 6 to 18 
weeks, 180 (52%) had exposures 18 to 32 weeks, and 17 (5%) had exposures ≥32 weeks.
Adverse events
Gastrointestinal  events,  particularly  nausea,  were  the  most  common  adverse  events  reported  during 
Studies GWAP, GWCG, GWBG, and GWAY.
The percentage of exenatide subjects reporting nausea in these studies was similar to that
of  exenatide-treated  subjects  in  non-TZD  studies. Among  treatment-emergent  adverse  events 
occurring  at  ≥5%  in  the  4  core  studies,  oedema  peripheral  was  notably  higher  than  in  the  non-TZD 
studies.  This  adverse  event  is  well  recognized  with  TZD  treatment  but  was  not  more  frequent  with 
combination  exenatide  and  TZD  (6%)  than with  placebo  (11%).  No  treatment-emergent  cases  of 
pancreatitis were observed in the integrated studies database.
In the 4 core studies, cardiac disorders were reported by 1% of subjects receiving exenatide plus TZD 
(aortic  valve  sclerosis  and  tachycardia),  3%  of  subjects  receiving  insulin  plus  TZD  (arrhythmia  and 
cardiac failure), and no subjects receiving placebo and TZD. 
Table 8.  Summary (%) of Subjects With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events With an Incidence of at 
Least 5%who Received Exenatide Plus Thiazolidinedione (TZD) (Alone or in Combination with other 
Oral Antidiabetic Agents) in Studies GWAP, GWCG, GWBG, and GWAY Compared with Subjects Having 
Same Events in Long-Term, Controlled Exenatide Studies Presented in the Safety Update of Original 
BYETTA Marketing Authorization Application (Intent-to-Treat Population)
More  exenatide  plus  TZD-treated  (9%)  than  placebo- (1%)  or  insulin-treated  (4%)  subjects 
discontinued  from  the  4  core  studies  because  of  adverse  events.  Among  exenatide-treated  patients, 
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 8/13
nausea (17 of 32 exenatide-treated subjects) and vomiting (9 subjects) accounted for the majority of 
discontinuations. 
The incidences of nausea and vomiting leading to withdrawal with exenatide plus TZD treatment were 
slightly  higher  in  the  4  core  studies  (5%  and  3%,  respectively)  than  those of  exenatide-treated 
subjects  in  the  long-term,  placebo- and  comparator-controlled  studies,  including  Study  GWAP, 
presented  in  the  original  BYETTA  MAA.  In  those  long-term  controlled  studies,  the  percentage of 
subjects receiving exenatide who withdrew due to nausea or vomiting was 4% and 1%, respectively. 
However, the overall incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events leading to withdrawal for exenatide-
treated  subjects  receiving  TZD  in  the  4  core  studies  (8%)  was  not  different  from  that  observed  for 
exenatide-treated  subjects  in  the  earlier,  long-term  studies  in  the  BYETTA  MAA  (placebo-controlled, 
5%; insulin-controlled, 6%). These results indicate that exenatide used together with a TZD does not 
result  in  qualitatively  different  gastrointestinal  side  effects  compared  with  other  exenatide/oral  agent 
combinations.
Other events that led to discontinuation of exenatide-treated subjects were cough (moderate severity), 
injection  site  reaction  (mild  severity),  chest  pain  (severe),  breast  cancer  (severe),  diarrhoea  (mild 
severity), and acute renal failure (severe). Of these events, injection site reaction and diarrhoea were 
considered related to study treatment.
Serious adverse events and deaths
Of  346  exenatide-treated  subjects  in  the  4  cores  studies,  8  subjects  (2%)  experienced  a  serious 
adverse event. An additional exenatide-treated subject experienced hypoglycemia that was reported as 
serious  in  the  clinical  study  report  but  was  not  captured  as  serious  in  the  integrated  dataset.  All  of 
these  serious  events  were  classified  as  serious  because  they  were  associated  with  hospitalization  or 
were  considered  clinically  relevant  for  another  unspecified  reason. In  addition,  all  of  the  events,  with 
the exception of a case of campylobacter infection and acute renal failure (both events reported by the 
same  exenatide-treated  subject),  had  resolved  by  the  time  of  final  reporting.  Similar  percentages  of 
placebo- (2%)  and  insulin-treated  (3%)  subjects  experienced  a  serious  adverse  event.  The  overall 
incidence of serious adverse events for exenatide-treated subjects receiving TZD in the 4 core studies 
was not different from that observed for exenatide-treated subjects in the earlier, long-term studies in 
the BYETTA MAA (placebo-controlled, 4%; insulin-controlled, 4%).
No  serious  cardiac  disorders  were  reported  for  subjects  receiving  exenatide  plus  TZD  in  the  4  core 
studies.  One  other  subject  receiving  exenatide  without  TZD  experienced  serious  cardiac  disorders  (1, 
acute  myocardial  infarction;  1,  supraventricular  tachycardia).  One  subject  receiving  insulin  plus  TZD, 
metformin, and SU experienced serious cardiac failure.
Injection Site Reactions
The  treatment-emergent  adverse  event  data  of  the  integrated  studies  database  were  searched  for 
MedDRA  preferred  terms  indicative  of  injection  site  reactions.  No  clinically  meaningful  differences  in 
injection  site  reactions  were  observed  between  exenatide-treated  subjects  who  received  concomitant 
TZDs and exenatide-treated subjects who did not receive TZDs.
Pancreatitis
No  treatment-emergent  cases  of  pancreatitis  were  observed  in  the  integrated  studies  database.  To 
better  understand  the  relationship  between  exenatide  and  pancreatitis  described 
in  some 
spontaneously  reported  cases,  the  MAH  continues  to  pursue  a  drug  safety  program  that  includes 
thorough  investigation  of  individual  spontaneous  case  reports  along  with  clinical  and  epidemiologic 
studies. 
Acute Renal Failure
Two  cases  of  acute  renal  failure  were  observed  in  the  integrated  studies  database;  however,  neither 
was  considered  related  to  treatment.  In  Study  GWBG,  1  exenatide-treated  subject  experienced  the 
serious event of acute renal failure and withdrew from study because of this event. In Study GWAY, 1 
TZD-treated subject experienced the serious event of acute renal failure and remained in study.
While no significant safety issues have been identified in relation to acute renal failure in the exenatide 
preclinical or clinical development programs, spontaneously-reported events of acute renal failure have 
occurred and the MAH continues to monitor these events.
Hypoglycemia
Hypoglycemia was reported in 11% and 7% of subjects taking TZDs who were treated with exenatide 
and  placebo,  respectively,  in  placebo-controlled  studies.  As  with  hypoglycemia  reports  in  the  original 
BYETTA  MAA,  hypoglycemia  events  among  exenatide-treated  subjects  in  the  4  core  studies  appeared 
to  be  related  to  concomitant  use  of  SU.  Twenty  eight  (54.9%)  exenatide-treated  subjects  receiving 
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 9/13
TZD  in  combination  with  SU  reported  hypoglycemic  episodes.  The  incidence  was  substantially  lower 
(12.5%)  in  subjects  receiving  exenatide  in  combination  with  TZD  alone  or  TZD  with  metformin.  The 
incidence of hypoglycemia was not notably different for subjects receiving exenatide plus TZD (6.1%) 
versus subjects receiving those agents and metformin (13.4%). Most hypoglycemic episodes were mild 
or moderate in intensity.
Eight  subjects  (5  exenatide,  3  insulin  glargine)  experienced  severe hypoglycemia.  Four of  the 
exenatide-treated subjects were also receiving SU treatment. 
Laboratory findings
Anti-exenatide antibodies were assessed at baseline and again at study termination or early 
discontinuation in Studies GWAP and GWAY. Of 115 subjects exposed to exenatide and assessed as to 
their antibody status in Study GWAP, 46 (40%) were treatment-emergent anti-exenatide antibody-
positive and 69 (60%) were anti-exenatide antibody-negative at their last study visit. Subjects 
exposed to exenatide in Study GWAY had a similar incidence of treatment-emergent anti-exenatide 
antibody positivity.
Treatment-emergent adverse events potentially associated with immune responses were compared for 
exenatide, insulin, and placebo subjects in the 4 core studies. No clinically relevant differences in the 
incidence or types of potentially immune-related treatment emergent adverse events were observed 
between treatments.
Safety in special populations
Renal function
Subjects in the integrated studies database with mild (n= 86 exposed to exenatide) and moderate (n= 
5 exposed to exenatide) renal impairment were retrospectively identified through a calculation of 
creatinine clearance using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. No subjects with severe renal impairment or 
end-stage renal disease participated in the studies that compose this database.
In all treatment groups (exenatide, exenatide plus TZD, placebo, and insulin) subjects with normal and 
mildly impaired renal function had similar incidences and types of treatment-emergent adverse events.
Age
Review of treatment-emergent adverse events by age subgroup (n= 63  for age: >=65 to <75 and n= 
1 for age: >=75 exposed to exenatide, respectively)  did not indicate any obvious age related 
difference.
Safety Considerations Related to Postmarketing Reports
Concomitant  use  of  exenatide  with  TZD  has  been  approved  for  use  in  some  countries  (US,  2006). 
Experience  with  this  combination  therapy  has  been  recorded  in  the  BYETTA  Periodic  Safety  Updated 
Reports  since  2006.  No  additional  safety  concerns  have  been  identified  for  exenatide  use  in 
combination with TZD alone or in combination with other OADs. Consequently, no changes to current 
pharmacovigilance activities or plans outlined in the Risk Management Plan are needed for a treatment 
indication involving TZDs.
Additional data concerning safety in patients receiving triple therapy
With responses to RSI the MAH has provided, the integrated studies (H8OMC- GWAP, H8O-MC-GWAY, 
H8O-BP-GWBG,  and  H8O-MC-GWCG)  safety  data,  for  patients  using  triple  therapy  of  exenatide  in 
combination  with  TZD  plus  metformin.  The  results  from  these  studies  are  summarized  in  the  table 
below.
Table 9.  Adverse Reactions Reported for Exenatide-treated Subjects in All Integrated Studies by TZD 
Use
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 10/13
Discussion on clinical safety
The  safety assessment  from the  4  safety studies  included  in  the  variation  is limited to  a total  of  343 
subjects  for  19  weeks.  As  expected,  GI  adverse  events  were  common  in  the  exenatide  treated 
patients. However, the combination with TZD did not seem to increase the incidence of GI symptoms 
compared  to  other  exenatide  combinations.  Neither  were  there  any  signs  of  an  increased  risk  of 
oedema when exenatide was added to TZD compared to placebo. No serious cardiac disorders, cases 
of treatment related renal failure or cases of pancreatitis were reported, but it should be remembered 
that  only  17  patients  had  an  exposure  longer  than  32  weeks.  No  deaths  were  reported  during  the  4 
core studies.
Pooling  data  from  the  four  studies  may  be  an  inappropriate  way  to  describe  the  safety  profile 
considering that the studies differed in their demographic data, inclusion/exclusion criteria, their dose 
regimes,  and  use  of  exenatide  in  combination  with  other  antidiabetic  drugs.  The  applicant  was 
requested  to  present  the  safety  profile  for  patients  having  received  the  triple  therapy  applied  for 
without  addition  of  any  other  antidiabetic  drugs.  Additionaly  provided  data  in  RSI  revealed  no  new 
adverse event reactions, beyond those already reported for metformin plus sulfonylurea indication.
1.4.  Risk Management Plan (RMP)
The  MAH  submitted an  updated  RMP  (version  10)  with  responses  to  RSI. MAH  included the  use  of 
exenatide  with  TZD  as  potentially  missing  data  and  has  amended  the  RMP  accordingly.  THE  CHMP, 
having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  routine  pharmacovigilance  was 
adequate to monitor the safety of the product.
1.5.  Changes to the Product Information
The MAH proposed to change the indication in section 4.1 of the SPC as follows: “BYETTA is indicated 
for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with:
●metformin
● sulphonylureas
●thiazolidinediones
●metformin and a sulphonylurea
●metformin and a thiazolidinedione
in patients who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 11/13
doses of these oral therapies.” 
This was accepted by the CHMP.
As a result of the new indication further changes were made to sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1. The Package 
Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
1.6.  Overall conclusions and Benefit-Risk Assessment
In support of the extension of indication 4 clinical studies were submitted. One (GWAP) out of these 4 
studies  has  already  been  assessed  in  the  initial  MAA.  At  that  time  point,  this  trial  was  deemed 
sufficient  to  assess  efficacy,  but  the  study  duration  was  considered  insufficient  by  the  CHMP  to 
determine the safety of exenatide with TZD. A new study has now been completed (Study GWCG, 26 
weeks duration), and data is also available from two other studies (GWBG and GWAY) in which some 
patients are exposed to exenatide and TZD. 
The study design and study populations are basically considered as acceptable. However, the number 
of  patients  on  monotherapy  with  TZD  at  the  time  of  inclusion  was  limited  (n=33)  and  these  patients 
may  not  have  been  representative  for  the  restricted  EU  monotherapy  indication  for  TZDs.  However, 
according  to  further  analyses  by  the  MAH,  21  of  these  patients  may  have  been  representative 
according to European standards.
Benefits
Concerning  efficacy  associated  with  the  addition  of  exenatide  to  TZD  +  metformin,  exenatide  was 
superior to placebo and the treatment resulted in clinically relevant reductions of HbA1c in the pivotal 
studies GWAP and GWCG ( mean reductions - 0.74 and -0.84 %, respectively). Furthermore, in study 
GWBG,  exenatide  was  non-inferior  to  insulin  glargine  concerning  reduction  of  HbA1c  and  in  study 
GWAY,  the  addition  of  exenatide  +rosiglitazone  resulted  in  a  more  pronounced  reduction  of  HbA1c 
compared to either of the drugs alone. Thus, a clinically relevant effect of the addition of exenatide to 
TZD + metformin is indicated by these results. 
Risks
As mentioned above, the main reason why the combination of exenatide with a TZD was not approved 
at the time of MAA, was the limited data concerning safety (121 patients treated for 16 weeks).  The 
exposure  is  now  increased  to  346  patients  out  of  whom  125  had  exposures  6  to  18  weeks,  180  had 
exposures 18 to 32 weeks, and 17 had exposures ≥32 weeks.  Approximately 90 % of these patients 
were treated with exenatide+TZD+ one or more additional drugs (most often metformin). Concerning 
safety in these patients, as expected, GI adverse events were common in exenatide treated patients. 
However, the combination with TZD did not seem to increase the incidence of GI symptoms compared 
to  other  exenatide  combinations.  Neither  were  there  any  signs of  an  increased  risk  of  oedema  when 
exenatide  was  added  to  TZD  compared  to  placebo.  No  serious  cardiac  disorders,  cases  of  treatment 
related renal failure or cases of pancreatitis were reported, but it should be remembered that only 17 
patients  had  an  exposure  longer  than  32  weeks.  No  new  adverse  event  reactions,  beyond  those 
already provided in the SmPC for the current metformin plus sulfonylurea indication, were identified by 
examination of the TZD data by itself.
The target population for dual therapy with TZD + exenatide (patients inadequately controlled by diet 
and  exercise  for  which  metformin  is  inappropriate  because  of  contraindications  or  intolerance)  is  not 
the same as for triple therapy. Patients treated with TZD monotherapy due to intolerance to Met is not 
likely to differ from the population treated with dual therapy, Met+TZD, and for these patients efficacy 
and safety data could be extrapolated between populations. 
The  patients  with  contraindications  to  Met  may  on  the  other  hand  be  a  more  vulnerable  population 
including  patients  with  renal/hepatic  impairment  and  cardiac  disease.  However,  considering  the 
warnings and contraindications for TZD, only patients with renal impairment would be eligible for TZD 
monotherapy.  Considering  that  exenatide  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment,  it  is  indeed  agreed  that  the  target  population  in  Europe  for  the  TZD+exenatide 
combination is likely to be small. Still, some reassurance concerning efficacy and safety is needed and 
it  is  questioned  whether  data  from  21  representative  patients  is  sufficient.  Considering  the  target 
population  (patients  with  mild/moderate  renal  impairment),  the  adverse  events  potentially  expected 
could  be  oedema  (fluid  retention)  and  more  pronounced  gastrointestinal side  effects  (patients  with 
moderate renal impairment have a 36% lower clearance of exenatide). Based on the results in study 
GWAP  as  well  as  on  the  analyses  of  TZD  only  users  in  all  studies  (presented in  the  MAHs  response), 
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 12/13
these potential issues were not confirmed. The safety profile in the dual therapy group was similar to 
the triple therapy group.
Concerning  alternative  add-on  treatments  for  patients  on  TZD  monotherapy,  SU  as  an  alternative 
treatment  to  exenatide  can  lead  to  hypoglycaemia  and  weight  increase,  although  the  long  term 
experience  of  SU  speaks  in  its  favour.  Insulin,  on  the  other  hand,  should  in  general  be  avoided  in 
combination with TZD due to the risk of fluid retention. 
Balance
Submitted studies show that exenatide added to TZD with or without metformin, results in a clinically 
relevant glucose lowering effect without any new, unexpected safety concerns compared to previously 
approved combination indications. The benefit/risk balance is therefore considered as positive and the 
variation is approvable. Considering the small target population for the TZD+exenatide combination, 
the very limited safety data presented was considered as acceptable. The dual therapy indication is 
therefore considered as approvable.
2.  Conclusion
On  24  June  2010 the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, Package Leaflet and Annex 
II.
CHMP variation assessment report
Page 13/13
