EMA/137002/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000698 
EPAR summary for the public 
Byetta 
exenatide 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Byetta. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Byetta. 
What is Byetta? 
Byetta is a solution for injection that contains the active substance exenatide. It is available as prefilled 
injection pens that provide either 5 or 10 micrograms of exenatide in each dose. 
What is Byetta used for? 
Byetta is used to treat type 2 diabetes. It is used together with other antidiabetes medicines in 
patients whose blood glucose (sugar) levels are not adequately controlled with the maximum tolerated 
doses of the other medicines. It can be used with metformin, sulphonylureas, thiazolidinediones, 
metformin and a sulphonylurea, or metformin and a thiazolidinedione. 
Byetta can also be given to patients taking basal insulin (long-acting insulin such as insulin glargine) 
with or without metformin and/or pioglitazone (a thiazolidinedione) and whose blood glucose levels are 
not adequately controlled with these medicines. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Byetta used? 
Byetta is given by injection under the skin of the thigh, the abdomen (tummy) or the upper arm, using 
the injection pen. The pen has a user manual. 
Treatment with Byetta should start at a dose of 5 micrograms twice a day for at least a month. The 
dose can then be increased to 10 micrograms twice a day. A dose higher than 10 micrograms twice a 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
day is not recommended. The first dose of the day is administered within the one hour before the 
morning meal, and the second dose within the one hour before the evening meal. Byetta should never 
be given after a meal. When adding Byetta to a sulphonylurea or basal insulin, the doctor may need to 
reduce the dose of the sulphonylurea or basal insulin because there is a risk of hypoglycaemia (low 
blood sugar levels). Adding Byetta to metformin or pioglitazone is not associated with this risk.  
Patients being treated with Byetta should continue to follow their diet and exercise plans. 
How does Byetta work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Byetta, exenatide, is an ‘incretin mimetic’. This means that it acts in the same way as incretins 
(hormones produced in the gut) by increasing the amount of insulin released by the pancreas in 
response to food. This helps with the control of blood glucose levels. 
How has Byetta been studied? 
Byetta has been studied in eight main studies involving a total of around 3,000 patients whose blood 
glucose was not adequately controlled with other antidiabetes medicines. 
In five of the studies, Byetta was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment), as an add-on to 
metformin (336 patients), sulphonylureas with or without metformin (1,110 patients) or 
thiazolidinediones with or without metformin (398 patients). 
Two further studies compared adding Byetta or an insulin to metformin and sulphonylureas. In one 
study, Byetta was compared with insulin glargine in 456 patients and in the other study it was 
compared with biphasic insulin in 483 patients. 
In another study involving 259 patients, Byetta was compared with placebo, as an add-on to insulin 
glargine. Patients were also taking either metformin or pioglitazone, or a combination of both.  
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the levels of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. At the start of the studies, the patients’ HbA1c levels were around 8.4%. 
What benefit has Byetta shown during the studies? 
Byetta was more effective than placebo in reducing the levels of HbA1c when used in combination with 
other antidiabetes medicines. When it was added to metformin and/or sulphonylureas, the 
5-microgram dose of Byetta decreased HbA1c levels by an average of 0.59% after 30 weeks, and the 
10-microgram dose decreased them by an average of 0.89%. When added to thiazolidinediones with 
or without metformin, the 10-microgram dose of Byetta reduced HbA1c levels by an average of 0.74% 
after 16 weeks and 0.84% after 26 weeks. Little or no effect was seen with placebo. 
Byetta was as effective as injected insulin. The 10-microgram dose of Byetta decreased HbA1c by an 
average of 1.13% after 26 weeks, compared with an average of 1.10% with insulin glargine. In the 
final study, the 10-microgram dose of Byetta decreased HbA1c by an average of 1.01% after 52 
weeks, compared with an average of 0.86% with biphasic insulin.  
Byetta was more effective than placebo when it was given as add-on to insulin glargine (with or 
without other antidiabetes medications), as Byetta decreased HbA1c by an average of 1.7% compared 
with an average of 1.0% in patients taking placebo. 
Byetta  
EMA/137002/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with Byetta? 
In studies, the most common side effects with Byetta (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) were 
hypoglycaemia (when Byetta was used with sulphonylurea with or without metformin), nausea (feeling 
sick), vomiting and diarrhoea. For the full list of all side effects reported with Byetta, see the package 
leaflet. 
Byetta must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to exenatide or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Why has Byetta been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Byetta’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Byetta: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Byetta on 20 November 2006.  
The full EPAR for Byetta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Byetta, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2012. 
Byetta  
EMA/137002/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
