ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Byetta 5 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each dose contains 5 micrograms (mcg) of exenatide in 20 microlitres (mcl), (0.25 mg exenatide 
per mL).
Each dose contains 10 micrograms (mcg) of exenatide in 40 microlitres (mcl), (0.25 mg exenatide 
per mL).
Excipient with known effect:
Byetta 5 mcg: Each dose contains 44 mcg metacresol.
Byetta 10 mcg: Each dose contains 88 mcg metacresol.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection).
Clear, colourless solution.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Byetta is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with:
- metformin
- sulphonylureas
- thiazolidinediones
- metformin and a sulphonylurea
- metformin and a thiazolidinedione
in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these 
oral therapies.
Byetta is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without metformin and/or 
pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these medicinal 
products.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Immediate-release exenatide (Byetta) therapy should be initiated at 5 mcg exenatide per dose 
administered twice daily (BID) for at least one month in order to improve tolerability. The dose of 
exenatide can then be increased to 10 mcg BID to further improve glycaemic control. Doses higher 
than 10 mcg BID are not recommended.
Immediate-release exenatide is available as either a 5 mcg or a 10 mcg exenatide per dose pre-filled 
pen.
2
Immediate-release exenatide can be administered at any time within the 60-minute period before the 
morning and evening meal (or two main meals of the day, approximately 6 hours or more apart). 
Immediate-release exenatide should not be administered after a meal. If an injection is missed, the 
treatment should be continued with the next scheduled dose.
Immediate-release exenatide is recommended for use in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are 
already receiving metformin, a sulphonylurea, pioglitazone and/or a basal insulin. Immediate-release 
exenatide use can be continued when a basal insulin is added to existing therapy. When 
immediate-release exenatide is added to existing metformin and/or pioglitazone therapy, the current 
dose of metformin and/or pioglitazone can be continued as no increased risk of hypoglycaemia is 
anticipated, compared to metformin or pioglitazone alone. When immediate-release exenatide is added 
to sulphonylurea therapy, a reduction in the dose of sulphonylurea should be considered to reduce the 
risk of hypoglycaemia (see section 4.4.). When immediate-release exenatide is used in combination 
with basal insulin, the dose of basal insulin should be evaluated. In patients at increased risk of 
hypoglycaemia reducing the dose of basal insulin should be considered (see section 4.8).
The dose of immediate-release exenatide does not need to be adjusted on a day-by-day basis 
depending on self-monitored glycaemia. Blood glucose self-monitoring is necessary to adjust the dose 
of sulphonylurea or insulin, particularly when Byetta therapy is started and insulin is reduced. A 
stepwise approach to insulin dose reduction is recommended.
Special populations
Elderly
Immediate-release exenatide should be used with caution and dose escalation from 5 mcg to 10 mcg 
should proceed conservatively in patients > 70 years. The clinical experience in patients > 75 years is 
very limited.
Renal impairment
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
50-80 mL/min).
In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min), dose escalation from 
5 mcg to 10 mcg should proceed conservatively (see section 5.2).
Exenatide is not recommended for use in patients with end-stage renal disease or severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) (see section 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The efficacy of exenatide in children and adolescents under 18 years of age was not demonstrated.
Currently available data are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made.
Method of administration
Each dose should be administered as a subcutaneous injection in the thigh, abdomen, or upper arm.
Immediate-release exenatide and basal insulin must be administered as two separate injections.
For instructions for using the pen, see section 6.6 and the user manual included with the leaflet. 
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
3
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Exenatide should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus or for the treatment of diabetic 
ketoacidosis.
Exenatide is not a substitute for insulin. Diabetic ketoacidosis has been reported in insulin-dependent 
patients after rapid discontinuation or dose reduction of insulin (see section 4.2) 
Immediate-release exenatide must not be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection.
Renal impairment
In patients with end-stage renal disease receiving dialysis, single doses of immediate-release 
exenatide 5 mcg increased frequency and severity of gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Exenatide is 
not recommended for use in patients with end-stage renal disease or severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min). The clinical experience in patients with moderate renal 
impairment is very limited (see section 4.2).
There have been uncommon, spontaneously reported events of altered renal function, including 
increased serum creatinine, renal impairment, worsened chronic renal failure and acute renal failure, 
sometimes requiring hemodialysis. Some of these events occurred in patients experiencing events that 
may affect hydration, including nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhoea and/or receiving medicinal 
products known to affect renal function/hydration status. Concomitant medicinal products included 
angiotensin converting enzymes inhibitors, angiotensin-II antagonists, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicinal products and diuretics. Reversibility of altered renal function has been observed with 
supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative medicinal products, including
exenatide.
Acute pancreatitis
Use of GLP-1 receptor agonists has been associated with a risk of developing acute pancreatitis. There 
have been spontaneously reported events of acute pancreatitis with exenatide. Resolution of 
pancreatitis has been observed with supportive treatment but very rare cases of necrotising or 
hemorrhagic pancreatitis and/or death have been reported. Patients should be informed of the 
characteristic symptom of acute pancreatitis: persistent, severe abdominal pain. If pancreatitis is 
suspected, exenatide should be discontinued; if acute pancreatitis is confirmed, exenatide should not 
be restarted. Caution should be exercised in patients with a history of pancreatitis.
Severe gastrointestinal disease
Exenatide has not been studied in patients with severe gastrointestinal disease, including gastroparesis. 
Its use is commonly associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, including nausea, vomiting, 
and diarrhoea. Therefore, the use of exenatide is not recommended in patients with severe 
gastrointestinal disease.
Hypoglycaemia
When immediate-release exenatide was used in combination with a sulphonylurea, the incidence of 
hypoglycaemia was increased over that of placebo in combination with a sulphonylurea. In the clinical 
studies patients on a sulphonylurea combination, with mild renal impairment had an increased 
incidence of hypoglycaemia compared to patients with normal renal function. To reduce the risk of 
hypoglycaemia associated with the use of a sulphonylurea, reduction in the dose of sulphonylurea 
should be considered. 
Rapid weight loss
Weight loss greater than 1.5 kg per week has been observed in approximately 5% of clinical trial 
patients treated with exenatide. Weight loss of this rate may have harmful consequences. Patients with 
rapid weight loss should be monitored for signs and symptoms of cholelithiasis.
Concomitant medicinal products
The effect of immediate-release exenatide to slow gastric emptying may reduce the extent and rate of 
absorption of orally administered medicinal products. Immediate-release exenatide should be used 
4
with caution in patients receiving oral medicinal products that require rapid gastrointestinal absorption 
and medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic ratio. Specific recommendations regarding intake of 
such medicinal products in relation to immediate-release exenatide is given in section 4.5.
The concurrent use of immediate-release exenatide with D-phenylalanine derivatives (meglitinides), 
alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors or other GLP-1 receptor agonists has 
not been studied and cannot be recommended.
Excipients
This medicinal product contains metacresol, which may cause allergic reactions.
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium per dose, i.e. essentially “sodium-free”.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The effect of immediate-release exenatide to slow gastric emptying may reduce the extent and rate of 
absorption of orally administered medicinal products. Patients receiving medicinal products of either a 
narrow therapeutic ratio or medicinal products that require careful clinical monitoring should be 
followed closely. These medicinal products should be taken in a standardised way in relation to 
immediate-release exenatide injection. If such medicinal products are to be administered with food, 
patients should be advised to, if possible, take them with a meal when immediate-release exenatide is 
not administered. 
For oral medicinal products that are particularly dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, 
such as antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those medicinal products at least 1 hour before 
immediate-release exenatide injection. 
Gastroresistant formulations containing substances sensitive for degradation in the stomach, such as 
proton pump inhibitors, should be taken at least 1 hour before or more than 4 hours after 
immediate-release exenatide injection.
Digoxin, lisinopril and warfarin
A delay in tmax of about 2 h was observed when digoxin, lisinopril or warfarin was administered 
30 min after exenatide. No clinically relevant effects on Cmax or AUC were observed. However, since 
market introduction, increased INR (International Normalized Ratio) has been reported spontaneously 
during concomitant use of warfarin and exenatide. INR should be closely monitored during initiation 
and dose increase of immediate-release exenatide therapy in patients on warfarin and/or cumarol 
derivatives (see section 4.8).
Metformin or sulphonylureas
Immediate-release exenatide is not expected to have any clinically relevant effects on the 
pharmacokinetics of metformin or sulphonylureas. Hence, no restriction in timing of intake of these 
medicinal products in relation to immediate-release exenatide injection are needed.
Paracetamol
Paracetamol was used as a model medicinal product to evaluate the effect of exenatide on gastric 
emptying. When 1000 mg paracetamol was given with 10 mcg immediate-release exenatide (0 h) and 
1 h, 2 h and 4 h after immediate-release exenatide injection, paracetamol AUCs were decreased by 
21%, 23%, 24% and 14% respectively; Cmax was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54% and 41%, respectively; 
tmax was increased from 0.6 h in the control period to 0.9 h, 4.2 h, 3.3 h, and 1.6 h, respectively. 
Paracetamol AUC, Cmax and tmax were not significantly changed when paracetamol was given 1 hour 
before immediate-release exenatide injection. No adjustment to paracetamol dosing is required based 
on these study results.
Hydroxy Methyl Glutaryl Coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase inhibitors
Lovastatin AUC and Cmax were decreased approximately 40% and 28%, respectively, and tmax was 
delayed about 4 h when immediate-release exenatide (10 mcg BID) was administered concomitantly 
5
with a single dose of lovastatin (40 mg) compared with lovastatin administered alone. In the 30-week 
placebo-controlled clinical trials, concomitant use of immediate-release exenatide and HMG CoA 
reductase inhibitors was not associated with consistent changes in lipid profiles (see section 5.1). 
Changes in LDL-C or total cholesterol are possible, however, no predetermined dose adjustment is 
required. Lipid profiles should be monitored regularly.
Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel
Administration of a combination oral contraceptive (30 mcg ethinyl estradiol plus 150 mcg 
levonorgestrel) one hour before immediate-release exenatide (10 mcg BID) did not alter the AUC, 
Cmax or Cmin of either ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel. Administration of the oral contraceptive 
30 minutes after immediate-release exenatide did not affect AUC but resulted in a reduction of the 
Cmax of ethinyl estradiol by 45%, and Cmax of levonorgestrel by 27-41%, and a delay in tmax by 2-4 h 
due to delayed gastric emptying. The reduction in Cmax is of limited clinical relevance and no 
adjustment of dosing of oral contraceptives is required.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential
If a patient wishes to become pregnant, or pregnancy occurs, treatment with exenatide should be 
discontinued.
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of exenatide in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Exenatide 
should not be used during pregnancy and the use of insulin is recommended.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether exenatide is excreted in human milk. Exenatide should not be used if 
breast-feeding.
Fertility
No fertility studies in humans have been conducted.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Exenatide has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. When exenatide is used in 
combination with a sulphonylurea or a basal insulin, patients should be advised to take precautions to 
avoid hypoglycaemia while driving and using machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most frequent adverse reactions were mainly gastrointestinal related (nausea, vomiting and 
diarrhoea). The most frequently reported single adverse reaction was nausea which was associated 
with the initiation of treatment and decreased over time. Patients may experience hypoglycaemia when 
immediate-release exenatide is used with a sulphonylurea. Most adverse reactions associated with 
immediate-release exenatide were mild to moderate in intensity.
Since immediate-release exenatide has been marketed, acute pancreatitis has been reported with a 
frequency not known and acute renal failure has been reported uncommonly (see section 4.4).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 1 lists adverse reactions reported of immediate-release exenatide from clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports (not observed in clinical trials, frequency not known).
6
In clinical trials, background therapies included metformin, a sulphonylurea, a thiazolidinedione, or a 
combination of oral glucose-lowering medicinal products.
The reactions are listed below as MedDRA preferred term by system organ class and absolute 
frequency. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to  1/10), 
uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data).
Table 1: Adverse reactions of immediate-release exenatide identified from clinical trials and 
spontaneous reports
System organ class 
/adverse reaction terms
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders
Drug-induced 
thrombocytopenia
Hepatobiliary disorders
Cholecystitis
Cholelithiasis
Immune system 
disorders
Anaphylactic reaction
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
Hypoglycaemia (with 
metformin and a 
sulphonylurea)2
Hypoglycaemia (with a 
sulphonylurea)
Decreased appetite
Dehydration, generally 
associated with nausea, 
vomiting and/or 
diarrhoea.
Nervous system 
disorders
Headache2
Dizziness
Dysgeusia
Somnolence
Frequency of occurrence
Very 
common
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not 
known
X3
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
7
System organ class 
/adverse reaction terms
Frequency of occurrence
Very 
common
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not 
known
X3
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Intestinal obstruction
Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhoea
Dyspepsia
Abdominal pain
Gastroesophageal reflux 
disease
Abdominal distension
Acute pancreatitis (see 
section 4.4) 
Eructation
Constipation
Flatulence
Delayed gastric emptying
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Hyperhidrosis2
Alopecia 
Macular and papular rash
Pruritus, and/ or urticaria
Angioneurotic oedema
Renal and urinary 
disorders
Altered renal function, 
including acute renal 
failure, worsened chronic 
renal failure, renal 
impairment, increased 
serum creatinine 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions
Feeling jittery
Asthenia 2
Injection site reactions
Investigations
Weight decreased
International normalised 
ratio increased with 
concomitant warfarin, 
some reports associated 
with bleeding
1 Rate based on immediate-release exenatide completed long-term efficacy and safety studies n=5763
total (patients on sulphonylurea n=2971).
2 In insulin-comparator controlled studies in which metformin and a sulphonylurea were concomitant 
medicinal products, the incidence for these adverse reactions was similar for insulin- and 
immediate-release exenatide-treated patients.
3 Spontaneous reports data (unknown denominator)
X1
X1
X1
X1
X1
X3
X3
X3
8
When immediate-release exenatide was used in combination with basal insulin therapy the incidence 
and types of other adverse events observed were similar to those seen in the controlled clinical trials 
with exenatide as monotherapy, with metformin and/or sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione, with or 
without metformin.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Drug-induced thrombocytopenia 
Drug-induced thrombocytopenia (DITP) with exenatide-dependent anti-platelet antibodies has been 
reported in the postmarketing setting. DITP is an immune-mediated reaction that is caused by drug-
dependent platelet-reactive antibodies. These antibodies cause destruction of platelets in the presence 
of the sensitizing drug. 
Hypoglycaemia
In studies in patients treated with immediate-release exenatide and a sulphonylurea (with or without 
metformin), the incidence of hypoglycaemia was increased compared to placebo (23.5% and 25.2% 
versus 12.6% and 3.3%) and appeared to be dependent on the doses of both immediate-release 
exenatide and the sulphonylurea. 
There were no clinically relevant differences in incidence or severity of hypoglycaemia with exenatide 
compared to placebo, in combination with a thiazolidinedione, with or without metformin. 
Hypoglycaemia was reported in 11% and 7% of patients treated with exenatide and placebo 
respectively.
Most episodes of hypoglycaemia were mild to moderate in intensity, and resolved with oral 
administration of carbohydrate.
In a 30-week study, when immediate-release exenatide or placebo was added to existing basal insulin 
therapy (insulin glargine), the dose of basal insulin was decreased by 20% in patients with an HbA1c
≤ 8.0%, per protocol design in order to minimize the risk of hypoglycaemia. Both treatment arms were 
titrated to achieve target fasting plasma glucose levels (see section 5.1). There were no clinically 
significant differences in the incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes in the immediate-release exenatide
compared to the placebo group (25% and 29% respectively). There were no episodes of major 
hypoglycaemia in the immediate-release exenatide arm.
In a 24-week study, where either insulin lispro protamine suspension or insulin glargine was added to 
existing therapy of immediate-release exenatide and metformin or metformin plus thiazolidinedione 
the incidence of patients with at least one minor hypoglycaemic episode was 18% and 9% respectively 
and one patient reported major hypoglycaemia. In patients where existing therapy also included a 
sulphonylurea the incidence of patients with at least one minor hypoglycaemic episode was 48% and 
54% respectively and one patient reported major hypoglycaemia.
Nausea
The most frequently reported adverse reaction was nausea. In patients treated with 5 mcg or 10 mcg 
immediate-release exenatide, 36% reported at least one episode of nausea. Most episodes of nausea 
were mild to moderate and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion. With continued therapy, the 
frequency and severity decreased in most patients who initially experienced nausea. 
The incidence of withdrawal due to adverse events was 8% for immediate-release exenatide-treated 
patients, 3% for placebo-treated and 1% for insulin-treated patients in the long-term controlled trials 
(16 weeks or longer). The most common adverse events leading to withdrawal for immediate-release 
exenatide-treated patients were nausea (4% of patients) and vomiting (1%). For placebo-treated or 
insulin-treated patients, < 1% withdrew due to nausea or vomiting. 
Immediate-release exenatide-treated patients in the open-label extension studies at 82 weeks 
experienced similar types of adverse events observed in the controlled trials.
9
Injection site reactions
Injection site reactions have been reported in approximately 5.1% of subjects receiving 
immediate-release exenatide in long-term (16 weeks or longer) controlled trials. These reactions have 
usually been mild and usually did not result in discontinuation of immediate-release exenatide.
Immunogenicity
Consistent with the potentially immunogenic properties of protein and peptide pharmaceuticals, 
patients may develop anti-exenatide antibodies following treatment with immediate-release exenatide. 
In most patients who develop antibodies, antibody titres diminish over time and remain low through 
82 weeks.
Overall, the percentage of antibody positive patients was consistent across clinical trials. Patients who 
develop antibodies to exenatide tend to have more injection site reactions (for example: redness of 
skin and itching), but otherwise similar rates and types of adverse events as those with no anti-
exenatide antibodies. In the three placebo-controlled trials (n=963) 38% of patients had low titre 
anti-exenatide antibodies at 30 weeks. For this group, the level of glycaemic control (HbA1c) was 
generally comparable to that observed in those without antibody titres. An additional 6% of patients 
had higher titre antibodies at 30 weeks. About half of this 6% (3% of the total patients given 
immediate-release exenatide in the controlled studies), had no apparent glycaemic response to 
immediate-release exenatide. In three insulin-comparator controlled trials (n=790) comparable 
efficacy and adverse events were observed in immediate-release exenatide-treated patients regardless 
of antibody titre. 
Examination of antibody-positive specimens from one long-term uncontrolled study revealed no 
significant cross-reactivity with similar endogenous peptides (glucagon or GLP-1).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Signs and symptoms of overdose may include severe nausea, severe vomiting and rapidly declining 
blood glucose concentrations. In the event of overdose, appropriate supportive treatment (possibly 
given parenterally) should be initiated according to the patient’s clinical signs and symptoms.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogues, ATC code: A10BJ01.
Mechanism of action
Exenatide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist that exhibits several 
antihyperglycaemic actions of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1). The amino acid sequence of 
exenatide partially overlaps that of human GLP-1. Exenatide has been shown to bind to and activate 
the known human GLP-1 receptor in vitro, its mechanism of action mediated by cyclic AMP and/or 
other intracellular signalling pathways.
Exenatide increases, on a glucose-dependent basis, the secretion of insulin from pancreatic beta cells. 
As blood glucose concentrations decrease, insulin secretion subsides. When exenatide was used in 
combination with metformin alone, no increase in the incidence of hypoglycaemia was observed over 
that of placebo in combination with metformin which may be due to this glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic mechanism (see section 4.4).
10
Exenatide suppresses glucagon secretion which is known to be inappropriately elevated in type 2 
diabetes. Lower glucagon concentrations lead to decreased hepatic glucose output. However, 
exenatide does not impair the normal glucagon response and other hormone responses to 
hypoglycaemia.
Exenatide slows gastric emptying thereby reducing the rate at which meal-derived glucose appears in 
the circulation.
Pharmacodynamic effects
Immediate-release exenatide improves glycaemic control through the immediate and sustained effects 
of lowering both postprandial and fasting glucose concentrations in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Studies of immediate-release exenatide with metformin, a sulphonylurea or both as background 
therapy
The clinical studies comprised 3945 subjects (2997 treated with exenatide), 56% men and 44% 
women, 319 subjects (230 treated with exenatide) were ≥ 70 years of age and 34 subjects (27 treated 
with exenatide) were ≥ 75 years of age.
Immediate-release exenatide reduced HbA1c and body weight in patients treated for 30 weeks in three 
placebo-controlled studies, whether the immediate-release exenatide was added to metformin, a 
sulphonylurea or a combination of both. These reductions in HbA1c were generally observed at 
12 weeks after initiation of treatment. See Table 2. The reduction in HbA1c was sustained and the 
weight loss continued for at least 82 weeks in the subset of 10 mcg BID patients completing both the 
placebo-controlled studies and the uncontrolled study extensions (n=137).
Table 2: Combined results of the 30-week placebo-controlled studies (intent to treat patients)
Placebo
Immediate-release 
exenatide 5 mcg BID
N
Baseline HbA1c (%)
HbA1c (%) change from 
base line
Proportion of patients 
(%) achieving HbA1c
≤ 7% 
Proportion of patients 
(%) achieving HbA1c
≤ 7% (patients 
completing studies)
Baseline weight (kg)
Change of weight from 
baseline (kg)
483
8.48
0.08
7.9
10.0
99.26
-0.65
480
8.42
-0.59
25.3
29.6
97.10
-1.41
Immediate-release 
exenatide 10 mcg 
BID
483
8.45
-0.89
33.6
38.5
98.11
-1.91
In insulin-comparator studies immediate-release exenatide (5 mcg BID for 4 weeks, followed by 
10 mcg BID) in combination with metformin and sulphonylurea significantly (statistically and 
clinically) improved glycaemic control, as measured by decrease in HbA1c. This treatment effect was 
comparable to that of insulin glargine in a 26-week study (mean insulin dose 24.9 IU/day, range 4-95 
IU/day, at the end of study) and biphasic insulin aspart in a 52-week study (mean insulin dose 24.4 
IU/day, range 3-78 IU/day, at the end of study). Immediate-release exenatide lowered HbA1c from 
8.21 (n=228) and 8.6% (n=222) by 1.13 and 1.01% while insulin glargine lowered from 8.24 (n=227) 
by 1.10% and biphasic insulin aspart from 8.67 (n=224) by 0.86%. Weight loss of 2.3 kg (2.6%) was 
achieved with immediate-release exenatide in the 26-week study and a loss of 2.5 kg (2.7%) in a 
11
52-week study whereas treatment with insulin was associated with weight gain. Treatment differences 
(immediate-release exenatide minus comparator) were -4.1 kg in the 26-week study and –5.4 kg in the 
52-week study. Seven-point self-monitored blood glucose profiles (before and after meals and at 3 am) 
demonstrated significantly reduced glucose values compared to insulin in the postprandial periods 
after immediate-release exenatide injection. Premeal blood glucose concentrations were generally 
lower in patients taking insulin compared to immediate-release exenatide. Mean daily blood glucose 
values were similar between immediate-release exenatide and insulin. In these studies the incidence of 
hypoglycaemia was similar for immediate-release exenatide and insulin treatment.
Studies of immediate-release exenatide with metformin, a thiazolidinedione or both as background 
therapy
Two placebo-controlled studies were conducted: one of 16 and one of 26 weeks duration, with 121 
and 111 immediate-release exenatide and 112 and 54 placebo treated patients respectively, added to 
existing thiazolidinedione treatment, with or without metformin. Of the immediate-release exenatide
patients, 12% were treated with a thiazolidinedione and immediate-release exenatide and 82% were 
treated with a thiazolidinedione, metformin and immediate-release exenatide. Immediate-release 
exenatide (5 mcg BID for 4 weeks, followed by 10 mcg BID) resulted in statistically significant 
reductions from baseline HbA1c compared to placebo (-0.7% versus +0.1%) as well as significant 
reductions in body weight (-1.5 versus 0 kg) in the 16 week study. The 26-week study showed similar 
results with statistically significant reductions from baseline HbA1c compared to placebo 
(-0.8% versus -0.1%). There was no significant difference in body weight between treatment groups in 
change from baseline to endpoint (-1.4 versus -0.8 kg).
When immediate-release exenatide was used in combination with a thiazolidinedione, the incidence of 
hypoglycaemia was similar to that of placebo in combination with a thiazolidinedione. The experience 
in patients > 65 years and in patients with impaired renal function is limited. The incidence and type of 
other adverse events observed were similar to those seen in the 30-week controlled clinical trials with 
a sulphonylurea, metformin or both.
Studies of immediate-release exenatide in combination with basal insulin 
In a 30-week study, either immediate-release exenatide (5 mcg BID for 4 weeks, followed by 10 mcg 
BID) or a placebo was added to insulin glargine (with or without metformin, pioglitazone or both). 
During the study both treatment arms titrated insulin glargine using an algorithm reflecting current 
clinical practice to a target fasting plasma glucose of approximately 5.6 mmol/L. The mean age of 
subjects was 59 years and the mean duration of diabetes was 12.3 years.
At the end of the study, immediate-release exenatide (n=137) demonstrated a statistically significant 
reduction in the HbA1c and weight compared to placebo (n=122). Immediate-release exenatide
lowered HbA1c by 1.7% from a baseline of 8.3% while placebo lowered HbA1c by 1.0% from a 
baseline of 8.5%. The proportion of patients achieving HbA1c < 7% and HbA1c ≤ 6.5% was 56% and 
42% with immediate-release exenatide and 29% and 13% with placebo. Weight loss of 1.8 kg from a 
baseline of 95 kg was observed with immediate-release exenatide whereas a weight gain of 1.0 kg 
from a baseline of 94 kg was observed with placebo.
In the immediate-release exenatide arm the insulin dose increased by 13 units/day compared to 
20 units/day on the placebo arm. Immediate-release exenatide reduced fasting serum glucose by 
1.3 mmol/L and placebo by 0.9 mmol/L. The immediate-release exenatide arm compared to placebo 
had significantly lowered postprandial blood glucose excursions at the morning meal 
(- 2.0 versus - 0.2 mmol/L) and evening meal (- 1.6 versus + 0.1 mmol/L), there was no difference 
between treatments at midday.
In a 24-week study, where either insulin lispro protamine suspension or insulin glargine was added to 
existing therapy of immediate-release exenatide and metformin, metformin and sulphonylurea or 
metformin and pioglitazone, HbA1c was lowered by 1.2% (n=170) and by 1.4% (n=167) respectively 
from a baseline of 8.2%. Weight increase of 0.2 kg was observed for patients on insulin lispro 
protamine suspension and 0.6 kg for insulin glargine treated patients from a baseline of 102 kg and 
103 kg respectively.
12
In a 30-week, open-label, active comparator-controlled, noninferiority study, the safety and efficacy of 
immediate-release exenatide (n=315) versus titrated insulin lispro three times daily (n=312) on a 
background of optimized basal insulin glargine and metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes was 
evaluated.
Following a basal insulin optimization (BIO) phase, patients with HbA1c  7.0% were randomized to 
add either immediate-release exenatide or insulin lispro to their existing regimen of insulin glargine 
and metformin. In both treatment groups, subjects continued to titrate their insulin glargine doses 
using an algorithm reflecting current clinical practice.
All patients assigned to immediate-release exenatide initially received 5 mcg BID for four weeks. 
After four weeks, their dose was increased to 10 mcg BID. Patients in the immediate-release 
exenatide-treated group with an HbA1c  8.0% at the end of the BIO phase decreased their insulin 
glargine dose by at least 10%.
Immediate-release exenatide lowered HbA1c by 1.1% from a baseline of 8.3% and insulin lispro 
lowered HbA1c by 1.1% from a baseline of 8.2% and noninferiority of immediate-release exenatide to 
titrated lispro was demonstrated. The proportion of patients achieving HbA1c < 7% was 47.9% with 
immediate-release exenatide and 42.8% with insulin lispro. Weight loss of 2.6 kg from a baseline of 
89.9 kg was observed with immediate-release exenatide whereas a weight gain of 1.9 kg from a 
baseline of 89.3 kg was observed with insulin lispro.
Fasting lipids
Immediate-release exenatide has shown no adverse effects on lipid parameters. A trend for a decrease 
in triglycerides has been observed with weight loss.
Beta-cell function 
Clinical studies with immediate-release exenatide have indicated improved beta-cell function, using 
measures such as the homeostasis model assessment for beta-cell function (HOMA-B) and the 
proinsulin to insulin ratio.
A pharmacodynamic study demonstrated in patients with type 2 diabetes (n=13) a restoration of first 
phase insulin secretion and improved second phase insulin secretion in response to an intravenous 
bolus of glucose.
Body weight
A reduction in body weight was seen in patients treated with immediate-release exenatide irrespective 
of the occurrence of nausea although the reduction was larger in the group with nausea (mean 
reduction 2.4 kg versus 1.7 kg) in the long-term controlled studies of up to 52 weeks.
Administration of exenatide has been shown to reduce food intake, due to decreased appetite and 
increased satiety.
Paediatric population
The efficacy and safety of immediate release exenatide was evaluated in a 28-week randomized, 
double-blind, placebo controlled study conducted in 120 patients aged 10 to 17 years with type 2 
diabetes who had HbA1c 6.5% to 10.5% and who were either naive to anti-diabetes agents or were 
treated with metformin alone, a sulfonylurea alone, or metformin in combination with a sulfonylurea. 
Patients received twice daily treatment with immediate release exenatide 5 µg, immediate release 
exenatide 10 µg or equivalent dose of placebo for 28 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 
change in HbA1c from baseline to 28 weeks of treatment; the treatment difference (pooled doses) from 
placebo was not statistically significant [-0.28% (95% CI: -1.01, 0.45)]. No new safety findings were 
identified in this paediatric study.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
Following subcutaneous administration to patients with type 2 diabetes, exenatide reaches median 
peak plasma concentrations in 2 h. Mean peak exenatide concentration (Cmax) was 211 pg/mL and 
13
overall mean area under the curve (AUC0-inf) was 1036 pg h/mL following subcutaneous 
administration of a 10 mcg dose of exenatide. Exenatide exposure increased proportionally over the 
therapeutic dose range of 5 mcg to 10 mcg. Similar exposure is achieved with subcutaneous 
administration of exenatide in the abdomen, thigh, or arm.
Distribution
The mean apparent volume of distribution of exenatide following subcutaneous administration of a 
single dose of exenatide is 28 L.
Biotransformation and elimination
Nonclinical studies have shown that exenatide is predominantly eliminated by glomerular filtration 
with subsequent proteolytic degradation. In clinical studies the mean apparent clearance of exenatide 
is 9 L/h and the mean terminal half-life is 2.4 h. These pharmacokinetic characteristics of exenatide 
are independent of the dose. 
Special populations
Renal impairment
In patients with mild (creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL/min) or moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance 30 to 50 mL/min), exenatide clearance was mildly reduced compared to clearance in 
individuals with normal renal function (13% reduction in mild and 36% reduction in moderate renal 
impairment). Clearance was significantly reduced by 84% in patients with end-stage renal disease 
receiving dialysis (see section 4.2).
Hepatic insufficiency
No pharmacokinetic study has been performed in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Exenatide is 
cleared primarily by the kidney, therefore hepatic dysfunction is not expected to affect blood 
concentrations of exenatide.
Gender and race
Gender and race have no clinically relevant influence on exenatide pharmacokinetics.
Elderly
Long-term controlled data in elderly are limited, but suggest no marked changes in exenatide exposure 
with increased age up to about 75 years old. In a pharmacokinetic study in patients with type 2 
diabetes, administration of exenatide (10 mcg) resulted in a mean increase of exenatide AUC by 36% 
in 15 elderly subjects aged 75 to 85 years compared to 15 subjects aged 45 to 65 years likely related to 
reduced renal function in the older age group (see section 4.2).
Paediatric population
In a single-dose pharmacokinetic study in 13 patients with type 2 diabetes and between the ages of 12 
and 16 years, administration of exenatide (5 mcg) resulted in slightly lower mean AUC (16% lower) 
and Cmax (25% lower) compared to those observed in adults.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazards for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeat-dose toxicity, or genotoxicity.
In female rats given exenatide for 2 years, an increased incidence of benign thyroid C-cell adenomas 
was observed at the highest dose, 250 mcg/kg/day, a dose that produced an exenatide plasma exposure 
130-fold the human clinical exposure. This incidence was not statistically significant when adjusted 
for survival. There was no tumorigenic response in male rats or either sex of mice. 
Animal studies did not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to fertility or pregnancy. High doses 
of exenatide during mid-gestation caused skeletal effects and reduced foetal growth in mice and 
reduced foetal growth in rabbits. Neonatal growth was reduced in mice exposed to high doses during 
late gestation and lactation.
14
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
metacresol 
mannitol
glacial acetic acid
sodium acetate trihydrate
water for injections 
6.2
Incompatibilities
In the absence of compatibility studies this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
In use pen:
30 days
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC – 8 ºC).
Do not freeze.
In use pen:
Store below 25 ºC.
The pen must not be stored with the needle attached.
Replace cap on pen in order to protect from light.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Type I glass cartridge with a (bromobutyl) rubber plunger, rubber disc, and aluminium seal. Each 
cartridge is assembled into a disposable pen-injector (pen).
5 mcg: Each pre-filled pen contains 60 doses (approximately 1.2 mL of solution).
10 mcg: Each pre-filled pen contains 60 doses (approximately 2.4 mL of solution).
Pack size of 1 and 3 pens. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Injection needles are not included.
Becton, Dickinson and Company needles are suitable to use with the Byetta pen.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling.
The patient should be instructed to discard the needle after each injection. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
15
Instructions for use
Byetta is for use by one person only. 
The instructions for using the pen, included with the leaflet, must be followed carefully. 
The pen must not be stored with the needle attached.
Byetta should not be used if particles appear or if the solution is cloudy and/or coloured.
Do not use Byetta if it has been frozen.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/06/362/001 –4
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 20 November 2006
Date of latest renewal: 22 July 2016
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
16
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
C. OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
D. CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
17
A. MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release
AstraZeneca AB
Karlebyhusentrén Astraallén
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
 Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
 Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
18
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
19
A. LABELLING
20
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Byetta 5 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
exenatide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each dose contains 5 micrograms exenatide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Mannitol, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, water for injections.
Also contains metacresol. See package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for injection
1 pen (60 doses)
3 pens (3 x 60 doses)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Twice daily
Read the package leaflet and pen user manual before use.
Subcutaneous use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Discard pen 30 days after first use.
21
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Once in use: Store below 25 ºC for 30 days.
Do not store with needle attached.
Recap pen to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/06/362/001 
EU/1/06/362/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
byetta 5
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
22
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN 
NN
23
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Byetta 5 mcg injection
exenatide
Subcutaneous use
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
60 doses (1.2 mL)
6.
OTHER
AstraZeneca AB
24
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
exenatide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each dose contains 10 micrograms exenatide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Mannitol, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, water for injections.
Also contains metacresol. See package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Solution for injection
1 pen (60 doses)
3 pens (3 x 60 doses)
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Twice daily
Read the package leaflet and pen user manual before use.
Subcutaneous use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Discard pen 30 days after first use.
25
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Do not freeze.
Once in use: Store below 25 ºC for 30 days. Do not store with needle attached.
Recap pen to protect from light.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/06/362/003 
EU/1/06/362/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
byetta 10
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN
26
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Byetta 10 mcg injection
exenatide
Subcutaneous use
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
60 doses (2.4 mL)
6.
OTHER
AstraZeneca AB
27
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
28
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Byetta 5 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
exenatide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Byetta is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you use Byetta 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Byetta
Possible side effects
How to store Byetta
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Byetta is and what it is used for
Byetta contains the active substance exenatide. It is an injectable medicine used to improve blood 
sugar control in adults with type 2 (non-insulin dependent) diabetes mellitus.
Byetta is used with other diabetic medicines called metformin, sulphonylureas, thiazolidinediones and 
basal or long acting insulins. Your doctor is now prescribing Byetta as an additional medicine to help 
control your blood sugar. Continue to follow your food and exercise plan.
You have diabetes because your body does not make enough insulin to control the level of sugar in 
your blood or if your body is not able to use the insulin properly. The medicine in Byetta helps your 
body to increase the production of insulin when your blood sugar is high. 
2. What you need to know before you use Byetta
Do not use Byetta:
-
If you are allergic to exenatide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse before using Byetta about the following:
-
Using this medicine in combination with a sulphonylurea, as low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia) 
can occur. Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse if you are not sure if any of your other 
medicines contain a sulphonylurea.
If you have type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis (a dangerous condition that can occur in 
diabetes), as you should not use this medicine.
-
29
-
-
-
-
-
How to inject this medicine. It should be injected under the skin and not into a vein or into the 
muscle. 
If you have severe problems with slow stomach emptying or food digestion, as the use of this 
medicine is not recommended. The active substance in this medicine slows stomach emptying so 
food passes more slowly through your stomach.
If you have ever had inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) (see section 4).
If you lose weight too quickly (more than 1.5 kg per week) talk to your doctor about it since this 
may cause problems such as gallstones.
If you have severe kidney disease or you are on dialysis, as the use of this medicine is not 
recommended. There is little experience with this medicine in patients with kidney problems
Byetta is not an insulin and should therefore not be used as a substitute for insulin. 
Children and adolescents
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents less than 18 years as there is no experience with 
this medicine in this age group.
Other medicines and Byetta
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines, particularly:
-
medicines that are used to treat type 2 diabetes that work like Byetta (e.g. liraglutide and 
prolonged-release exenatide), as taking these medicines with Byetta is not recommended.
medicines used to thin the blood (anticoagulants), e.g. warfarin, as you will require additional 
monitoring of changes in INR (measurement of blood thinning) during initiation of therapy with 
this medicine.
-
Ask your doctor if the time at which you take any tablets should be changed because this medicine 
slows stomach emptying and can affect medicines that need to pass through the stomach quickly, e.g.
-
Stomach resistant tablets or capsules (e.g. medicines that reduce stomach acid (proton pump 
inhibitors)) that should not stay too long in your stomach, may need to be taken an hour before,
or four hours after this medicine.
Some antibiotics may need to be taken an hour before your Byetta injection.
For tablets that you need to take with food, it may be best if they are taken at a meal at a time 
when this medicine is not being administered.
-
-
Byetta with food
Use this medicine at any time within the 60 minutes (1 hour) before your meal. (See section 3 “How 
to use Byetta”). Do not use this medicine after your meal.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
It is not known if this medicine may harm your unborn child. If you are pregnant, think you may be 
pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this 
medicine, as it should not be used during pregnancy.
It is not known if exenatide passes into your milk. This medicine should not be used if breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines
If you use this medicine in combination with a sulphonylurea or insulin, low blood sugar 
(hypoglycaemia) can occur. Hypoglycaemia may reduce your ability to concentrate. Please keep this 
30
possible problem in mind in all situations where you might put yourself and others at risk (e.g. driving 
a car or using machines).
Byetta contains metacresol
Metacresol may cause allergic reactions.
Byetta contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially “sodium-free”.
3. How to use Byetta
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse has told you. Check 
with your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes nurse if you are not sure.
Two strengths of Byetta are available: Byetta 5 micrograms and Byetta 10 micrograms. Your doctor 
may tell you to use Byetta 5 micrograms twice a day to start with. After using Byetta 5 micrograms 
twice a day for 30 days the doctor may increase your dose to Byetta 10 micrograms twice a day. 
If you are over 70 years old or have problems with your kidneys it may take longer than 30 days to 
tolerate the Byetta 5 micrograms dose and so your doctor may not increase your dose. 
One injection of your pre-filled pen will give you your dose. Do not change your dose unless your 
doctor has told you to.
You should inject this medicine at any time within the 60 minutes (1 hour) before your morning and 
evening meals, or before your two main meals of the day, which should be about 6 hours or more
apart. Do not use this medicine after your meal.
You should inject this medicine under the skin (subcutaneous injection) of your upper leg (thigh),
stomach area (abdomen), or upper arm. If you are using Byetta and an insulin you must make two 
separate injections.
You will not need to test your sugar levels on a day-by-day basis to set the dose of Byetta. However, if 
you are also using a sulphonylurea or an insulin your doctor may tell you to check your blood sugar 
levels to adjust the dose of sulphonylurea or insulin. If you are using insulin, your doctor will tell you 
how to reduce the dose of insulin and will recommend that you monitor your blood sugar more 
frequently, in order to avoid hyperglycaemia (high blood sugar) and diabetic ketoacidosis (a 
complication of diabetes that occurs when the body is unable to break down glucose because there is 
not enough insulin).
See the accompanying Pen User Manual for instructions for using the Byetta Pen.
Your doctor or nurse must teach you how to inject Byetta before you use it for the first time.
Becton, Dickinson and Company needles are suitable to use with the Byetta pen. Injection needles are 
not included. 
Use a new injection needle for each injection and dispose of it after each use. This medicine is for you; 
never share a Byetta pen with others.
If you use more Byetta than you should
If you use more of this medicine than you should, talk to a doctor or go to a hospital right away. Using 
too much of this medicine can cause nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or symptoms of low blood sugar (see 
section 4).
31
If you forget to use Byetta
If you miss a dose of this medicine, skip that dose and use your next dose at the next prescribed time. 
Do not use an extra dose or increase the amount of your next dose to make up for the one you missed. 
If you stop using Byetta
If you feel you should stop using this medicine, consult your doctor first. If you stop using this 
medicine this can affect your blood sugar levels.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or diabetes 
nurse.
4. Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) have been reported rarely (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 
people).
You should see your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms such as




Swelling of the face, tongue or throat (angioedema)
Rashes, itching and rapid swelling of the tissues of the neck, face, mouth or throat
Difficulty to swallow
Hives and difficulties to breathe
Cases of inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) have been reported (frequency not known) in 
patients receiving this medicine. Pancreatitis can be a serious, potentially life-threatening medical 
condition. 


Tell your doctor if you have had pancreatitis, gallstones, alcoholism or very high triglycerides. 
These medical conditions can increase your chance of getting pancreatitis, or getting it again, 
whether or not you are taking this medicine.
STOP taking this medicine and contact your doctor immediately if you experience severe and 
persistent stomach pain, with or without vomiting, because you could have an inflamed 
pancreas (pancreatitis).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):

nausea, (nausea is most common when first starting this medicine, but decreases over time in 
most patients)
vomiting
diarrhoea
hypoglycaemia 



When this medicine is used with a medicine that contains a sulphonylurea or an insulin, episodes of 
low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia, generally mild to moderate) can occur very commonly. The dose of 
your sulphonylurea or insulin medicine may need to be reduced while you use this medicine. The 
signs and symptoms of low blood sugar may include headache, drowsiness, weakness, dizziness, 
confusion, irritability, hunger, fast heartbeat, sweating, and feeling jittery. Your doctor should tell you 
how to treat low blood sugar.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):



dizziness
headache
feeling jittery
32
constipation
pain in the stomach area
bloating
indigestion
itching (with or without rash)
flatulence (passing gas)
increased sweating
loss of energy and strength
heartburn
reduced appetite










This medicine may reduce your appetite, the amount of food you eat, and your weight.
If you lose weight too quickly (more than 1.5 kg per week) talk to your doctor about it since this may 
cause problems such as gallstones.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):











decreased in kidney function
dehydration, generally associated with nausea, vomiting and/or diarrhoea
unusual taste in the mouth 
burping
injection site reactions (redness)
sleepiness
hair loss
weight decreased
a delay in the emptying of the stomach
inflamed gallbladder
gallstones
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people):
         intestinal obstruction (blockage in intestine)
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data).
In addition some other side effects have been reported:
        bleeding or bruising more easily than normal due to low level of blood platelets. 
        changes in INR (measurement of blood thinning) have been reported when used together with 
warfarin.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or diabetes nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine.
5. How to store Byetta
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date, which is stated on the label and the carton after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC – 8 ºC). Once in use, keep your pen below 25 ºC for 30 days. Dispose of a 
used pen after 30 days, even if some medicine remains in the pen.
Replace the cap on the pen in order to protect from light. Do not freeze. Throw away any Byetta pen 
that has been frozen.
33
Do not use this medicine if you notice particles in the solution, or if it is cloudy or coloured.
Do not store the pen with the needle attached. If the needle is left on, medicine may leak from the pen 
or air bubbles may form in the cartridge.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. Contents of the pack and other information
What Byetta contains
-
-
-
-
-
-
The active substance is exenatide.
Two pre-filled pens are available. One to deliver doses of 5 micrograms and one 10 micrograms.
Each dose of Byetta 5 micrograms solution for injection (injection) contains 5 micrograms 
exenatide in 20 microlitre.
Each dose of Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection (injection) contains 10 micrograms 
exenatide in 40 microlitre.
Each millilitre (mL) of the solution for injection contains 0.25 milligrams (mg) of exenatide. 
The other ingredients are metacresol, (44 micrograms/dose in Byetta 5 micrograms solution for 
injection and 88 micrograms/dose in Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection), mannitol, 
glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate and water for injections (see section 2).
What Byetta looks like and contents of the pack
Byetta is a clear and colourless liquid (solution for injection) filled in a glass cartridge within a pen. 
When the pen is empty, you cannot use it again. Each pen has 60 doses to provide 30 days of twice–a–
day injections.
Byetta is available in pack sizes of 1 and 3 pre-filled pens. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
AstraZeneca AB
Karlebyhusentrén Astraallén
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 24455000
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
34
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca 
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 79 363 2222
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
España
AstraZeneca Farmacéutica Spain, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Portugal
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 434 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Ltd
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
This leaflet was last revised in 
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777 
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
35
PEN USER MANUAL
Byetta 5 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
(exenatide)
USER MANUAL CONTENTS
Section 1 – WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN
Section 2 – GETTING STARTED: FOR FIRST TIME USERS OR NEW PENS
Section 3 – ROUTINE USE: FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE SET UP THEIR PEN
Section 4 – COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS: FOR QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE PEN
Section 1. WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN
Read this section completely before you begin. Then, move on to section 2 – getting started.
Read these instructions carefully BEFORE using your Byetta pen. Also, read the Byetta Package 
leaflet that comes with the Byetta pen carton.
You need to use the pen correctly in order to get the most benefit from Byetta. Failure to follow these 
instructions completely may result in a wrong dose, a broken pen or an infection.
These instructions do not take the place of talking with your healthcare professional about 
your medical condition or your treatment. If you are having problems using your Byetta pen, 
contact your healthcare professional.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN









Byetta is injected twice a day, the pen contains enough medicine for 30 days. You do not have 
to measure any doses, the pen measures each dose for you.
DO NOT TRANSFER THE MEDICINE IN THE BYETTA PEN TO A SYRINGE.
If any part of your pen appears broken or damaged, do not use the pen.
Do not share your pen or needles as this may risk transmission of infectious agents.
This pen is not recommended for use by people who are blind or who cannot see well enough. 
Help will be needed by a person trained to use the pen.
Healthcare professionals or other caregivers should follow local or institutional policies 
regarding needle handling.
Follow the instructions for hygienic injection technique recommended by your healthcare 
professional. 
Follow Section 2 only to set up a new pen before first use.
Section 3 of this manual should be used for every injection.
ABOUT INJECTION NEEDLES
Your Byetta pen is suitable for use with Becton, Dickinson and Company pen injection needles.
Do I use a new needle for each injection?


Yes. Do not reuse needles.
Remove the needle immediately after each injection. This will help prevent leakage of Byetta, 
keep out air bubbles, reduce needle clogs, and decrease the risk of infection.
Never push the injection button on the pen unless a needle is attached.

36
How do I throw away my needles?

Throw away used needles in a puncture-resistant container or as recommended by your 
healthcare professional.
Do not throw away the pen with a needle attached.

STORING YOUR BYETTA PEN
How do I store my Byetta pen?





Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC to 8 ºC).
Do not freeze. Throw away any Byetta pen that has been frozen. 
Once in use, your Byetta pen should be kept below 25 ºC.
Replace the cap on the pen in order to protect from light.
Do not store the Byetta pen with the needle attached. If the needle is left on, medicine may leak 
from the Byetta pen or air bubbles may form in the cartridge.
Keep your pen and needles out of the sight and reach of children.
How long can I use a Byetta pen?

Use a Byetta pen for only 30 days after setting up a new pen for first use. 
Dispose of a used Byetta pen after 30 days, even if some medicine remains in the pen.
Mark the date when you first used your pen and the date 30 days later in the spaces below:

Date of first use
Date to throw away pen

Do not use Byetta after the expiry date, which is stated on the label and the carton after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last date of that month.
How do I clean my Byetta pen?


If needed, wipe the outside of the pen with a clean, damp cloth. 
White particles may appear on the outside tip of the cartridge during normal use. You may 
remove them with an alcohol wipe or alcohol swab.
Please see the accompanying Byetta Package Leaflet. For additional information, contact your 
healthcare professional.
Section 2. GETTING STARTED
Read and follow the directions in this section only after you’ve read section 1-what you need to 
know about your Byetta pen.
Set up your new pen just before you use it for the first time. Follow the New Pen Setup only once. 
For routine use, do not repeat the New Pen Setup. If you do, you will run out of Byetta before 30 
days of use.
37
BYETTA PEN PARTS
Blue Pen Cap
Cartridge
Byetta
Liquid
Label
Dose 
Window
Dose 
Knob
Injection
Button
NEEDLE PARTS
(Needles Not Included) 
DOSE WINDOW SYMBOLS
ready to pull dose knob out
ready to turn to dose position
ready to inject 5 micrograms (mcg)
Outer 
Needle 
Shield
Inner 
Needle 
Shield
Needle
Paper 
Tab
dose knob pushed in and ready to 
reset
NEW PEN SETUP – DO THIS ONE TIME ONLY
STEP A Check the Pen



Wash hands prior to use. 
Check pen label to make sure it is your 5 microgram pen.
Pull off the blue pen cap.
Check Byetta in the cartridge. The liquid should be clear, colourless, and free of particles. If it is not, 
do not use.
Note: A small air bubble in the cartridge is normal
STEP B Attach the Needle


Remove paper tab from outer needle shield.
Push outer needle shield containing the needle straight onto the pen, then screw needle on until
secure.
38

Pull off outer needle shield. Do not throw away. The outer needle shield will be used when you 
are removing the needle from the pen after the injection.

Pull off inner needle shield and throw away. A small drop of liquid may appear. This is normal.
STEP C Dial the Dose

Check that the
is in the dose window. If not, turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Pull dose knob out until it stops and the 
is in the dose window. 

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops at 
the centre of the dose window.
. Make sure that the 5 with the line under it is in
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob clockwise to the 
number 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
, see Commonly Asked Questions, 
39
STEP D Prepare the Pen

Point the needle of the pen up and away from you.
seconds


PUSH & HOLD

Use thumb to firmly push the injection button in until it stops, then continue holding the 
injection button in while slowly counting to 5.
If you do not see a stream or several drops come from the needle tip, repeat Steps C & D. 
Pen preparation is complete when the 
seen a stream or several drops come from the needle tip.
is in the centre of the dose window AND you have 
Note: If you do not see liquid after 4 times, see Commonly Asked Questions, number 3, in Section 4 
of this user manual.
STEP E Complete New Pen Setup




Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
New Pen Setup is now done. Do not repeat Section 2 for routine use, if you do, you will run out 
of Byetta before 30 days of use.
You are now ready for your first dose of Byetta.
Go to Section 3, Step 3, for instructions on how to inject your first routine dose.
is in the dose window. 
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob, see Commonly Asked Questions, number 9, Section 4 of this 
user manual.
Section 3. ROUTINE USE
Now that you have done the New Pen Setup, follow Section 3 for all of your injections.
40
STEP 1 Check the Pen





Wash hands prior to use.
Check pen label to make sure it is your 5 microgram pen.
Pull off the blue pen cap.
Check Byetta in the cartridge. 
The liquid should be clear, colourless, and free of particles. If it is not, do not use.
Note: A small air bubble will not harm you or affect your dose.
STEP 2 Attach the Needle



Remove paper tab from outer needle shield. 
Push outer needle shield containing the needle straight onto the pen, then screw needle on until 
secure.
Pull off outer needle shield. Do not throw away. The outer needle shield will be used when you 
are removing the needle from the pen after the injection.

Pull off inner needle shield and throw away. A small drop of liquid may appear. This is normal.
Note: If the needle is not secure, you may not get your full dose.
41
STEP 3 Dial the Dose

Check that the 
is in the dose window. If not, turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Pull dose knob out until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops at 
the centre of the dose window.
. Make sure that the 5 with the line under it is in 
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob clockwise to the 
number 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
, see Commonly Asked Questions, 
STEP 4 Inject the Dose


Grip pen firmly.
Avoid tightly pinching the skin before injecting. Insert needle into skin using hygienic injection 
technique recommended by your healthcare professional.
seconds
PUSH & HOLD

Use thumb to firmly push injection button in until it stops, then continue holding the 
injection button in while slowly counting to 5 in order to get a full dose.
42



Keep the pressure on the injection button as you remove the needle from your skin, this keeps 
the medication in the cartridge clear. See Commonly Asked Question 4.
Injection is complete when the 
The pen is now ready to reset.
is in the centre of the dose window.
Note: If you see several drops of Byetta leaking from the needle after the injection, the injection 
button was not pushed in all the way. See Commonly Asked Questions, number 5, in Section 4 of 
this user manual.
STEP 5 Reset the Pen

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.
Note: This needs to be done after each injection
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob, or if your pen leaks, your full dose has not been delivered. See
Commonly Asked Questions, numbers 5 and 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
STEP 6 Remove and Dispose of the Needle




Carefully put the outer needle shield back over the needle. 
Remove the needle after each injection. This prevents the liquid from leaking out. 
Unscrew the needle.
Replace blue pen cap on pen before storage.
43

Throw away needles in a puncture-resistant container or as recommended by your healthcare 
professional.
STEP 7 Store Pen for Next Dose


Store your Byetta pen properly. (See Storing Your Byetta Pen in Section 1 of this user manual 
for more information.) 
When it is time for your next routine dose, go to Section 3, Step 1, and repeat Steps 1 - 7.
Section 4. COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. Do I need to do the New Pen Setup before every dose?


No. The New Pen Setup is done only once, just before each new pen is used for the first time.
The purpose of the setup is to make sure that your Byetta pen is ready to use for the next 30 
days. 
If you repeat the New Pen Setup before each routine dose, you will not have enough Byetta
for 30 days. The small amount of Byetta used in the New Pen Setup will not affect the 30-day 
supply of Byetta.

2. Why are there air bubbles in the cartridge?


A small air bubble is normal. It will not harm you or affect your dose.
If the pen is stored with a needle attached, air bubbles may form in the cartridge. Do not store 
the pen with the needle attached.
3. What should I do if Byetta does not come out of the needle tip after four tries during New Pen 
Setup?

Remove the needle by carefully putting the outer needle shield back over the needle. Unscrew 
and dispose of properly.
Attach a new needle and repeat New Pen Setup, Steps B – E, in Section 2 of this user manual. 
Once you see several drops or a stream of liquid coming out of the tip of the needle, the setup is 
complete. 

4. Why do I see particles in the cartridge after I finish my injection?
Particles or discolouration may appear in the cartridge after an injection. This may happen if the skin 
is pinched too tightly or if the pressure on the injection button is released before the needle is removed 
from the skin.
5. Why do I see Byetta leaking from my needle after I have finished my injection? 
It is normal for a single drop to remain on the tip of your needle after your injection is complete. If you 
see more than one drop:

You may not have received your full dose. Do not inject another dose. Consult with your 
healthcare professional about how to handle a partial dose.
To prevent this, for your next dose, firmly push and hold the injection button in and slowly 
count to 5 (see Section 3, Step 4: Inject the Dose).

6. What do the arrows mean?
The arrows mean you are ready for the next step. These arrows 
show the direction to pull or 
turn the dose knob in the next step. This symbol  means the dose knob is pushed in and the pen is 
ready to reset.
7. How can I tell when the injection is complete?
The injection is complete when:

and
You have firmly pushed the injection button in all the way until it stops
44
You have slowly counted to 5 while you are still holding the injection button in and the needle 
is still in your skin

and

The 
is in the centre of the dose window.
8. Where should I inject Byetta?
Byetta should be injected into your abdomen, thigh, or upper arm using the injection technique
recommended by your healthcare professional.
Front                      Back
9. What if I cannot pull, turn, or push the dose knob?
Check the symbol in the dose window. Follow the steps next to the matching symbol.
If 

If 

If 

is in the dose window: 
Pull the dose knob out until 
appears. 
is in the dose window and the dose knob will not turn: 
The cartridge in your Byetta pen may not have enough liquid to deliver a full dose. A small 
amount of Byetta will always remain in the cartridge. If the cartridge contains a small amount or 
looks empty, obtain a new Byetta pen.
and part of the 
are in the dose window and the dose knob cannot be pushed in: 
The dose knob was not turned all the way. Continue turning the dose knob clockwise until 
is in the centre of the dose window.
If part of 



and part of 
are in the dose window and the dose knob cannot be pushed in:
The needle may be clogged, bent, or incorrectly attached.
Attach a new needle. Make sure needle is on straight and screwed on all the way.
Firmly push the injection button in all the way. Byetta should come from needle tip.
If 



is in the dose window and the dose knob will not turn: 
The injection button was not pushed in all the way and a complete dose was not delivered. 
Consult with your healthcare professional about how to handle a partial dose.
Follow these steps to reset your pen for your next injection:
- Firmly push the injection button in all the way until it stops. Keep holding the injection button 
in and slowly count to 5. Then turn the dose knob clockwise until 
window.
- If you cannot turn the dose knob, the needle may be clogged. Replace the needle and repeat 
the step above.
For your next dose, be sure to firmly push and hold the injection button in and slowly count to 
5 before removing needle from skin.
appears in the dose 
45
Please see the accompanying Package Leaflet. For additional information contact your
healthcare professional.
46
PEN USER MANUAL
Byetta 10 micrograms solution for injection in pre-filled pen
(exenatide)
USER MANUAL CONTENTS
Section 1 – WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN
Section 2 – GETTING STARTED: FOR FIRST TIME USERS OR NEW PENS
Section 3 – ROUTINE USE: FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE SET UP THEIR PEN
Section 4 – COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS: FOR QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE PEN
Section 1. WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN
Read this section completely before you begin. Then, move on to section 2 – getting started.
Read these instructions carefully BEFORE using your Byetta pen. Also read the Byetta Package 
leaflet that comes with the Byetta pen carton.
You need to use the pen correctly in order to get the most benefit from Byetta. Failure to follow these 
instructions completely may result in a wrong dose, a broken pen or an infection.
These instructions do not take the place of talking with your healthcare professional about 
your medical condition or your treatment. If you are having problems using your Byetta pen, 
contact your healthcare professional.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR BYETTA PEN









Byetta is injected twice a day, the pen contains enough medicine for 30 days. You do not have 
to measure any doses, the pen measures each dose for you.
DO NOT TRANSFER THE MEDICINE IN THE BYETTA PEN TO A SYRINGE.
If any part of your pen appears broken or damaged, do not use the pen.
Do not share your pen or needles as this may risk transmission of infectious agents. 
This pen is not recommended for use by people who are blind or who cannot see well enough. 
Help will be needed by a person trained to use the pen.
Healthcare professionals or other caregivers should follow local or institutional policies 
regarding needle handling.
Follow the instructions for hygienic injection technique recommended by your healthcare 
professional. 
Follow Section 2 only to set up a new pen before first use.
Section 3 of this manual should be used for every injection.
ABOUT INJECTION NEEDLES
Your Byetta pen is suitable for use with Becton, Dickinson and Company pen injection needles.
Do I use a new needle for each injection?


Yes. Do not reuse needles.
Remove the needle immediately after each injection. This will help prevent leakage of Byetta, 
keep out air bubbles, reduce needle clogs, and decrease the risk of infection.
Never push the injection button on the pen unless a needle is attached.

47
How do I throw away my needles?

Throw away used needles in a puncture-resistant container or as recommended by your 
healthcare professional.
Do not throw away the pen with a needle attached.

STORING YOUR BYETTA PEN
How do I store my Byetta pen?





Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC to 8 ºC).
Do not freeze. Throw away any Byetta pen that has been frozen. 
Once in use, your Byetta pen should be kept below 25 ºC.
Replace the cap on the pen in order to protect from light.
Do not store the Byetta pen with the needle attached. If the needle is left on, medicine may leak 
from the Byetta pen or air bubbles may form in the cartridge.
Keep your pen and needles out of the sight and reach of children.
How long can I use a Byetta pen?

Use a Byetta pen for only 30 days after setting up a new pen for first use. 
Dispose of a used Byetta pen after 30 days, even if some medicine remains in the pen
Mark the date when you first used your pen and the date 30 days later in the spaces below:

Date of first use
Date to throw away pen

Do not use Byetta after the expiry date, which is stated on the label and the carton after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last date of that month.
How do I clean my Byetta pen?


If needed, wipe the outside of the pen with a clean, damp cloth. 
White particles may appear on the outside tip of the cartridge during normal use. You may 
remove them with an alcohol wipe or alcohol swab.
Please see the accompanying Byetta Package Leaflet. For additional information, contact your 
healthcare professional.
Section 2. GETTING STARTED
Read and follow the directions in this section only after you’ve read section 1-what you need to 
know about your Byetta pen.
Set up your new pen just before you use it for the first time. Follow the New Pen Setup only once. 
For routine use, do not repeat the New Pen Setup. If you do, you will run out of Byetta before 30 
days of use.
48
BYETTA PEN PARTS
Blue Pen Cap
Cartridge
Byetta
Liquid
Label
Dose 
Window
Dose 
Knob
Injection
Button
NEEDLE PARTS
(Needles Not Included) 
DOSE WINDOW SYMBOLS
Outer 
Needle 
Shield
Inner 
Needle 
Shield
Needle
Paper 
Tab
ready to pull dose knob out
ready to turn to dose position
ready to inject 10 micrograms
(mcg)
dose knob pushed in and ready to 
reset
NEW PEN SETUP – DO THIS ONE TIME ONLY
STEP A Check the Pen



Wash hands prior to use. 
Check pen label to make sure it is your 10 microgram pen.
Pull off the blue pen cap.
Check Byetta in the cartridge. The liquid should be clear, colourless, and free of particles. If it is not, 
do not use.
Note: A small air bubble in the cartridge is normal
STEP B Attach the Needle


Remove paper tab from outer needle shield.
Push outer needle shield containing the needle straight onto the pen, then screw needle on until
secure.
49

Pull off outer needle shield. Do not throw away. The outer needle shield will be used when you 
are removing the needle from the pen after the injection.

Pull off inner needle shield and throw away. A small drop of liquid may appear. This is normal.
STEP C Dial the Dose

Check that the
is in the dose window. If not, turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Pull dose knob out until it stops and the 
is in the dose window. 

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops at 
in the centre of the dose window.
. Make sure that the 10 with the line under it is 
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob clockwise to the 
number 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
, see Commonly Asked Questions, 
50
STEP D Prepare the Pen

Point the needle of the pen up and away from you.
seconds


PUSH & HOLD

Use thumb to firmly push the injection button in until it stops, then continue holding the 
injection button in while slowly counting to 5.
If you do not see a stream or several drops come from the needle tip, repeat Steps C & D. 
Pen preparation is complete when the 
seen a stream or several drops come from the needle tip.
is in the centre of the dose window AND you have 
Note: If you do not see liquid after 4 times, see Commonly Asked Questions, number 3, in Section 4
of this user manual.
STEP E Complete New Pen Setup




Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
New Pen Setup is now done. Do not repeat Section 2 for routine use, if you do, you will run out 
of Byetta before 30 days of use.
You are now ready for your first dose of Byetta.
Go to Section 3, Step 3, for instructions on how to inject your first routine dose.
is in the dose window.
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob, see Commonly Asked Questions, number 9, Section 4 of this 
user manual.
Section 3. ROUTINE USE
Now that you have done the New Pen Setup, follow Section 3 for all of your injections.
51
STEP 1 Check the Pen





Wash hands prior to use.
Check pen label to make sure it is your 10 microgram pen.
Pull off the blue pen cap.
Check Byetta in the cartridge. 
The liquid should be clear, colourless, and free of particles. If it is not, do not use.
Note: A small air bubble will not harm you or affect your dose.
STEP 2 Attach the Needle



Remove paper tab from outer needle shield. 
Push outer needle shield containing the needle straight onto the pen, then screw needle on until 
secure.
Pull off outer needle shield. Do not throw away. The outer needle shield will be used when you 
are removing the needle from the pen after the injection.

Pull off inner needle shield and throw away. A small drop of liquid may appear. This is normal.
Note: If the needle is not secure, you may not get your full dose.
52
STEP 3 Dial the Dose

Check that the 
is in the dose window. If not, turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Pull dose knob out until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops at 
in the centre of the dose window.
. Make sure that the 10 with the line under it is 
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob clockwise to the 
number 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
, see Commonly Asked Questions, 
STEP 4 Inject the Dose


Grip pen firmly.
Avoid tightly pinching the skin before injecting. Insert needle into skin using hygienic injection 
technique recommended by your healthcare professional.
seconds
PUSH & HOLD

Use thumb to firmly push injection button in until it stops, then continue holding the 
injection button in while slowly counting to 5 in order to get a full dose.
53



Keep the pressure on the injection button as you remove the needle from your skin, this keeps 
the medication in the cartridge clear. See Commonly Asked Question 4.
Injection is complete when the 
The pen is now ready to reset.
is in the centre of the dose window.
Note: If you see several drops of Byetta leaking from the needle after the injection, the injection 
button was not pushed in all the way. See Commonly Asked Questions, number 5, in Section 4 of 
this user manual.
STEP 5 Reset the Pen

Turn dose knob clockwise until it stops and the 
is in the dose window.
Note: This needs to be done after each injection
Note: If you cannot turn the dose knob, or if your pen leaks, your full dose has not been delivered. See
Commonly Asked Questions, numbers 5 and 9, in Section 4 of this user manual.
STEP 6 Remove and Dispose of the Needle




Carefully put the outer needle shield back over the needle. 
Remove the needle after each injection. This prevents the liquid from leaking out. 
Unscrew the needle.
Replace blue pen cap on pen before storage.
54

Throw away needles in a puncture-resistant container or as recommended by your healthcare 
professional.
STEP 7 Store Pen for Next Dose


Store your Byetta pen properly. (See Storing Your Byetta Pen in Section 1 of this user manual 
for more information.) 
When it is time for your next routine dose, go to Section 3, Step 1, and repeat Steps 1 - 7.
Section 4. COMMONLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. Do I need to do the New Pen Setup before every dose?


No. The New Pen Setup is done only once, just before each new pen is used for the first time.
The purpose of the setup is to make sure that your Byetta pen is ready to use for the next 30
days.
If you repeat the New Pen Setup before each routine dose, you will not have enough Byetta
for 30 days. The small amount of Byetta used in the New Pen Setup will not affect the 30-day 
supply of Byetta.

2. Why are there air bubbles in the cartridge?


A small air bubble is normal. It will not harm you or affect your dose.
If the pen is stored with a needle attached, air bubbles may form in the cartridge. Do not store 
the pen with the needle attached.
3. What should I do if Byetta does not come out of the needle tip after four tries during New Pen 
Setup?

Remove the needle by carefully putting the outer needle shield back over the needle. Unscrew 
and dispose of properly.
Attach a new needle and repeat New Pen Setup, Steps B – E, in Section 2 of this user manual. 
Once you see several drops or a stream of liquid coming out of the tip of the needle, the setup is 
complete. 

4. Why do I see particles in the cartridge after I finish my injection?
Particles or discolouration may appear in the cartridge after an injection. This may happen if the skin 
is pinched too tightly or if the pressure on the injection button is released before the needle is removed 
from the skin.
5. Why do I see Byetta leaking from my needle after I have finished my injection? 
It is normal for a single drop to remain on the tip of your needle after your injection is complete. If you 
see more than one drop:

You may not have received your full dose. Do not inject another dose. Consult with your 
healthcare professional about how to handle a partial dose.
To prevent this, for your next dose, firmly push and hold the injection button in and slowly 
count to 5 (see Section 3, Step 4: Inject the Dose).

6. What do the arrows mean?
The arrows mean you are ready for the next step. These arrows 
show the direction to pull or 
turn the dose knob in the next step. This symbol  means the dose knob is pushed in and the pen is 
ready to reset.
7. How can I tell when the injection is complete?
The injection is complete when:

and
You have firmly pushed the injection button in all the way until it stops
55
You have slowly counted to 5 while you are still holding the injection button in and the needle 
is still in your skin

and

The 
is in the centre of the dose window.
8. Where should I inject Byetta?
Byetta should be injected into your abdomen, thigh, or upper arm using the injection technique 
recommended by your healthcare professional.
Front                      Back
9. What if I cannot pull, turn, or push the dose knob?
Check the symbol in the dose window. Follow the steps next to the matching symbol.
If 

If 

If 

is in the dose window: 
Pull the dose knob out until 
appears. 
is in the dose window and the dose knob will not turn: 
The cartridge in your Byetta pen may not have enough liquid to deliver a full dose. A small 
amount of Byetta will always remain in the cartridge. If the cartridge contains a small amount or 
looks empty, obtain a new Byetta pen.
and part of the 
are in the dose window and the dose knob cannot be pushed in:
The dose knob was not turned all the way. Continue turning the dose knob clockwise until 
is in the centre of the dose window.
If part of 



and part of 
are in the dose window and the dose knob cannot be pushed in:
The needle may be clogged, bent, or incorrectly attached.
Attach a new needle. Make sure needle is on straight and screwed on all the way.
Firmly push the injection button in all the way. Byetta should come from needle tip.
If 



is in the dose window and the dose knob will not turn: 
The injection button was not pushed in all the way and a complete dose was not delivered. 
Consult with your healthcare professional about how to handle a partial dose.
Follow these steps to reset your pen for your next injection:
- Firmly push the injection button in all the way until it stops. Keep holding the injection button 
in and slowly count to 5. Then turn the dose knob clockwise until 
window.
- If you cannot turn the dose knob, the needle may be clogged. Replace the needle and repeat 
the step above.
For your next dose, be sure to firmly push and hold the injection button in and slowly count to 
5 before removing needle from skin.
appears in the dose 
56
Please see the accompanying Package Leaflet. For additional information contact your 
healthcare professional.
57
