EU RMP Part VI 
Drug Substance 
Exenatide 
Version Number 
36 
Succession Number 
1 
EUROPEAN UNION RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN (EU RMP) 
FOR EXENATIDE  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
EXENATIDE 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW 
and QWS). The RMP details important risks of BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS), 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
BYETTA and BYDUREON's (QW and QWS) risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet for BYETTA and 
BYDUREON (QW and QWS) give essential information to healthcare professionals and 
patients on how BYETTA or BYDUREON (QW and QWS) should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS) should be read in 
the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the RMP 
for BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS). 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
BYETTA is indicated for treatment of T2DM in combination with: 
  Metformin 
  SU 
  TZDs 
  Metformin and an SU 
  Metformin and a TZD 
In adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of 
these oral therapies. BYETTA is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or 
without metformin and/or pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic 
control with these agents (see the SmPC for the full indication). 
BYDUREON (QW and QWS) is indicated in patients 10 years and older and adults with type 
2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control in combination with other glucose lowering 
medicinal products, including basal insulin, when the therapy in use, together with diet and 
exercise, does not provide adequate glycaemic control (see the SmPC for the full indication). 
BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS) are medications that contain exenatide as the 
active substance and it is given as a subcutaneous injection.  
 
 
 
Further information on the evaluation of the benefits of BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and 
QWS) can be found in the EPAR on these drugs, including in the plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage for 
BYETTA: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/byetta 
BYDUREON: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/bydureon 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS), together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about the risks associated with 
BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS) are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of BYETTA and BYDUREON (QW and QWS) are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
BYETTA or BYDUREON (QW and QWS). Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
 
 
 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Pancreatic cancer 
Thyroid neoplasms 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Potential Risk: Pancreatic Cancer 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The FDA and EMA have independently evaluated the pancreatic safety 
of incretin-based drugs and published a joint assessment in the New 
England Journal of Medicine. It was concluded that while both 
agencies continue to investigate the safety signal, “assertions 
concerning a causal association between incretin-based drugs and 
pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer, as expressed in the scientific 
literature and in the media, are inconsistent with the current data” 
(Egan et al 2014). In the exenatide clinical programme (including the 
EXSCEL study), no evidence of an increased risk of pancreatic cancer 
was seen. 
Age, gender, race, cigarette smoking, obesity, diabetes, chronic 
pancreatitis, cirrhosis of the liver, occupational exposure, family 
history, infection of the stomach with the ulcer-causing bacteria 
Helicobacter pylori. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
A Pan-European Post-Authorisation Safety Study to: (1) estimate the 
IR and HR for pancreatic cancer associated with exposure to any 
exenatide formulation (BYETTA or BYDUREON/BYDUREON 
BCise), compared with exposure to non-GLP-1 RA-based GLDs, 
among patients with T2DM. (2) estimate the IR and HR for pancreatic 
cancer associated with exposure to exenatide once weekly formulation 
(BYDUREON/ BYDUREON BCise) compared with exposure to 
non-GLP-1 RA-based GLDs, among patients with T2DM 
FDA, Food and Drug Administration; EMA, European Medicines Agency; GLD, glucose-lowering drugs; GLP-1 
RAs, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists; HR, hazard ratio; IR, incidence rate; T2DM, type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. 
Important Potential Risk: Thyroid Neoplasms 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
In the nonclinical programme with exenatide QW, thyroid C-cell 
hyperplasia and neoplasia were observed at all exenatide QW dose 
levels in a rat carcinogenicity study.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Thyroid Neoplasms 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Gender, age, race, genetics, radiation exposure, diet low in iodine. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
D5551R00001 
A registry of incident cases of medullary thyroid carcinoma in adults in 
the US to characterise their medical histories and possible risk factors, 
including history of treatment with exenatide QW and other 
long-acting GLP-1 RAs. 
GLP-1 RAs, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists; QW, once weekly; US, United States. 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of exenatide. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
D5551R00015 
Study short name and title: EXCEED - A Pan-European Post-Authorisation Safety Study: 
Risk of Pancreatic Cancer Among Type 2 Diabetes Patients who Initiated Exenatide as 
Compared with those who Initiated Other non-Glucagon-Like Peptide 1 Receptor 
Agonists-based Glucose Lowering Drugs 
Purpose of the study: (1) To estimate the IR and HR for pancreatic cancer associated with 
exposure to any exenatide formulation (BYETTA or BYDUREON/BYDUREON BCise), 
compared with exposure to non-GLP-1 RA-based GLDs, among patients with T2DM. (2) To 
estimate the IR and HR for pancreatic cancer associated with exposure to exenatide 
once-weekly formulation (BYDUREON/ BYDUREON BCise) compared with exposure to 
non-GLP-1 RA-based GLDs, among patients with T2DM. 
D5551R00001 
Study short name and title: Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) Surveillance Study: A Case 
Series Registry. 
Purpose of the study: To establish a multicentre registry of incident cases of MTC in adults in 
the US in order to characterise their medical histories and possible risk factors, including 
history of treatment with exenatide QW and other long-acting GLP-1 RAs. 
 
 
 
 
