Summary of risk management plan for Byfavo (Remimazolam 
(as besylate)) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Byfavo. The RMP details important risks of 
Byfavo, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Byfavo's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Byfavo's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Byfavo should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Byfavo should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Byfavo's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Byfavo is authorised for Procedural Sedation in adults and for intravenous induction and maintenance of 
General Anaesthesia (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains Remimazolam (as besylate) as the 
active substance and it is given as i.v. injection.  
Further information about the evaluation of Byfavo’s benefits can be found in Byfavo’s EPAR, including 
in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/byfavo. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Byfavo, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Byfavo's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Byfavo is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Byfavo are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link  with  the use  of Byfavo.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with the  use of  this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Procedural Sedation 
Deep  sedation  associated  with  respiratory  depression  leading  to 
hypoxia or respiratory arrest 
Missing information 
Use during pregnancy  
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Procedural Sedation 
Deep  sedation  associated  with  respiratory  depression  leading  to  hypoxia  or  respiratory 
arrest 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
As  with  other  sedative  agents,  the  use  of  high  doses  of 
the medicine 
remimazolam or the combination of remimazolam with other drugs 
known to cause depression of the central nervous system has the 
potential to cause deep sedation, which might be associated with 
respiratory  depression  (shallow  or  slow  breathing).  Patients  who 
are deeply sedated might also lose control of their airway, and are 
exposed to a higher risk of both airway obstruction and aspiration 
(stomach contents entering the lungs and causing damage). These 
may result in serious decreases in the level of oxygen in blood and 
increases  in  carbon  dioxide  and  potential  life-threatening  events 
like stopping of breathing. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Overdosing of remimazolam or its use with other drugs known to 
cause depression of the central nervous system could lead to deep 
sedation  and  respiratory  depression  (shallow  or  slow  breathing) 
with  other  potential  serious  consequences.  Elderly  patients  and 
those  with  debilitating  diseases,  especially  of  the  respiratory 
system,  might  be  at higher  risk  to  experience  deep  sedation  and 
develop respiratory complications. 
 
Important Potential Risks 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC 20 mg section 4.4., section 4.8 and section 4.9. 
PL 20 mg section 2, section 3 and section 4. 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Missing Information 
Use during pregnancy  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPCs (50 mg and 20 mg) section 4.6. 
PLs (50 mg and 20 mg) section 2.  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of Byfavo.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Byfavo. 
 
 
 
 
