24 June 2021 
EMA/446448/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Byooviz  
International non-proprietary name: ranibizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005545/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 8 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 8 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.1.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 11 
2.1.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 11 
2.1.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 17 
2.1.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 25 
2.1.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 26 
2.1.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 26 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 27 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 27 
2.2.2. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 27 
2.2.3. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 27 
2.2.4. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 28 
2.2.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 28 
2.2.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 28 
2.2.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 28 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 29 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 29 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 29 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 41 
2.3.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 41 
2.3.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 44 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 44 
2.4.1. Main study ...................................................................................................... 44 
2.4.2. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 84 
2.4.3. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 89 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 89 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 132 
2.5.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 135 
2.6. Risk Management Plan ...................................................................................... 135 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 138 
2.8. Product information .......................................................................................... 139 
2.8.1. User consultation ........................................................................................... 139 
2.8.2. Additional monitoring ..................................................................................... 139 
2.8.3. Third party intervention during the evaluation of Byooviz ................................... 139 
3. Biosimilarity assessment ..................................................................... 139 
3.1. Comparability exercise and indications claimed .................................................... 139 
3.2. Results supporting biosimilarity .......................................................................... 140 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about biosimilarity ................................................... 143 
3.4. Discussion on biosimilarity ................................................................................. 144 
3.5. Extrapolation of safety and efficacy .................................................................... 145 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 2/146 
 
 
 
3.6. Conclusions on biosimilarity and benefit risk balance ............................................ 145 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 145 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 3/146 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Quality 
CD 
circular dichroism 
CE-SDS  
capillary electrophoresis sodium dodecyl sulfate 
CEX-HPLC 
cation exchange high performance liquid chromatography 
CQA 
DLS 
DSC 
critical quality attribute 
dynamic light scattering  
differential scanning calorimetry 
ELISA   
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
E. coli   
Escherichia Coli 
EoPCB   
end of production cell bank  
FTIR 
GMP 
ICH  
icIEF 
ITF 
fourier-transform-infrared spectroscopy 
good manufacturing practice  
 The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use  
imaged capillary isoelectric focusing 
intrinsic tryptophan fluorescence 
H/DX-MS  
hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry 
KDR 
kinase insert domain receptor  
LC-ESI-MS/MS  liquid chromatography- electrospray ionisation-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry 
MCB 
MFI 
PPQ 
QC 
master cell bank  
micro flow-imaging  
process performance qualification  
quality control 
RP-UPLC 
reversed-phase ultra-performance liquid chromatography 
SE-HPLC 
size-exclusion high performance liquid chromatography 
SEC-MALS 
size exclusion chromatography - multiangle light scattering 
SPR 
surface plasmon resonance 
SV-AUC  
sedimentation velocity analytical ultracentrifugation 
UPLC 
ultra-performance liquid chromatography 
UV 
ultraviolet 
VEGF 
vascular endothelial growth factor 
VEGFR   
vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 4/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WCB 
working cell bank  
Non-Clinical 
ADA  
AR 
CNV  
CTD  
DME  
EMA  
EU  
FDA  
GLP  
IOP  
ITV  
mg  
µg  
mL  
µL  
Anti-drug antibody  
Assessment Report 
Choroidal neovascularisation  
Common technical document  
Diabetic macular edema  
European Medicines Agency  
European Union  
Food and Drug Administration  
Good Laboratory Practice  
Intraocular pressure  
Intravitreal  
Milligram  
Microgram  
Milliliter  
Microliter  
mmHg   
Milimeter of mercury  
No.  
PD  
PK  
PT  
Number  
Pharmacodynamic(s)  
Pharmacokinetic(s)  
Prothrombin time  
SmPC    
Summary of product characteristics  
VEGF    
Vascular endothelial growth factor  
Clinical 
ADA  
AE  
AESI  
ALP  
AMD  
Anti-Drug Antibody 
Adverse Event 
Adverse Event of Special Interest 
Alkaline phosphatase  
Age-related Macular Degeneration 
ANCOVA  
Analysis of Covariance 
BCVA    
Best Corrected Visual Acuity 
BLQ  
BMI  
CI 
Below the limit of quantification 
Body Mass Index 
Confidence Interval 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 5/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Cmax  
CMH  
CNV  
CPT  
Maximum Serum Concentration 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
Choroidal Neovascularisation 
Central Point Thickness 
CRLT  
Central Retinal Lesion Thickness 
CRO  
CSR  
CST  
CV  
DA  
dL  
DME  
DR  
EMA  
EOS  
ET  
Contract Research Organisation 
Clinical Study Report 
Central Subfield Thickness 
Coefficient of Variation 
Disc Area 
Deciliter  
Diabetic Macular Edema 
Diabetic Retinopathy 
European Medicines Agency 
End of Study 
Early Termination 
ETDRS   
Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study 
EU  
FA  
FAS  
FDA  
FP  
GCP  
ICH  
IOI 
IOP  
IP  
ITV  
ITT 
European Union 
Fluorescein Angiography 
Full Analysis Set 
Food and Drug Administration 
Fundus Photography 
Good Clinical Practice 
International Council for Harmonisation 
Intraocular inflammation 
Intraocular Pressure 
Investigational Product 
Intravitreal 
Intention-to-treat 
LOCF    
Last Observation Carried Forward 
LS  
MAR  
Least Squares 
Missing-At-Random 
mCNV    
Myopic Choroidal Neovascularisation 
MedDRA  
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MI  
Multiple Imputation 
MNAR    
Missing-Not-At-Random 
MSD 
NAb  
Meso Scale Discovery Assay 
Neutralizing Antibody 
NEI VFQ-25   National Eye Institute 25-Item Visual Function Questionnaire 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 6/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OCT  
PDR  
PK  
PKS  
PPS  
PT  
RDTS 
ROP  
RVO  
SAE  
SD  
SE  
SOC  
TEAE  
US  
VA  
Optical Coherence Tomography 
Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set 
Per-Protocol Set 
Preferred Term 
Repeated-dose toxicity study 
Retinopathy of Prematurity 
Retinal Vein Occlusion 
Serious Adverse Event 
Standard Deviation 
Standard Error 
System Organ Class 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event 
United States 
Visual Acuity 
VEGF-A  
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 7/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. submitted on 10 September 2020 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Byooviz, through the centralised procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 30 January 2020. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
“In adults for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein 
occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV)” 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications for a biosimilar medicinal product. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
appropriate non-clinical and clinical data for a similar biological medicinal product. 
The chosen reference product is a Medicinal product which is authorised in accordance with Union 
provisions in force and to which biosimilarity has been demonstrated by appropriate studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Lucentis 10 mg/ml solution for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited 
Date of authorisation: 22-01-2007 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Union 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received the following Scientific advice on the development relevant for the indication 
subject to the present application: 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 8/146 
 
 
 
Date 
Reference 
SAWP co-ordinators 
23 June 2016 
EMEA/H/SA/3335/1/2016/III 
Prof. Dieter Deforce, Mr Christian 
Gartner 
13 October 2016 
EMEA/H/SA/3335/1/FU/1/2016/II 
Mr Christian Gartner, Dr Kerstin 
Wickström 
23 February 2017 
EMEA/H/SA/3335/1/FU/2/2017/III 
Dr Jens Reinhardt, Mr Christian 
Gartner 
The Scientific advice pertained to the following quality, non-clinical, and clinical aspects: 
• 
Quality 
o  battery of quality similarity tests/assessments and in vitro studies to demonstrate 
similarity between SB11 and EU Lucentis 
o  acceptability of submitting a biosimilar MAA with a specific fill-volume in a single-use vial  
• 
Non-clinical 
o  plan for in vivo pharmacodynamic and a 4-week toxicology study to support similarity 
assessment 
• 
Clinical 
intent not to conduct Phase I PK studies in healthy volunteers 
o 
o  Phase 3 study design elements supportive to the demonstration of similarity in efficacy, 
safety and immunogenicity between Byooviz and Lucentis 
o  extrapolation of efficacy and safety between Byooviz and Lucentis in other patient 
populations 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Andrea Laslop 
Co-Rapporteur: Christophe Focke 
The application was received by the EMA on 
10 September 2020 
The procedure started on 
1 October 2020 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
21 December 2020 
members on 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
21 December 2020 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
4 January 2021 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
28 January 2021 
the applicant during the meeting on 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 9/146 
 
 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
18 March 2021 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
26 April 2021 
responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
20 May 2021 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
27 May 2021 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
10 June 2021 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
24 June 2021 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Byooviz on  
A revised opinion was adopted by the CHMP in order to incorporate 
9 August 2021 
updated conclusion on the acceptability of the name and the update of 
the packaging design, on 
2.  Scientific discussion 
About the product 
Ranibizumab, the active substance of Byooviz and of its reference product Lucentis, is a recombinant 
humanised monoclonal antibody fragment composed of a light chain linked by a disulfide bond at its C-
terminus to the N-terminal segment of the heavy chain that binds to the receptor binding site of active 
forms of VEGF-A, including the biologically active, cleaved form of this molecule, VEGF-A165. VEGF-A 
has been shown to cause neovascularisation and leakage in models of ocular angiogenesis and 
vascular occlusion, and is thought to contribute to pathophysiology of neovascular (wet) age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD), visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME), proliferative 
diabetic retinopathy (PDR), visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein 
occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO), visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV), 
and retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). The binding of ranibizumab to VEGF-A prevents the interaction 
of VEGF-A with its receptors (VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2) on the surface of endothelial cells, reducing 
endothelial cell proliferation, vascular leakage, and new blood vessel formation. 
The claimed therapeutic indications are: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein occlusion 
(branch RVO or central RVO) 
• 
The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) 
The indication for the treatment of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in preterm infants – granted to 
Lucentis - is not claimed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 10/146 
 
 
 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This application concerns a centralised procedure for marketing authorisation of Byooviz (also referred 
to as “SB11”), as a biosimilar product to the European reference product Lucentis (ranibizumab). 
A comparability exercise has been performed in a stepwise approach to assess the similarity between 
Byooviz and the reference product. 
2.1.  Quality aspects 
2.1.1.  Introduction 
Byooviz has been developed as biosimilar to the reference medicinal product Lucentis (EMA product 
number EMEA/H/C/000715). The Byooviz finished product is presented as a solution for injection 
containing 2.3 mg of ranibizumab (company code SB11) as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: α,α-trehalose dihydrate, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, histidine, 
Polysorbate 20, and water for injections. 
The product is available in a Type I borosilicate glass vial with a chlorobutyl rubber stopper sealed with 
an aluminium/polypropylene flip-off cap, containing 2.3 mg of ranibizumab in 0.23 mL solution. The 
presentation also contains 1 blunt filter needle (18G x 1½″, 1.2 mm x 40 mm, 5 μm), and 1 injection 
needle (30G x ½″, 0.3 mm x 13 mm). 
2.1.2.  Active substance 
General information 
SB11 is a recombinant humanised IgG1κ isotype monoclonal antibody fragment composed of one light 
chain (214 amino acid residues) linked by a disulfide bond at its C-terminus to the 231-residue N-
terminal segment of the heavy chain with a total molecular weight of approximately 48 kDa. 
The mechanism of action of ranibizumab is to bind to vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), 
the key driver of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis, thereby inhibiting the binding of VEGF-A to its 
receptors, Flt-1 (VEGFR-1) and kinase insert domain receptor (KDR) (VEGFR-2), on the surface of 
endothelial cells. Ranibizumab neutralizes the biological function of VEGF-A by inhibiting its binding 
with both VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2. Binding of VEGF-A to its receptors leads to endothelial cell 
proliferation and neovascularisation, as well as vascular leakage, all of which are thought to contribute 
to the progression of the neovascular (wet) form of AMD, one of the leading causes of legal blindness. 
Manufacture, process controls and characterisation 
The sites employed in the manufacture of the active substance are detailed in the dossier. 
The manufacturer of the active substance is: 
Wacker Biotech GmbH 
Hans-Knöll-Straße 3  
07745 Jena  
Germany 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 11/146 
 
 
 
 
SB11 active substance is manufactured, packaged, stability tested, and quality-control tested in 
accordance with good manufacturing practice (GMP). 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
The SB11 active substance manufacturing process has been adequately described.  
The number of WCB vials used to produce one discrete batch of active substance is presented in the 
dossier. A typical batch size of SB11 active substance is adequately defined. One batch of active 
substance is filled into multiple bottles. 
The manufacturing process involves a cell culture process and a purification process. 
The active substance manufacturing process starts with thawing of a vial of the working cell bank 
which is an E. coli strain transfected with SB11 expression vector. After thawing of the working cell 
bank (WCB) vial, the culture is serially expanded in cell mass and volume for inoculation into the 
production fermenter. The cell culture fluid is subsequently purified through a series of 
chromatographic steps and filtration steps. 
The description of the manufacturing process steps includes flow charts, which comprised the 
manufacturing phase, description of the process step, critical parameters for the manufacturing 
process of SB11 and the validated maximum hold times for the different process steps.  
The ranges of critical process parameters and the routine in-process controls along with acceptance 
criteria, including controls for microbial purity and endotoxin, are described for specified steps.  
There are no reprocessing steps during the manufacture of SB11 active substance. 
The container closure system for SB11 active substance consists of plastic bottles. Adequate 
specifications have been proposed for the container closure system. 
The active substance manufacturing process is considered acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 12/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control of materials 
Sufficient information on raw materials used in the active substance manufacturing process has been 
submitted. Compendial raw materials are tested in accordance with the corresponding monograph, 
while specifications (including test methods) for non-compendial raw materials are presented. No 
materials of human or animal origin were used from cell banking up to the manufacturing process of 
SB11 active substance and finished product. In-house specifications are in place for non-compendial 
raw materials. 
Host cell line used as expression system and production cell line is well described. A two-tiered cell 
bank system was generated and characterised in accordance with ICH Guidelines Q5A and Q5D. Cell 
bank expiry is assigned. An End of production cell bank (EoPCB) was manufactured from an active 
substance process performance qualification (PPQ) batch and was further tested for characterisation. 
The limit of in vitro cell age was defined. Incubation duration for different culture step is controlled 
with pre-defined action range or operating/expected range. The different cell cultures are sufficiently 
controlled.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
A comprehensive overview of critical in-process controls and critical in-process tests performed 
throughout the SB11 active substance manufacturing process is given. Acceptable information has 
been provided on the control system in place to monitor and control the active substance process with 
regard to critical, as well as non-critical operational parameters and in-process tests.  
For the control of the SB11 active substance manufacturing process, the process controls are divided 
into controlled parameters (process inputs) and performance parameters (process outputs). For the 
input parameters, critical-, key- and non-key control parameters have been defined for each step in 
the process as well as the outputs, critical and process consistency in-process controls and in-process 
tests. The criticality is associated with impact on the defined critical quality attribute of the SB11 active 
substance.  
Controlled parameters are input variables or conditions of the manufacturing process used to control 
the manufacturing process. The input parameters have defined limits and operating ranges. 
Performance parameters are measured outputs from the process. Performance parameters indicate 
whether the process performed as expected. Outputs from one process step can be inputs to the next 
step. For the output parameters, in-process controls / tests and in-process specifications are applied. 
The definitions for the limits have been described. Specifications for all critical in-process tests of SB11 
active substance manufacturing process have been established. 
Process validation 
Process validation has been carried out on either commercial scale batches and/or suitable models. 
PPQ studies were conducted on consecutive active substance batches for verification of the process 
controls. All pre-defined acceptance criteria for process parameters and in-process controls were met. 
The additional in-process measurements conducted during the validation runs further support the claim 
for batch to batch consistency. No manufacturing deviations were encountered during the validation 
runs. The process consistency validation studies demonstrate that the commercial manufacturing 
process can produce an active substance of consistent quality. 
Clearance validation studies for chromatography resin leachate and process-related impurities were 
performed. 
The maximum number of resin cycles defined for each chromatography column were determined. The 
protocol for column performance and integrity verification at commercial scale was also provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 13/146 
 
 
 
A very brief summary of a shipping qualification of the active substance was submitted. Shipping 
system with the product can maintain product temperature while maintaining product integrity during 
the transportation.  
Manufacturing process development 
The development of the manufacturing process has been adequately described. ICH Q11 principles 
have been followed for identifying active substance CQAs and linking them to the relevant process 
inputs and operating ranges. The manufacturing process and control parameters for clinical campaign 
were developed based on the initial process development studies. After clinical manufacturing, CQAs 
were identified for product risk assessments.  
For better understanding of the impact of each process parameter on quality attributes and process 
consistency, process parameters were selected through process risk assessment, and process 
characterisation studies were performed for selected parameters. Parameter classifications and 
operating conditions for manufacturing process were established. After validation of the control 
strategy through process performance qualifications (PPQs), manufacturing process that ensures 
process consistency and product quality was established.  
The clinical data have been generated with material derived from a certain scale process whereas 
process validation has been conducted with another scale manufacturing process, which is also the 
intended commercial manufacturing scale. However, the introduced changes during upscaling are 
considered as low risk or in a few cases as medium risk, and include in most cases a tightening of 
certain process parameters. As comparability between materials derived from the different scales 
could be demonstrated, the fact that the manufacturing process of clinical material is not exactly the 
same as the manufacturing process of PPQ and commercial batches is of no major concern. 
Comparability between SB11 clinical and PPQ batches was adequately assessed. The comparability 
exercise to compare pilot, clinical and PPQ active substance batches has been conducted in accordance 
with the ICH Q5E and the results derived thereof indicate a comparable quality profile of SB11 active 
substance material produced via the different process versions.  
Characterisation 
Structural and functional characteristics of the ranibizumab molecule SB11 have been elucidated by a 
comprehensive battery of physicochemical and biological tests using sensitive and orthogonal state-of-
the art qualified analytical methods in accordance with the guideline “Specifications: Test Procedures 
and Acceptance Criteria for Biotechnological/Biological Products” (ICH Q6B). The characterisation 
studies of the structures (primary, secondary, and higher order), purity/impurities, charge variants, 
cellular potency, and binding activity. Generally, the same panel of analytics as used for the 
biosimilarity evaluation has been applied for elucidation of structural and functional characteristics.  
For most of the assays the applicant analysed several active substance batches from PPQ runs and 
several finished product batches. Since active substance and finished product have identical active 
ingredients, the characterisation data with the finished product can be considered to be equivalent. For 
a number of test items both, active substance as well as finished product batches have been used. All 
submitted data were perfectly consistent for both, all active substance and all finished product batches. 
This confirms batch to batch consistency of all investigated parameters. Also, data from active 
substance correlated with results from finished product, except for the amount of particles, which was 
lower in finished product batches. There was no significant difference regarding the experimental 
outcome between orthogonal methods. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 14/146 
 
 
 
Experimentally found molecular weights of heavy and light chains fit exactly with calculated ones, and 
the mass for whole protein with the sum of both, considering correct disulphide-bridge formation. 
Sequence identity was confirmed by the coverage of identified peptides and the expected sequence for 
active substance and finished product. Molecular weight and charge distribution of SB11 samples was 
assessed by at least two orthogonal methods each, which confirmed the experimental outcome. The 
applicant also applied a broadly used combination of methods to get insight into higher order structure 
like secondary and tertiary structure of the protein and conformational stability. This methodological 
portfolio is of importance not only to compare batch to batch consistency but also biosimilarity in 
comparison to originator. No relevant differences between active substance and finished product 
batches have been observed.  
Biological function 
Binding to and inhibition of VEGF-A induced signalling via VEGF-R has been defined as the main 
mechanism of action of SB11. Since SB11 is a Fab fragment, there might not be any other moiety of 
the molecule interacting with specific receptors and influencing its biological activity and 
pharmacological properties. VEGF-A molecules VEGF-A121, VEGF-A138, VEGF-A145, VEGF-A162, 
VEGF-A165, VEGF-A165b, VEGF-A189 and VEGF-A206 are biologically relevant in humans. It was 
shown that SB11 binds to VEGF-A165 and other isotypes, in comparison to a reference standard. An 
appropriate method was also applied to study the interaction with VEGF-A165, also in comparison to 
a reference standard. 
Potency of SB11 was analysed using an appropriate assay. Data show the same potency for active 
substance and finished product, when compared to a reference standard. The combination of used 
assays covers target-recognition and binding, target-neutralisation and inhibition of signalling through 
target-receptors as well as inhibition of cell proliferation as overall biological mechanism of action. The 
mechanism of action of SB11 was satisfactorily studied and gives insight into its biological function. 
The assays were properly setup and showed acceptable reproducibility and intermediate precision. All 
data were consistent for both, all active substance and all finished product batches which confirms 
batch to batch consistency. Also, data from active substance correlated with results from finished 
product. 
Although for a number of methods the description of the analytical method principle or details on the 
qualification status of the applied methods were not presented in the characterisation section, relevant 
information is included as part of the biosimilarity documentation. 
Process-related impurities from the upstream and downstream parts of the production process were 
assessed. Their potential impact on the patient was analysed based on reported toxicity and safety 
limits, which were the basis for the acceptance criteria proposed by the applicant. Impurity levels were 
assessed for the most important intermediates and for final products of several clinical finished product 
batches and several manufacturing consistency batches (PPQ runs). The batch results assessed by 
state-of-the-art assays demonstrated that the levels of process-related impurities are sufficiently low 
to ensure patient safety. They were consistent among active substance and clinical batches, 
manufactured by the proposed commercial manufacturing process. In addition, clearance validation 
studies have been performed to demonstrate that the SB11 manufacturing process provides adequate 
clearance of such impurities. Control and clearance strategy of process-related impurities is acceptable. 
Specification 
The specification for the active substance complies with the provisions of ICH Guideline Q6B 
(Specifications: Tests Procedures and Acceptance Criteria for Biotechnological / Biological Products) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 15/146 
 
 
 
and include the following aspects: general test, identity, quantity, biological activity, purity and 
impurity, and safety. 
During the assessment, the active substance acceptance criteria for several quality attributes were 
tightened. The requested revisions were deemed appropriate, but the applicant is recommended to re-
evaluate the active substance acceptance criteria for VEGF neutralisation assay and %HMW once a 
larger number of batches are manufactured (Recommendation). The control strategy for charge 
variants was adequately justified. Effective and reliable removal of all process-related impurities has 
been adequately demonstrated.  
Acceptance criteria of SB11 as biosimilar were established based on the combination of clinical scale 
and commercial scale active substance batch release and stability data, manufacturing capability and 
variability, analytical procedure capability and variability, results from PPQ studies, impact on finished 
product manufacturing and quality, developmental studies, compendial requirements, regulatory 
guidelines, and certificate of analysis (CoA) of Lucentis. Since the acceptance criteria of Lucentis have 
been established based on sufficient clinical trials experience, and since Lucentis has been used on 
patients for 14 years, these have been clinically justified.  
Analytical methods 
The analytical methods have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. Validation summaries as well as detailed validation reports 
have been in submitted for those methods, which are not conducted according to the Ph. Eur. 
Compendial methods are performed according to the respective Ph. Eur. monographs. The provided 
validation results indicate that the analytical methods for active substance release control are suitable 
for their intended use. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analyses data from pilot scale batches, clinical batches and PPQ active substance batches are 
presented. Overall, batches complied with the specifications set at the time of testing and thus support 
the conclusion of the applicant, that the active substance manufacturing process can perform 
effectively and reproducibly active substance material. The results are within the specifications and 
confirm consistency of the manufacturing process. 
Reference materials 
Different reference standards are established on the basis of the development stage. Sufficient 
information about the qualification of reference standards and the protocol for qualification of future 
reference standards was submitted. Updated acceptance criteria for the qualification of future 
reference standards, as well as for reference standards stability programme, have been provided. 
Stability 
The bottle used for stability studies is composed of the same material as that used for the commercial 
product. Stability testing is identical to release testing, except for some quality attributes not required 
to be monitored during stability. Long term stability data are provided generated with pilot, clinical, as 
well as PPQ batches. All these active substance batches were manufactured at Wacker Biotech GmbH 
in Jena, Germany.  
In addition, supportive stability data are presented for active substance batches stored under 
accelerated storage conditions. No stability trends were found for the tested parameters. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 16/146 
 
 
 
In line with the requirements of ICH Q5C guideline, the finally agreeable shelf life for the active 
substance depends on the long-term, real-time, real-condition stability data available from the tested 
clinical and PPQ batches. The clinical manufacturing process is representative of the proposed 
commercial manufacturing process and the comparability between clinical and PPQ batches was 
demonstrated. Hence, clinical active substance batches are considered representative to be used for 
shelf-life claim. A stability programme based on PPQ batches is still ongoing, but long-term stability 
data of pilot and clinical active substance batches support the shelf life claim. 
In conclusion, the stability results indicate that the active substance is sufficiently stable and justify the 
proposed shelf life in the proposed container. 
2.1.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Byooviz finished product (FP) is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow, sterile and 
preservative-free solution and presented as a single-use vial containing 10 mg/mL of ranibizumab for 
intravitreal injection. The detailed composition of SB11 finished product is provided in the dossier. 
The finished product is a combination of the vial (primary container) and two medical devices, 1 blunt 
filter needle (18G x 1½″, 1.2 mm x 40 mm, 5 μm), and 1 injection needle (30G x ½″, 0.3 mm x 13 
mm). 
The vials are filled with a target extractable volume, which secures the required dose amount (0.05 
mL) with potential variability as safety margin. There are no overages in the SB11 finished product 
formulation.  
A formulation comparison of Lucentis and Byooviz finished product was shown. The excipients and 
formulation of both finished product and the reference product Lucentis contain 10 mg/mL ranibizumab 
in histidine buffer, α,α-trehalose dihydrate, and polysorbate 20. All excipients are well known 
pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. There are no novel 
excipients used in the finished product formulation.  
Process changes between clinical and PPQ batches are sufficiently summarised. Process 
characterisation studies and engineering runs with engineering batches were performed to show the 
potential impact of these changes. Process characterisation studies are described in detail and are 
considered acceptable. Comparability of SB11 finished product between clinical and PPQ batches has 
been confirmed by extensive comparability studies, as discussed in the active substance section. 
Engineer run studies for finished product manufacturing steps were performed and detailed information 
was submitted. Overall, the submitted studies with engineering batches showed that the Byooviz 
finished product manufacturing steps are capable to consistent filling, stoppering and crimping 
performances for the primary packaging components (vials, stoppers and seals) to be used for the 
Byooviz vial. 
Container closure system 
The primary container closure system (Type I glass vial, a rubber stopper and an aluminium flip-off 
cap) is adequately described. All product-contacting materials comply with relevant pharmacopoeial 
requirements. Further details for the container closure system are submitted regarding the supplier 
and sterilisation method. A list of specifications for the finished product container closure system 
components was submitted. Certification for the sites performing sterilisation of the packed vials in 
accordance with the ISO standard has been provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 17/146 
 
 
 
The secondary packaging consists of two needles that are provided within the vial pack: a filter needle 
and an injection needle. Declarations of Conformity for these medical devices are provided and 
considered adequate. 
Container closure integrity has been studied during development of SB11 finished product. In order to 
assess the suitability of the finished product container closure system, extractables and leachables 
studies were conducted. The findings of the leachables study up to date identified no non-volatile 
leachables, no volatile leachables and no metallic impurities. The leachable study for the container 
closure system of SB11 finished product was not completed at the time of submission of the dossier. 
The remaining results from the leachables study should be presented when these data become 
available (Recommendation). 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Byooviz finished product is manufactured, packaged, stability tested, and quality control tested in 
accordance with good manufacturing practice (GMP).  
The manufacturer responsible for the batch release of the finished product is:  
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10, DELFT,  
2616LR,  
Netherlands 
The final composition of SB11 finished product is identical to that of SB11 active substance, no further 
compounding or dilution is performed during the finished product manufacturing process. The finished 
product batch size is adequately presented in the dossier. 
The manufacture of Byooviz finished product includes active substance thawing, bioburden reduction 
filtration and active substance pooling/mixing, sterile filtration, aseptic filling/stoppering/crimping, 
visual inspection, secondary packaging and storage. 
There are no intermediates in the Byooviz manufacturing process. The finished product manufacturing 
process and process controls are detailed. The same principles for input and output definitions applied 
for active substance are also applied for finished product process controls. For the input parameters, 
critical-, key- and non-key control parameters have been defined for each step in the process as well 
as the outputs; critical and process consistency in-process controls and in-process tests. The criticality 
is associated with impact on the defined critical quality attributes of the Byooviz finished product. The 
input parameters have defined limits and operating ranges. For the output parameters, in-process 
controls/tests and in-process specifications are applied. The definitions for the limits have been 
described.  
The finished product manufacturing process has been validated and involves the following studies: a) 
process validation of the complete manufacturing process from thawing of active substance to visual 
inspection of the final prefilled syringes, b) sterile filter validation, c) media fill qualification, d) 
shipping qualification. Deviations have been described and justified. All other PPQ batches met all 
prospective acceptance criteria and in-process controls, consistently meeting all established 
predetermined specifications. Critical process parameters and critical quality attributes were taken 
into account and validated in each step. Overall, results confirm that the process is considered well 
under control to reproducibly manufacture Byooviz finished product complying with the established 
specifications. Sterile filter validation was submitted. All acceptance criteria were met in the 
conducted studies. The results from shipping qualification studies show shipping container/system 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 18/146 
 
 
 
with the product can maintain product temperature while maintaining product integrity during the 
transportation.  
It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product 
of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate.  
Product specification  
The specification for routine control of finished product includes tests for identity, purity and impurities, 
biological activity and other general tests. 
Polysorbate 20 is an essential excipient for stabilisation of the active substance. Besides specific and/or 
unspecific binding to surfaces during processing and storage, Polysorbate loss can also occur due to 
oxidative degradation (Hvattum et al., 2012) or enzymatic hydrolysis (Dvivedi at al., 2018). The 
degradation products are mainly fatty acids, which may show reduced solubility in antibody 
formulations, and may contribute to the formation of particles. The company’s strategy for the control 
of Polysorbate 20 content in the finished product was updated during the assessment and is considered 
acceptable. 
Finished product quantitative release specifications have been justified based on tolerance intervals 
calculated from batch data of SB11 clinical and commercial finished product batches, or, for some 
quality attributes, based on acceptance criteria for the Lucentis RMP. For some quality attributes, this 
resulted in too wide limits compared to the data measured in SB11 finished product batches. Additional 
justification or revision was requested. The requested revisions were deemed appropriate, but the 
applicant is recommended to re-calculate the finished product acceptance limits for VEGF neutralisation 
assay and %HMW after having processed a larger number of finished product batches 
(Recommendation) In addition, revised stability acceptance criteria for %Acidic and %Main were 
proposed and justified However, the applicant is recommended to revise the finished product stability 
acceptance criteria when data from a larger number of finished product batches are available 
(Recommendation). 
No new product-related impurities are seen in the Byooviz finished product. As there are no new 
excipients added during the manufacture of Byooviz finished product, the impurities present or 
potentially present in Byooviz finished product are considered the same as those identified and 
controlled in Byooviz active substance.  
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-
based approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. 
Initially, no information about the risk evaluation concerning the presence of nitrosamine impurities in 
the finished product was presented and this was raised as a Major Objection. The applicant’s response 
stated that the risk evaluation was performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line 
with the “Questions and answers for marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion 
for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human 
medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and the “Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of 
Regulation EC (No) 726/2004- Nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” 
(EMA/369136/2020). Based on the information provided it is accepted that no risk was identified on 
the possible presence of nitrosamine impurities in the active substance or the related finished product. 
Therefore, no additional control measures are deemed necessary for Byooviz. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 19/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Analytical methods 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. 
The analytical procedures used for release and shelf-life testing of both Byooviz active substance and 
finished product are provided in the respective active substance section. Concerning the establishment 
of acceptance criteria reference is given to the respective part in the active substance section. The 
analytical procedures that are specific for the Byooviz finished product are extractable volume, 
container closure integrity and sterility, endotoxin, particulate matter. The analytical procedures used 
are compendial or were properly validated. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analysis data have been presented for Byooviz finished product batches. Batch analysis results 
were within the specifications and confirm consistency of the manufacturing process.  
Reference materials 
See active substance section on Refence materials. 
Stability of the product 
Based on available stability data, the shelf-life for Byooviz finished product of 30 months and storage 
conditions (Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order 
to protect from light) as stated in the SmPC are acceptable. 
Stability studies are conducted in accordance with ICH Guidelines Q1A (R2) Stability Testing of New 
Drug Substance and Products and Q5C Quality of Biotechnological Products: Stability Testing of 
Biotechnological/Biological Products Stability. The container closure system used for the stability 
studies is identical to that used for the commercial product. 
Real time/real condition stability data for pilot, clinical GMP, and PPQ batches have been provided. 
Based on demonstration of comparability between clinical and PPQ lots, the clinical lots can be 
considered representative of the future commercial finished product and, hence, can be used for the 
shelf-life claim. Furthermore, accelerated stability studies and Stress stability studies were completed 
for Byooviz finished product batches. 
The parameters tested are the same as for release, except for some quality attributes not required to 
be monitored during stability. Degradation over time was observed for some quality attributes under 
stress condition. Based on these studies, it can be concluded that Byooviz is sensitive to exposure to 
high temperatures (40°C). 
Comparability assessment between clinical/PPQ finished product batches was conducted by comparing 
stability results and trends. The stability trends of finished product batches are considered comparable 
if the long-term stability study results meet the acceptance criteria available at the time of testing. In 
addition, the trends from finished product long-term, accelerated, and stress stability studies were 
compared. 
Photostability testing was performed in line with ICH Q1B “Photostability testing of new active 
substances and medicinal products” (CPMP/ICH/279/95). Based on the study results, it can be 
concluded that Byooviz should be stored protected from light. 
Two temperature cycling studies were performed to evaluate the Byooviz finished product stability in 
the immediate pack when exposed to the extreme temperature cycling conditions for different 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 20/146 
 
 
 
exposure times. All quality attributes met the acceptance criteria over the supply chain cycled period 
and showed no significant changes. 
Additionally, a room temperature stability study was performed using aged finished product samples 
stored at long-term condition for up to the shelf-life. Analytical results within this storage time support 
storage at 30 ± 2°C for one months after 30 months storage at 2 – 8°C.  
Taken together, the provided stability data indicate that Byooviz finished product is stable when stored 
for up to 30 months at the intended storage conditions (i.e. 2 - 8°C, protected from light).  
The applicant committed to complete all ongoing stability studies of Byooviz finished product at long-
term storage conditions according to the test protocol.  
Additionally, container closure integrity testing by dye penetration is performed to demonstrate that 
the primary packaging of Byooviz finished product prevents microbial contamination of the sterile 
medicinal product. The container closure integrity test was appropriate validated. Submitted data are 
acceptable. 
Furthermore, the annual post-approval stability testing of one batch of Byooviz finished product per 
year will be performed according to GMP requirements (unless none is produced). The provided annual 
post-approval stability protocol is considered adequate. In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any 
confirmed out-of-specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to the 
Rapporteur and EMA. 
Adventitious agents 
A comprehensive strategy including raw material sourcing and testing, and facility controls, is used to 
ensure that the Byooviz active substance, and the resulting finished product, are free of adventitious 
agents. Detection of bacterial and fungal contaminants were performed on the MCB, WCB, and EoPCB. 
No contamination of the cell banks was detected. The unprocessed bulk at the end of the main culture 
is tested for bacterial and fungal contamination. The results demonstrate that no bacterial and fungal 
contamination is detected in the unprocessed bulks. Further, the sterility analysis of the finished 
product has been established to ensure no microbial growth results. 
Byooviz is produced from a genetically engineered strain of Escherichia coli (E. coli). Since bacterial E. 
coli cells do not support the replication of mammalian viruses, there is no risk from adventitious animal 
viruses during the production of the active substance. MCB as well as WCB have been adequately 
characterised and qualified to “Derivation and Characterisation of Cell Substrates Used for Production 
of Biotechnological/Biological Products” (ICH Q5D) with respect to identity, purity and safety of the cell 
substrate. For such processes, “Viral Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology Products Derived from Cell 
Lines of Human or Animal Origin” (ICH Q5A) does not apply. The used E. coli cell line is well 
characterised and poses no risk of viral contamination. The microbiology control is considered 
adequate. 
No raw materials of animal origin are used in the manufacturing of MCB and WCB. In addition, no 
animal origin material is used during the active substance and finished product manufacturing. 
Therefore, the presence of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and TSE-like agents can be 
excluded. 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal products in the European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 21/146 
 
 
 
 
GMO 
Not applicable. 
Biosimilarity  
A comprehensive biosimilarity evaluation for demonstration of a comparable quality profile of Byooviz 
and its reference medicinal product (RMP) Lucentis has been conducted. The biosimilarity evaluation 
started with a comprehensive characterisation of EU- and US-sourced Lucentis lots. As US-sourced 
Lucentis has been used as the sole comparator in the phase 3 clinical trial, a sound and robust 
scientific bridge of EU- to US-sourced Lucentis at quality level is necessary. For this reason, a three-
way comparison was performed between Byooviz, EU Lucentis, and US Lucentis. Byooviz batches were 
evaluated against similarity range based on EU Lucentis as a reference product, and similarity range 
based on US Lucentis as a clinical comparator. In addition, the comparability between EU and US 
Lucentis was demonstrated as US Lucentis lots were within the similarity range of EU Lucentis. This 
strategy is in line with the EMA Guideline on similar biological medicinal products, CHMP/437/04 Rev 1.  
EU- and US-sourced Lucentis lots have been characterised with respect to the key quality attributes. 
Tabulated summaries of the Lucentis lots including the lot numbers, source market, manufacturer and 
the expiry date of each single lot was given. The expiry dates of the characterised EU- and US-sourced 
Lucentis lots span a period of more than 3 years. 
Data derived from this characterisation work have been the basis for establishment of the biosimilarity 
ranges: A tolerance interval approach has been used for setting of the similarity ranges. The use of 
statistics for spanning the ranges in the context of a biosimilarity exercise is welcomed; the choice of 
the used statistical method has been discussed and justified. The advantages and limitations of several 
statistical tools have pointed out, the principles discussed in the draft Reflection paper on statistical 
methodology for the comparative assessment of quality attributes in drug development 
(EMA/CHMP/138502/2017) and the related meeting report of the workshop on the reflection paper 
(‘EMA/CHMP/579441/2018’) have been taken into account. At this point it should be noted that the 
raw data themselves (without any statistical analysis) have been included in the dossier as appendix to 
the biosimilarity section and clearly indicate biosimilarity. 
In a second step a side-by-side comparability study has been conducted including a subset of Lucentis 
lots. These lots have been compared against active substance batches (clinical and PPQ batches) and 
finished product batches (clinical & PPQ batches) of Byooviz. Batch information of the Lucentis lots as 
well as of the active substance and finished product batches used in the side-by-side comparability 
study is provided. Selection of the reference medicinal product lots into the confirmatory side-by-side 
comparison is based on expiry date until the completion of characterisation studies and sufficient 
quantity to cover all methods in the characterisation study. 
A large panel of standard and state-of-the-art methods has been used to characterize and compare the 
most relevant physicochemical and biological quality attributes of the SB11 molecule (Table 1).  
Table 1: Summary of analytical similarity assessment between SB11 and EU/US Lucentis 
Molecular 
parameter 
Attribute 
Primary 
structure 
Molecular Weight 
Amino acid sequencing / Primary 
sequence 
N-terminal sequence 
C-terminal sequence 
Methods for 
control and 
characterisation 
LC-MS 
LC-ESI-MS/MS 
LC-ESI-MS/MS 
Key findings 
Similar 
Primary sequences across SB11, EU and US 
Lucentis are identical 
Similar 
Similar 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 22/146 
 
 
 
Molecular 
parameter 
Attribute 
Methods for 
control and 
characterisation 
Key findings 
Similar 
Slight differences in level of oxidation and 
deamidation between SB11 and Lucentis 
but contents of oxidation and deamidation 
in SB11 very low and no statistically 
significant difference in VEGF-A binding 
activity was observed across SB11 and 
Lucentis. 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
%Monomer of one SB11 clinical finished 
product was slightly lower than EU/US 
similarity ranges, and %HMW of the same 
clinical finished product was slightly higher 
than the EU/US similarity ranges. However, 
slight difference was not considered 
significant since SE-HPLC results of the 
batch were within EU/US similarity ranges 
at the time of 1 month from the 
manufacturing date and the biological 
activities of the batch were similar to those 
of Lucentis. In addition, the relative 
contents of monomer and HMW for all lots 
of US Lucentis were within the EU similarity 
range. 
%Main of one SB11 clinical finished product 
was slightly lower than the EU/US similarity 
ranges but not considered significant since 
the %Main result of batch was within EU 
and US similarity ranges at the time of 1 
month from the manufacturing date and the 
biological activities of the batch were 
similar to those of Lucentis®. In addition, 
the %Main results for all lots of US 
Lucentis® were within the EU similarity 
range. 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Peptide mapping 
Oxidation 
Deamidation 
Acetylation and glycation 
Disulfide Bond 
Free Sulfhydryl 
Non-canonical Amino Acid 
Extinction Coefficient 
%Monomers 
Thiol-assay 
UPLC 
SEC-MALS 
%High Molecular Weights (HMW) 
species 
SE-HPLC 
%Main species 
Non-reducing CE-
SDS 
%Main1 species 
%Main2 species 
%Acidic 
%Main 
%Basic 
%Acidic 
%Main 
%Basic 
%Pre-main 
%Main 
%Post-main 
Secondary and tertiary structure – 
CD spectra 
Secondary structure 
Protein Folding 
Thermal stability / Heat-induced 
protein denaturation pattern 
Aggregates characteristics / Size 
and shape of macromolecules 
Reducing CE-SDS 
icIEF 
CEX-HPLC 
RP-UPLC 
CD spectrometry 
(far-UV, near-UV) 
FTIR 
ITF 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
DSC 
SV-AUC 
Similar 
Similar 
Purity and 
Impurities 
Charge 
Variants 
Hydrophobicity 
Higher Order 
Structure 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 23/146 
 
 
 
Molecular 
parameter 
Attribute 
Methods for 
control and 
characterisation 
Key findings 
Aggregates characteristics / Size 
and shape of macromolecules 
Protein size characterisation 
Subvisible particles 
Protein tertiary structure / 
Conformation and conformational 
dynamics 
SEC-MALS 
DLS 
MFI 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
H/DX-MS 
Similar 
Quantity 
Protein concentration 
UV/Vis at A280 
Protein concentrations for all SB11 batches 
within EU similarity range except for one 
SB11 active substance batch while one 
SB11 active substance batch and one SB11 
finished product batch were out of US 
similarity range. Two batches were out of 
the EU and/or US similarity ranges but 
slight difference was not considered 
significant as result met CoA requirement of 
Lucentis. Protein concentrations for all lots 
of US Lucentis were within the EU similarity 
range. 
Biological 
Properties 
HUVEC Anti-proliferation 
VEGF-A 165 and other VEGF-
isoform Neutralisation 
VEGF-A 165 and other VEGF-
isoforms Binding  
VEGF-A 165 Binding 
VEGF Family Binding  
anti-proliferation 
assay 
neutralisation 
assay 
ELISA 
SPR 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Similar 
Investigated physicochemical quality attributes include  
#) primary structure: Molecular weight by LC-MS; amino acid sequencing, N-terminal and C-terminal 
sequencing, peptide mapping, oxidation and deamidation, acetylation, glycation and disulfide bond 
analysis – all by LC-ESI-MS/MS; free sulfhydryl group quantification by a thiol assay; non-canonical 
amino acid analysis by UPLC; and extinction coefficient analysis by SEC-MALS,  
#) purity and impurities: %monomer and high molecular weight variants by SEC-MALS; %main peak 
by reducing and non-reducing CE-SDS,  
#) charged variants: %main, acidic and basic variants by icIEF and CEX-HPLC 
#) hydrophobicity: %pre-main, main and post-main fraction by RP-HPLC,  
#) higher order structure: Protein secondary and tertiary structure analysis by CD (Far- and Near-UV); 
protein secondary structure analysis by FTIR spectroscopy; protein folding analysis by ITF; thermal 
stability analysis by DSC; aggregates characterisation analysis by SV-AUC and SEC-MALS; protein size 
characterisation analysis by DLS; subvisible particles analysis by MFI; and protein tertiary structure 
analysis by H/DX-MS), and  
#) quantity by protein concentration by UV/Vis at A280 
Overall, the presented data on the physicochemical comparison indicate that Byooviz is structurally 
similar to its RMP Lucentis. A few minor differences seen in the SE-HPLC, non-reducing CE-SDS and in 
the quantity (in the mentioned analysis one of the included Byooviz batches was slightly outside of the 
EU similarity ranges) could be sufficiently justified and do not jeopardize the biosimilarity claim.  
The most relevant mode of action associated biological quality attributes include: 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 24/146 
 
 
 
#) a VEGF-A 165 and other VEGF-isoforms binding assay by ELISA and 
#) a VEGF-A 165 and other VEGF-isoforms neutralisation assay 
Furthermore, additional biological properties have been compared: 
#) VEGF-165 Binding and other VEGF family binding specificity using SPR  
Conclusion on similarity was done through the observation of meaningful differences based on the 
mean value and the distribution of the individual results. It is agreed that, for each additional biological 
property, no meaningful difference was observed based on the visual comparison of mean value and 
distribution of the individual results between SB11 and Lucentis.  
Finally, for the binding assays relative binding activity values as well as the EC50 and KD (M) values 
for the binding assays with their standard errors to further substantiate the conclusion that there is no 
difference between the biological activity of Byooviz and Lucentis are provided.  
In summary, also for biological activity the data available indicate a similar behaviour of Byooviz and 
Lucentis.  
Concerning the methods used for biosimilarity evaluation, tabulated summaries of the conducted 
qualification for biological assays were supplied including ELISA assays, SPR assays, HUVEC anti-
proliferation assay, VEGF-165 and other VEGF-isoform neutralisation assay. Concerning the VEGF 
family binding system suitability was evaluated by using appropriate positive controls and negative 
control. In summary, the provided qualification data support the conclusion of the applicant that each 
analytical method is suitable for the intended use to sensitively detect and quantitate potential 
differences in quality attributes among SB11, EU Lucentis and US Lucentis.  
As last step of the overall biosimilarity exercise, comparative stability studies have been conducted to 
compare the degradation profiles of Byooviz finished product with those of Lucentis. The stability 
studies include comparative stability studies under heat stress, basic stress, acidic stress, oxidative 
stress conditions and comparative photostability studies in immediate packaging. In summary, these 
comparative stress testing support the conclusion that Byooviz and Lucentis show similar degradation 
profiles supporting similarity across Byooviz, EU and US Lucentis.   
In conclusion, biosimilarity between Byooviz and the reference product Lucentis is considered 
demonstrated. In addition, EU-sourced Lucentis has a comparable quality profile with US-sourced 
Lucentis which is based on a scientifically bridge. 
2.1.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
A well-designed Module 3 within the marketing authorisation application has been presented for 
Byooviz as a biosimilar development to its reference product Lucentis.  
The manufacturing process has been described in sufficient detail. All raw and starting materials 
including the cell banks used in the manufacture of Byooviz are identified and adequate information on 
the quality and control of these materials has been provided. Also, all excipients used for the finished 
product formulation comply with the Ph. Eur. requirement. An adequate process control system, 
consisting of process input and process output parameters, is in place which ensures a consistent 
routine manufacture of Byooviz. Process validation supports the conclusion that the manufacturing 
process for active substance as well as for finished product can perform effectively and reproducibly to 
produce active substance respectively finished product meeting its predetermined specifications and 
quality attributes. The provided active substance and finished product batch analyses data support this 
conclusion. Comparability of the clinical Byooviz batches used in the clinical studies and the process 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 25/146 
 
 
 
validation batches has been demonstrated. An appropriate control strategy ensures that material of 
sufficiently high quality will enter the market. 
Regarding the biosimilarity part, a well-established and comprehensive similarity exercise has been 
conducted. As US-sourced Lucentis has been used as the sole comparator in the phase 3 clinical trial, a 
sound and robust scientific bridge of EU- to US-sourced Lucentis at quality level is necessary. For this 
reason, a three-way comparison was performed between Byooviz, EU Lucentis, and US Lucentis. A 
large panel of standard and state-of-the-art methods has been used to characterize and compare the 
most relevant physicochemical and biological quality attributes of the ranibizumab SB11 molecule. The 
presented data on the physicochemical comparison indicate that Byooviz is structurally similar to its 
reference medicinal product Lucentis. A few minor differences could be sufficiently justified and do not 
jeopardize the biosimilarity claim. Also, for biological activity the data indicate a similar behaviour of 
Byooviz and Lucentis.  
In conclusion, Byooviz can be considered: 
a) biosimilar to the RMP Lucentis at quality level, and  
b) the conclusion that EU-sourced Lucentis has a comparable quality profile with US-sourced Lucentis 
can be agreed.  
Overall, Module 3 of the Byooviz MA dossier is of adequate quality. The initially raised Major Objection 
concerning the omission of a risk evaluation concerning the presence of nitrosamine impurities in the 
product as well as the other concerns have been satisfactorily resolved.  
In summary from a quality point of view a positive CHMP opinion of the quality part can be 
recommended to the CHMP. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product, which pertain to re-evaluation of the active substance 
and finished product acceptance criteria for VEGF neutralisation assay, re-evaluation of the active 
substance and finished product acceptance criteria for %HMW, re-evaluation of the finished product 
stability acceptance criteria for %Acidic and %Main, and submission of remaining results under long-
term storage conditions from the finished product container closure system leachables/extractables 
study. These points are put forward and agreed as recommendations for future quality development.  
2.1.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.1.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation and has already received a letter of 
commitment from the applicant in this regard: 
#1: The applicant should re-evaluate the active substance and finished product acceptance criteria for 
VEGF neutralisation assay once a larger number of batches are manufactured. 
#2: The applicant should re-evaluate the active substance and finished product acceptance criteria for 
%HMW once a larger number of batches are available. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 26/146 
 
 
 
#3: The applicant should re-evaluate the finished product stability acceptance criteria for %Acidic and 
%Main when data from a larger number of finished product batches are available. 
#4: The applicant should submit the remaining results under long-term storage conditions from the 
finished product container closure system leachables/extractables study. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
SB11 has been developed as a similar biological medicinal product (biosimilar) to the reference 
medicinal product Lucentis (Novartis Europharm Limited) having ranibizumab as the active substance, 
and belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic group “monoclonal antibodies”. 
A battery of receptor-binding studies was provided as a part of the comparability exercise in order to 
assess if any differences in reactivity are present. The existing functionality in vitro assays cover all the 
relevant modes of action claimed in the indications. Assessment and discussion on these data are 
equally provided in the Quality section of this MAA. 
No in vivo PD animal studies have been performed in order to provide complementary information on 
biosimilarity in addition to the totality of data obtained (including quality, in vitro and clinical data). 
However, comparative in vivo studies of pharmacodynamic effects are generally not required for 
biosimilarity assessment. 
2.2.2.  Pharmacology 
The non-clinical programme for SB11 followed the EMA “Guideline on Similar Biological Medicinal 
Products Containing Monoclonal Antibodies: Non-clinical and Clinical Issues” 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). After extensive quality similarity studies, a series of in vitro non-
clinical studies including VEGF binding assay and cell-based assays were performed to demonstrate 
similarity in the in vitro behaviour between SB11 and EU Lucentis. There were no significant 
differences between SB11 and EU Lucentis in binding and cell-based activities. 
Details, results and discussion of the adequacy (state of the art) of the in vitro assays used, with 
particular attention to sensitivity, specificity and ability to provide evidence, that observed differences 
in performance in the in vitro assays are clinically not relevant, are all provided in the Quality section. 
Same applies for the concentration range used and the number of batches (of the reference product 
and of the biosimilar representative of the material) intended for clinical/commercial use. 
The applicant´s approach to perform comparative characterisation studies is appreciated and the 
methods chosen are state of the art. The results provided in Module 3 on similarity of structural, 
physicochemical and biological attributes between SB11 and Lucentis have been assessed in the 
quality part of this marketing authorisation application.  
2.2.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Data on the absorption, organ distribution, metabolism, excretion, pharmacokinetic drug interactions, 
and other pharmacokinetic data of a proposed biosimilar product are not required according to the 
relevant EMA guidance for biosimilars. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 27/146 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Toxicology 
During the Scientific Advice [EMA/CHMP/SAWP/403022/2016, Jun 23, 2016] it was agreed upon with 
the EMA that in vivo pharmacodynamic studies and in vivo toxicity studies for SB11 would not be 
required if the quality comparability exercise and the in vitro non-clinical studies should be considered 
satisfactory and no critical issues are identified  
Whenever biosimilarity is supported by the quality and the in-vitro comparison, in vivo studies are not 
required in the EU. In vivo studies are not considered sensitive enough to demonstrate differences 
between the originator and the biosimilar product in case they would exist.  
However, the applicant provided a GLP-compliant 4-week repeat-dose toxicity study using cynomolgus 
monkeys, to demonstrate the similarity in the toxicity profiles of SB11 and US Lucentis in support of 
the non-clinical development programme of SB11 in the context of a global authorisation (FDA 
requirements). SB11 and US Lucentis were well tolerated at dose level of 500 μg/eye to female 
cynomolgus monkeys when intermittently administered by ITV injection (both eyes) once every 2 
weeks for 4 weeks. Though the very limited number of animals used in the provided RDTS cannot be 
considered reassuring in the context of detecting slight differences, the toxicity data can be regarded 
as supportive for the comparability development of SB11. 
Studies regarding reproduction toxicology, mutagenicity and carcinogenicity were not provided for this 
MAA, as they are not required for similar biological medicinal products. 
2.2.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Considering the expected exposure, the nature of the product and the concessions of current 
guidelines, the absence of formal environmental risk assessment studies for SB11 is considered 
justified. 
Ranibizumab is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.2.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A satisfactory degree of similarity has been demonstrated for the relevant functional attributes 
(including various orthogonal in vitro functional assays). 
The relevance of the toxicity in vivo study providing complementary information on biosimilarity, in 
view of the totality of data obtained (including quality, in vitro and clinical data), is limited due to the 
insensitivity of the animal models and the setup, used for such in vivo studies. 
2.2.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall, non-clinical in vitro studies demonstrated the similarity in pharmacodynamics activity (for 
further details and assessment, please refer to the quality part of the AR). Though the data from the in 
vivo toxicity study are not required for the MAA, the toxicity profile between SB11 and Lucentis was 
evaluated and presented as supportive information, in line with the EMA’s Guideline on Similar 
Biological Medicinal Products containing Monoclonal Antibodies – Non-clinical and Clinical issues 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 28/146 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
Community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Table 2: Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Type of Study 
Study 
Identifier 
Objective of the 
Study 
Phase III 
(Comparative 
efficacy, safety, 
pharmacokinetics, 
and 
immunogenicity) 
SB11-G31- 
AMD 
(EudraCT 
No. 2017- 
000422-36) 
Primary objective: 
To demonstrate 
the equivalence of 
efficacy of SB11 
to in patients with 
neovascular age- 
related macular 
degeneration 
(AMD), in terms 
of the change 
from baseline in 
central subfield 
thickness (CST) 
at Week 4 and 
the change from 
baseline in best 
corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) at 
Week 8 
Study 
Design and 
Type of 
Control 
Randomised, 
double- 
masked, 
parallel 
group, 
multicenter 
study Active 
Control/ 
Comparator 
Dosage 
Regimen 
Number of 
Subjects 
Test 
Subjects 
Duration 
of Study 
N 
randomised 
= 705 
(SB11: 
351; 
Lucentis: 
354) 
Patients 
with 
neovascular 
AMD 
48 weeks of 
treatment 
(Last 
assessment 
was done at 
Week 52.) 
Either 0.5 
mg SB11 or 
0.5 mg 
Lucentis 
was 
administere
d in to the 
study eye 
via 
intravitreal 
(ITV) route 
every 4 
weeks up to 
Week 48 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Ranibizumab has a PK profile that is compatible with its clinical use as an intraocular agent. The 
collected PK data indicate that systemic exposure of ranibizumab following ITV administration is 
generally low (below 3 ng/mL) but quantifiable in most subjects. 
A clinical Phase I PK study was not conducted for this application, which was endorsed by the EMA 
through SA [EMA/CHMP/SAWP/403022/2016, Jun 23, 2016]. Public information of Lucentis shows that 
the serum concentrations of ranibizumab following intravitreal injection are low due to elimination on 
reaching systemic circulation from the vitreous. In this context, it is judged not meaningful to base 
biosimilarity on a dedicated PK comparison of systemic exposure due to the negligible and variable 
systemic exposure after ITV administration observed with Lucentis treatment. In addition, the conduct 
of such a study in healthy volunteers seems difficult for obvious ethical and practical reasons 
(invasiveness of intravitreal injection).  
Therefore, PK profiles between the two products were compared in the clinical Phase III Study SB11-
G31-AMD in a sub-set of patients with neovascular AMD, which is considered the most representative 
and relevant patient population. At the time, 50 patients per treatment arm were proposed to be 
investigated and the proposed approach was found to be acceptable on a high level 
(EMEA/H/SA/3335/1/2016/III). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 29/146 
 
 
 
 
 
The PK profiles of ranibizumab have been characterised in the clinical studies. The results from the 
current population PK analysis have demonstrated that the systemic exposure of ranibizumab are 
comparable in RVO, DME, and AMD patients. The PK parameter estimates were comparable across all 
indications with moderate numerical difference [Zhang et al., 2014]. 
No other clinical pharmacology studies (i.e., drug interaction studies, or studies in patients with hepatic 
or renal impairment) were conducted as these are not required for biosimilars 
[EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010].  
Table 3: Overview of the Clinical Development Plan for Evaluation of Pharmacokinetic (PK) 
and Immunogenicity Similarity/Comparability 
2.3.2.1.  Methods 
Bioanalytical methods 
Pharmacokinetics assays  
A bioanalytical method for the analysis of ranibizumab (SB11 and Lucentis) in human serum has been 
developed and validated with the aim to determine the concentration of ranibizumab (SB11 and 
Lucentis) in approximately 560 human serum samples from Samsung Bioepis Protocol Number SB11-
G31-AMD.  
The detection method to quantify the concentration of SB11 and Lucentis in human serum samples has 
been validated according to the validated bioanalytical reports and the addendums. Results obtained 
for all parameters evaluated during the pre-study validation indicate that the performance of the assay 
is acceptable for the intended purpose of concentration analysis. The analyses were within the pre-
defined run acceptance criteria and in accordance with the current Guideline on bioanalytical method 
validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009 Rev. 1 Corr. 2**). 
Five quality control (QC) samples were used to assess accuracy and precision of the method. Inter-and 
intra-precision and accuracy of calibration standards and QC samples were within the criteria.  
There was no effect from lipemia on the quantification of SB11 and Lucentis and no effect from 
haemolysis on the quantitation of SB11 and Lucentis at haemolysis levels up to 500–600 mg/dL. 
Samples demonstrating haemolysis higher than 600 mg/dL will not be analyzed due to possible 
interference. No hook effect was observed at ranibizumab concentrations up to 800000 pg/mL. No 
effect was observed on the quantitation of Lucentis and SB11 at concentrations up to 10.00 ng/mL of 
VEGF (target interference), which is considered acceptable given the usual VEFG concentrations 
observed in patients with age-related macular degeneration.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 30/146 
 
 
 
 
With regard to dilutional linearity, the ability to dilute samples originally above the upper limit of the 
calibration range was evaluated by analyzing three replicate QCs containing 800,000 pg/mL SB11 as 
64-, 256-, and 1024-fold dilutions. After some issues with two pools, data met the acceptance criteria.  
As a part of validation, sample short-term stability (freeze-thaw and room temperature) were tested. 
Low- and high-level QCs were evaluated stored in a cryofreezer (-80 °C ± 10 °C) and a freezer (-25 °C 
± 10 °C). The ranibizumab concentration in human serum was stable for up to six freezing (–80°C) / 
thawing (RT) cycles and 24 hours at room temperature. In the method validation report Addendum 2, 
the long-term stability of ranibizumab in SB11 and US Lucentis has been investigated at -25°C and -
80°C and stability is demonstrated for up to 367 days at -25°C and acceptable for up to 553 days at -
80°C. 
Analysis of human serum samples began on 08 August 2018 and was completed on 31 December 
2019. Samples were stored for a maximum of 426 days between sample collection and analysis. All 
samples were analyzed within the 553 days demonstrating long-term storage stability in human serum 
at -80 °C. 
Parallelism was not tested, but was evaluated using the dilution linearity and selectivity as surrogate 
parameters during pre-study validation. 
The incurred sample analysis is applicable to ligand binding assays and has been correctly carried out. 
To demonstrate reproducible quantitation of incurred subject samples, approximately 10% of the 
project samples were re-assayed (9.63%) and the results of the incurred sample repeats met the 
acceptance criteria (total % ISR samples pass: 100%). The concentrations obtained for the initial 
analysis and the concentration obtained by reanalysis are therefore within 30% of their mean for at 
least 67% of the repeats (100%) as required in the guideline on bioanalytical method validation. These 
results indicate that the method is suitable for use. 
In summary, the method is judged applicable to quantitation of ranibizumab (SB11 and Lucentis) 
within a nominal concentration range. The PK assay is a validated, reliable, and sufficiently sensitive 
bioanalytical method to be able to detect picogram/mL concentrations of ranibizumab in serum. The 
validation of this assay has been conducted in accordance with the EMA Guideline on bioanalytical 
method validation, EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009 Rev1 Corr. 2, and consists of a core validation and 
additionally conducted validation studies for analyte stability, selectivity, and target interference.  The 
results derived from these validation activities principally support the conclusion that the assay is 
reliable and suitable for measuring SB11 and Lucentis concentration in human serum samples. A few 
minor concerns related to the additionally conducted validation could be solved; consequently, the PK 
assay is considered suitable for analysis of ranibizumab (SB11 and Lucentis) in human serum. 
Immunogenicity assays 
 
Validity of analytical portfolio 
The applicant presented a “one-assay” format, MSD-ECL based multi-tiered approach for detection and 
characterisation of anti-drug antibodies in human plasma matrix. After a screening assay, positive 
samples were confirmed in a competition assay, and then investigated for neutralizing properties and 
titers. Both screening and confirmation assays are bridge assays: they take advantage of IgG bivalent 
structure, where the immune response links the biotinylated drug as capture reagent to its sulfo-
labelled version as detection reagent. Advantages of this commonly accepted assay format are its 
sensitivity and its wide dynamic range. Furthermore, both the originator and the biosimilar can be used 
and investigated head to head, with exactly the same reagents. This reduces bias and complexity. On 
the other hand, in this assay format IgG4 subclass antibodies might get under-, and IgM’s over-
represented. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 31/146 
 
 
 
It should be noted that the application scheme of SB11 is an immunogenic one, and consists of up to 6 
monthly applications. On the other hand, SB11’s originator showed a low immunogenic potential, and 
the risk of an induced immune response is rather low (low risk of anaphylaxis since applied doses are 
low (0.5 mg per dose), and SB11 not being an endogenous essential protein). The major risk of ADAs 
might be neutralisation of the active compound. 
Assay setup: The applicant used the most authentically matrix of 50 individual serum samples from 
drug naïve AMD patients. 6 experimental runs were assessed by 2 operators at three days (6 
independent panels (=individual measurements)). The same lot of negative control (NC) pool was used 
for validation and for the sample analysis study. Method establishment was done based on a “balanced 
experimental design” for key assay variables. The applicant evaluated the minimal required dilutions 
for the screening assay and for the neutralisation assay. He set up assay cut points of 5% false 
positive error rates in the screening assay, and 1% in the confirmatory assay. Choice of controls, 
dilutions of serum samples, number of samples to setup and validate the method, and setting of cut 
points were done appropriately. This approach is aligned with respective guidance documents and is 
acceptable.  
A ligand-based assay to analyze neutralizing properties of ADAs was developed instead of a cellular 
assay. Ranibizumab binds VEGF-A and inhibits its interaction with cellular receptors, and thereby 
prevents signalling of receptors. The biological/therapeutical function of the API does not require direct 
interaction with immune- or other effector cells. ADAs having neutralizing properties will bind the API 
in a way hindering it to interact with VEGF. The applicant proposed to measure this biological effect by 
assessing - in a non-cell based competitive ligand binding assay – the ADA mediated quenching of a 
signal induced labelled VEGF. This approach seems acceptable for assessing neutralizing potential of 
SB11 specific ADA’s. 
Cut points: For screening and neutralisation assays, a floating cut point was set, based on signal to 
noise ratios (SNR). This was justified, based on different means of assay specific SNR’s between 
experimental runs, but comparable variances. The approach is acceptable. 
Cut point for the confirmation assay was defined as the ratio of signal inhibition in presence of SB11. 
Taken together, false positive rates were about 10% for both, pre-dose and treatment samples. These 
rates are conservatives, and within the acceptable range. The applicant also compared signal to noise 
ratios from inhibited samples from validation (cut-point) runs to inhibited clinical pre-dose samples. 
Means and variances were comparable, and below the screening cut point (with 2 exception). This 
seems to confirm that confirmatory cut-point was set appropriately. Determination of cut points was 
performed according to recommendations published in Shankar et al. (2008) for both assays. This 
approach is acceptable. 
Assay sensitivities were within the lower double-digit ng/ml range for screening and confirmation 
assay, and about the low three-digit ng/ml range for the ADA qualification assay. The screening assay 
sensitivity (definitely far below 100 ng/ml) seems to ensure patient’s safety, especially for the intended 
application of the API: Induced ADAs of the originator (1) did not occur frequently and (2) did not 
cross-react with an essential endogenous protein. Higher sensitivity of the ADA-qualification assay 
nevertheless would have been advantageous for comparison of the rather low levels of ADAs raised by 
SB11 and its originator. Nonetheless, the approach is acceptable. 
Inter- and intra-assay precision were below 20% for all assays. This is acceptable for bioassays. 
System suitability controls: Negative controls consisted of pooled human serum samples of low 
reactivity. Three positive controls (low, middle, high) were generated by spiking polyclonal, affinity 
purified SB11 specific immunoglobulins raised in non-human primates, into respective negative control 
matrix. These controls have been carefully selected and seem to be acceptable in terms of quality 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 32/146 
 
 
 
(species) and quantities (concentrations were chosen according to the sensitivity of the respective 
assay) to control the performance of the assay.  
Selectivity and interferences: No prozone effect was observed, up to an ADA level of 50 µg/ml. This 
concentration seems acceptable, since levels of ADAs induced by Ranibizumab were rather low. 
Presence of up to 100 and 50 ng/ml SB11 or Lucentis was tolerated in screening/confirmation and Nab 
binding assay, respectively. This qualifies the method for its intended use based on PK results 
(amounts of systemic SB11 below 5 ng/ml). No interference of haemolytic and lipaemic samples was 
observed. 
VEGF was tolerated up to 50 and 10 ng/ml, respectively in both assays. It apparently interferes with 
both assays and needs to be removed. This is done for the ADA-assay by low pH-dissociation of 
antibodies.  
Stability: Storage of samples at room temperature for 24h as well as repeated freeze/thaw cycles did 
not affect experimental outcome. This is an expected result for serum samples, which usually are 
rather stable. It qualifies this assay as applicable for the intended use. 
The ADA titration/quantification assays basically share the same experimental procedure with the 
screening assay, and the validation data of screening assay justified the applicability of the titration 
assay. 
Of the 5394 samples reported, 551 samples produced potential positive results equal to or above the 
assay cut point during the screening assay, 108 of which confirmed positive in Tier 2. Of these 108 
samples, 12 produced positive results in the Nab-assay. This correlates well with previously identified 
ADA levels in patients treated with Lucentis.  
  Assessment of antigenic equivalence 
The applicant assessed drug tolerance of the ADA screening assay by spiking 0 to 10 µg/ml SB11 or 
Lucentis into ADA samples containing SB11 specific monkey IgG, to compete with labelled SB11. 
Analysis of %CV between both drugs showed nearly overlapping results. Response units of three ADA 
dose levels were plotted against increasing levels of SB11 or Lucentis, respectively. The readout of the 
assay was directly dependent on magnitude of ADA levels, and SB11 as well as Lucentis showed 
mostly overlapping curves. Increasing levels of spiked drug triggered the expected competitive effect, 
within the assessed dose range of up to 10 µg/ml. 
The applicant used clinical samples to compare SB11 and Lucentis as competitors for labelled SB11 in 
the ADA confirmation assay. Means and distributions of %inhibition of both APIs were not statistically 
different. This seems to (1) justify the assay format and (2) qualifies the assay to assess 
immunogenicity of ADAs. 
In a second setting the applicant applied the neutralizing assay to compare antigenic potential of SB11 
and its originator Lucentis, by spiking 0 to 10 µg/ml SB11 and Lucentis into anti-SB11 monkey immune 
sera. No significant difference of NAb responses was observed (expressed as %CV of signal to noise) 
for SB11 compared to Lucentis. Signal to noise levels of increasing ADA levels were plotted against 
increasing drug levels. There was a direct proportional dependency of signal quenching and ADA levels. 
This quenching was inhibited identically by addition of the competitor SB11 or Lucentis. The applicant 
used as target in the assay the VEGF165 isoform, which is considered as the most optimal isoform to 
represent mode of action of ranibizumab in physiological environment. The low positive control (LPC) 
has been set and justified. The same lot of negative control (NC) pool was used for validation and for 
the sample analysis study. Specificity of the assay was considered valid for the intended application.  
ADA titration assay 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 33/146 
 
 
 
ADA screening-, confirmation and qualification assays were setup properly. They were fully validated 
according to relevant guidelines. Sensitivities were considerably improved in comparison to ADA assays 
developed for the originator Lucentis. Taken together, ADA assay portfolio proposed by the applicant 
appears appropriate for assessing induced anti-drug antibodies in AMD patients, and for assessing 
neutralizing properties of induced ADAs. ADA titration assay basically shares the same experimental 
procedure with the screening assay, thus the validation data of screening assay can represent the 
parameter of titration assay. Antigenic equivalence of SB11 and Lucentis were confirmed. 
Statistical methods 
Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set (PKS) consists of all subjects in the SAF who participate in PK evaluation 
at PK Investigational sites (PK subjects) and have at least one PK sample analysed. 
Initially, 120 patients (60 per treatment) were to be evaluated as per protocol. This was changed to 
approximately 40 subjects participating in PK evaluation (20 subjects per treatment group) per 
protocol amendment 1 of Sep 01, 2017, based on FDA comments. On Oct 01, 2018 there has been a 
memorandum for the enrolment of additional patients participating in pharmacokinetics subgroup 
analysis. After the sponsor stopped enrolment of patients participating in PK subgroup analysis on Jun 
04, 2018 as the enrolment had reached its capping value i.e. approximately 40 patients globally, it has 
been found that some PK samples were not collected due to patients not coming back to the sites or 
some of the PK samples taken from those patients were unable to be analysed due to haemolysis, or 
confirm its collection time/date due to insufficient source documents. Due to these issues and/or 
protocol deviations, those PK samples could not be included in the PK analysis. Therefore, the applicant 
had finally decided to enrol additional patients who participate in PK evaluation. It was clarified that, 
overall, 126 samples were reported to be excluded from the PK analysis and corresponding reasons 
were provided. PK sampling was not done in 53 samples due to early study termination or missing 
blood sampling and done in further 73 samples, but excluded from the PK analysis due to fellow eye 
treatment, deviation from the sampling window, lost samples, haemolysis, insufficient sample volume 
or quality of sample, or expired sample kits. In addition, it was clarified that initially (June 2018), 48 
patients were assigned to the PKS. Further six patients were enrolled in November 2018 in the PK 
analysis set (n=2 for Lucentis and n= 4 for SB11).  
Of note, the individual PK curves that were provided in the CSR seem to include all analysed data 
points, including the one with deviations from sampling window and fellow eye treatment. Additional 
summary statistics were provided where these data (36 and 8 samples corresponding to fellow eye 
treatment and deviation from the sampling window, respectively) were included with no large 
discrepancies from the initial analysis. 
Individual PK blood sampling time and serum concentrations are listed for the PK population.  
Serum concentrations are summarised descriptively at each scheduled sampling time for each 
treatment group (number of subjects (n), arithmetic mean, standard deviation (SD), coefficient 
variation (CV%), geometric mean, geometric SD, geometric CV%, median, minimum, and maximum). 
Below the limit of quantification (BLQ) concentrations are set to zero for the computation of descriptive 
statistics, except for geometric mean, geometric SD, and geometric CV%, for which they are excluded. 
If serum concentration is not collected within sampling window, it is excluded from summary statistics, 
but it is to be listed. 
The following objectives were determined with respect to comparative PK assessments of SB11 and 
Lucentis: 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 34/146 
 
 
 
Systemic exposure measured pre-dose (trough serum concentration [Ctrough]) and 24-72 hours post-
dose (postulated close to maximum serum concentration [Cmax]) measured at week 0, 1, 4, 8, 16, 24 
and 36 (and at week 52; but pre-dose only)  
2.3.2.2.  Study results 
Of the 705 patients randomised, 54 (7.7%) patients (25 [7.1%] patients in the SB11 and 29 [8.2%] 
patients in the Lucentis treatment groups) were included in Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set (PKS).  
The baseline characteristics of the patients in the PKS (BCVA; central subfield thickness, central point 
thickness, central retinal lesion thickness, total lesion area, area of CNV, lesion type, years since first 
diagnosis of nAMD, IOP) were comparable between the two treatment groups included in the PKS (data 
not shown). Other baseline characteristics were not provided. 
The mean (± standard deviation [SD]) serum concentration profiles by treatment are presented in 
Figure 1 below. 
Throughout all post-dose timepoints, arithmetic mean concentrations ranged between 1,346.5 pg/mL 
and 1,952.2 pg/mL for SB11 and 771.2 pg/mL and 1,298.0 pg/mL for Lucentis. The observed 
variability (CV%) ranged between 63.61% and 96.03% for SB11 and between 39.39% and 97.73% for 
Lucentis for post-dose timepoints and error bars for both treatments overlapped. Post-dose 
concentrations were in a similar range across all timepoints up to Week 52, but with a tendency of an 
overexposure of SB11 compared to Lucentis, in particular at steady state (see also discussion below). 
Pre-dose concentrations were non-quantifiable in the majority of subjects at all visits. 
The observed median values of serum concentration of SB11 and Lucentis are consistent with the 
model-based predicted median steady-state serum ranibizumab concentrations (0.22 ng/mL) [Xu et 
al., 2013]. 
It is notable that the analysis PK set was not complete at any time point. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 35/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 36/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 37/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Table 6 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 38/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Table 8 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 39/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Table 10 
Impact of immunogenicity on pharmacokinetics 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 40/146 
 
 
 
 
Only 3 subjects in the PK subset had positive ADA results (2 subjects in SB11 group at Week 52, and 1 
subject in Lucentis group at Week 36), therefore the impact of immunogenicity on PK cannot be 
assessed. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration (nAMD) is characterised by abnormal growth of new 
blood vessels under the retinal pigment epithelium or subretinal space from the subjacent choroid, 
termed choroidal neovascularisation (CNV). Subjects with nAMD have elevated ocular concentrations of 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which is thought to play a key role in the neovascularisation 
process. Anti-VEGF treatments, such as ranibizumab and aflibercept, inhibit VEGF signalling pathways 
and have been shown to halt the growth of neovascular lesions and resolve retinal oedema.  
Pharmacodynamically, ranibizumab is a humanised recombinant monoclonal antibody fragment that 
specifically recognizes and binds with high affinity to the vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) 
isoforms (e.g. VEGF110, VEGF121 and VEGF165). Ranibizumab exerts its inhibitory effects on 
angiogenesis and cell proliferation by selectively binding to VEGF-A and preventing the interaction of 
VEGF to its VEGF receptor tyrosine kinases on the surface of endothelial cells [Lucentis SmPC; Pandey 
AN, 2013].In the Study SB11-G31-AMD, retinal thickness (e.g., central subfield thickness [CST], 
central retinal lesion thickness [CRLT], central point thickness[CPT]), which well addresses the PD 
aspects of ranibizumab, was assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and lesion 
characteristics such as CNV size and presence of leakage or haemorrhage were evaluated using fundus 
photography (FP) and/or fluorescein angiography (FA). 
2.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The PK profiles of SB11 and US-Lucentis were compared in the clinical Phase III study (SB11-G31-
AMD) to support a comparative evaluation between two products.  
Based on the comprehensive quality- and non-clinical bridging exercise, the use of an US-approved 
reference product is accepted. 
The assay format employed by the applicant for the measurement of ranibizumab serum 
concentrations is considered acceptable.  
A standard multi-tiered approach was employed including screening, confirmatory and titer assays to 
evaluate anti-drug antibodies in accordance with EMA Guideline on Immunogenicity assessment of 
therapeutic proteins (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/14327/2006 Rev 1). A single-antigen approach using labelled 
SB11 has been applied for both the ADA assay and the NAb assay. Antigenic equivalence results, 
confirmatory results and drug tolerance results for both the biosimilar and the originator support the 
use of the one-assay approach. A bridging ligand-binding ADA assay with two pre-treatment steps (an 
acid dissociation and a VEGF depletion steps) and a competitive ligand binding NAb assay have been 
validated in several successive phases mainly to comply with the FDA Guidance for Industry released in 
2019 with regards to the establishment of the assay cut points at the same CRO. These assays have 
been adequately validated and are deemed suitable for their intended purpose.  
Statistical methods and analysis plan: Although it was considered acceptable to compare 
pharmacokinetics in a subset of patients only (see EMA SA EMEA/H/SA/3335/1/2016/III), the sample 
size for the PK analysis set seems to be arbitrarily chosen, based on FDA requirements. The applicant 
also argued that the 20 patients per group would be in line with the sample sizes used for previous 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 41/146 
 
 
 
studies, which compared the PK of ranibizumab, aflibercept and bevacizumab (e.g. Avery et al., 2014).  
This sample size, though on the lower limit, can be accepted to provide sufficient reassurance that no 
significant differences in terms of PK between both products may be assumed (see also below).   
Pre-dose Ctrough levels and post-dose (24 to 72 hours) concentration levels were summarised using 
descriptive statistics at pre-specified time points (baseline, week 1, 4, 8, 16, 24, 36 and pre-baseline 
only for week 52). This approach is acceptable. The 90% CIs for the means and geometric means were 
presented as part of an ad-hoc analysis. Although 95% CIs would have been preferred, the 90%CIs 
can be accepted because they are smaller than the 95% CIs making them less likely to overlap. The 
treatment groups were shown to be comparable in the following baseline characteristics: age, body 
weight, sex, ethnic origin, height.  
Study results: Pre-dose concentrations were not quantifiable for both treatment groups at all time 
points except for Week 4 where they both seem similar. This includes the pre-dose concentration levels 
of those subjects with highest concentration levels post dose. 
The mean post-dose concentrations of SB11 (24-72 hours post dose and at week 1) seem to be higher 
than the mean concentrations of Lucentis for all time-points, hinting at an overexposure of SB11 in 
comparison to Lucentis. The difference in mean serum concentrations seem to increase until week 36 
with the mean of SB11 lying outside the mean plus the standard deviation of Lucentis in the end.  
The variability also seems to be higher for SB11. Looking at the 90% CIs, it can be seen that the post-
dose mean concentration from SB11 was not within the 90% CI from Lucentis at Week 0, 1, 4, 16, 24 
and 36 (i.e., all post-dose measurement time-points except for Week 8). At Week 4, 16, 24 and Week 
36 also the post-dose mean concentration of Lucentis was outside the 90% CI from SB11 (which is 
additionally true for the geometric mean at Week 8). The 90% CIs for the mean were always 
overlapping although at Week 4 and Week 36 only by a small amount.  When looking at the GM, the 
90%CIs were not overlapping at Week 36.  
The overexposure of SB11 cannot be attributed to a difference in ADAs because only 3 subjects in the 
PK subset had positive ADA results (2 subjects in SB11 group at Week 52, and 1 subject in Lucentis 
group at Week 36). Given the low number of patients included in the PK subset with positive ADA 
results, the impact of immunogenicity on PK cannot be assessed.  
For SB11, four patients had particularly high concentration levels over time when compared with 
Lucentis-treated patients, where e.g. a value of 2000 pg/mL was exceeded only in a few patients at 
some time points and concentration levels were never higher than 2780 pg/mL. In contrast, the 
maximum levels that were reached in SB11-treated patients ranged up to 6670 pg/mL. The maximally 
observed serum concentrations are higher than expected (i.e., exceed 3 ng/mL in several SB11-
treated patients). It is acknowledged that the maximum concentrations of both the treatment groups 
up to Week 52 were still below the concentration range of ranibizumab (11-27 ng/mL) that was 
necessary to inhibit the biological activity of vascular endothelial growth factor-A by 50% (reported for 
an HUVEC proliferation assay at the time of Lucentis approval). However, it is higher than 2901 pg/ml, 
which was a reported half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) for VEGF inhibition of bovine 
microvascular endothelial cells proliferation (0.060 nM) [Avery et al., 2014; Yu et al., 2011]. Of note, 
no concern arises based on the review of quality data that might potentially have an impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of ranibizumab. To explore whether observed difference in certain adverse events 
(AEs) as observed throughout the study may be attributable to increased exposure levels, the 
applicant analysed the AEs in the pharmacokinetic (PK) subgroup, but no meaningful conclusion can be 
drawn based on this analysis due to the small sample size per group. The applicant further specifically 
reviewed AEs from those six subjects that had post-dose serum concentrations higher than 2901 
pg/ml. Among these, non-ocular adverse events (‘Nasopharyngitis’, ‘Rhinitis’, and ‘Headache’) were 
reported in two patients, which were all mild in intensity and assessed as not-related by the 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 42/146 
 
 
 
Investigator. In addition, in all these subjects, pre-dose concentrations fell below the BLQ at each time 
point when high post-dose concentration was observed. A tabulated comparative summary of AEs that 
may be associated with systemic VEGF inhibition did not show a pattern of a systematic difference 
between both treatment groups. In summary, the observed overexposure that was observed in the 
present study does not seem to translate into an increased incidence of AEs that could potentially be 
related to systemic VEGF inhibition. Although, overall, a slightly more unfavourable safety profile is 
noted with SB11 compared to Lucentis treatment, this trend is derived from a small number of events 
and must therefore be cautiously interpreted. No further evaluation can be made (see also safety 
discussion). 
During the review process, the large sampling window was questioned to accurately capture Cmax, 
based on available information on PK data of ranibizumab (Lucentis EPAR- Scientific discussion; Avery 
et al. 2014  doi:10.1136/bjophthalmol-2014-30525), indicating that Cmax is expected to occur at 0.5 to 
0.9 days post injection. The applicant argued that these studies would need to be interpreted with 
caution regarding the accuracy of the reported Tmax values and Cmax values, as no intensive post dose 
blood sampling has been conducted in these studies and that the large window in their study was 
chosen to account for variability in the ranibizumab exposure. This is acknowledged. Nevertheless, 
since the sampling time points were shown to be distributed over the whole time period in the present 
study (with the mean ranging from around 37 and 52 hours at the different visits) and only one sample 
being collected per subject and visit, the reported concentration levels cannot be robustly referred to 
as ‘close to Cmax’ levels and may ultimately be underestimated, if the true Cmax was actually earlier or 
closer to the time point of 24 hours, as reported in the literature for Lucentis. Reassuringly, however, 
no imbalance in sampling time points between both treatment groups seems to have occurred based 
on additionally provided data. As regards the criticism that a substantial part of patients (n=23/54; 
42.6%; 10 and 13 patients for SB11 and Lucentis, respectively) had at least one post-dose zero/non-
measurable concentration level, while two subjects never reached any measurable concentration levels 
at any time point (one per treatment group, see graphs above), the applicant argued that the systemic 
exposure of ranibizumab in previous clinical studies for population PK analysis was so low that 
approximately 70% of samples collected were below the lower limit of quantitation (BLQ, 0.3 ng/mL) 
[Xu et al., 2013]. Meanwhile, in Study SB11- G31-AMD, among the measurable 288 post-dose samples 
(except Week 1 and Week 52), only 50 (17%) samples from 24 patients in various time points were 
reported as BLQ, which would be an adequate lower limit of quantification to capture serum exposure 
of ranibizumab to assess safety. No further concern is raised in this regard.  
Below the limit of quantification (BLQ) concentrations were set to zero for the computation of 
descriptive statistics, except for geometric mean, geometric SD, and geometric CV%, for which they 
are excluded. An update of the descriptive statistics (together with the 90% confidence intervals of the 
geometric mean) was provided, excluding the concerned patients at specific time points. The resulting 
concentration values were higher when patients with BLQ values are not set to zero. The 90% CIs are 
however not overlapping, except for week 36, as has also been observed with the previously provided 
summary statistics. The applicant argues that this is expected based on the four SB11 outliers with 
very high concentration levels. This is acknowledged, but due to the consistent overexposure observed 
at all time points, attribution to chance finding alone seems less plausible. It is concluded, however, 
that these differences are not expected to be translated into clinically relevant differences, based on 
what is known for the originator as well as on the observed comparability between both products in 
terms of safety. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No dedicated, comparative PD investigations have been performed as part of the clinical biosimilarity 
exercise. This is accepted, as there appear to be no laboratory PD markers that, alone, could be 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 43/146 
 
 
 
regarded as specific surrogates for clinical efficacy and safety of ranibizumab. PD aspects were 
sufficiently addressed in the clinical phase III study SB11-G31-AMD. 
2.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The mean post-dose concentrations of SB11 seem to be higher than the mean concentrations of 
Lucentis for all time-points, hinting at an overexposure of SB11 in comparison to US-Lucentis. These 
differences are however not expected to translate into clinically relevant differences. From a PD 
perspective, the mechanism of action of ranibizumab is sufficiently described by the applicant and no 
concerns are raised given the absence of obvious PD biomarkers.  
The use of a non-EEA reference product is accepted as a sufficient quality bridge of the non-EEA 
comparator product with the EEA reference product has been established. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Main study 
SB11-G31-AMD 
A Phase III Randomised, Double-masked, Parallel Group, Multicentre Study to Compare the Efficacy, 
Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Immunogenicity between SB11 (proposed ranibizumab biosimilar) and 
Lucentis in Subjects with Neovascular Age-related Macular Degeneration. 
Figure 2 
Please note that the patient numbers in the figure above are not correct, instead 351 patients were 
randomised to the SB11 group and 354 to the Lucentis arm. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 44/146 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion Criteria 
1. Aged ≥ 50 years at Screening 
2. Newly diagnosed *active sub-foveal choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) lesion secondary to AMD in 
the study eye (*active CNV indicated presence of leakage and intra- or sub-retinal fluid which was 
confirmed by central reading centre during Screening) 
3. The area of CNV had to occupy at least 50% of total lesion in the study eye (confirmed by central 
reading centre (CRC) during Screening) 
4. A total lesion area of ≤ 9.0 disc areas (DA) in size (including blood, scars, and neovascularisation) in 
the study eye (confirmed by CRC) 
5. A BCVA of 20/40 to 20/200 (letter score of 73 to 34) at Screening and at Week 0 (Day 1) prior to 
randomisation 
6. Non-childbearing potential female/ childbearing potential female subjects or male subjects with their 
partners who agreed to use at least 2 forms of appropriate contraception method that achieved a 
failure rate of < 1% per year from Screening until 3 months after the last ITV injection of IP 
7. Written informed consent form was obtained from the subject prior to any study related procedure 
(if the subject was legally blind or illiterate, an impartial witness was present during the entire 
informed consent discussion) 
8. Willingness and ability to undertake all scheduled visits and assessments 
Exclusion Criteria 
Subjects meeting any of the following criteria were not eligible for the study: 
1. Sub- or intra-retinal haemorrhage that comprised > 50% of the entire lesion in the study eye, or 
presence of sub-foveal blood ≥ 1 DA in size (confirmed by CRC) 
2. Scar, fibrosis, or atrophy which involved the centre of the fovea in the study eye (confirmed by CRC) 
3. Presence of CNV in either eye due to other causes, such as ocular histoplasmosis, trauma, multifocal 
choroiditis, angioid streaks, history of choroidal rupture or pathologic myopia (confirmed by CRC) 
4. Presence of retinal pigment epithelial tears or rips which involved the macula in the study eye 
(confirmed by CRC) 
5. Presence of macular hole at any stage in the study eye (confirmed by CRC) 
6. Any concurrent macular abnormality other than AMD in the study eye (confirmed by CRC) 
7. History of vitrectomy surgery, trabeculectomy or other filtration surgery or sub-macular surgery or 
other surgical intervention for AMD in the study eye 
10. Any other intraocular surgery (incl. cataract surgery) or periocular surgery in the study eye within 
90 days prior to randomisation, except for lid surgery, which may not have taken place within 30 days 
prior to randomisation 
11. Any previous ITV anti-VEGF treatment (e.g., bevacizumab, aflibercept, ranibizumab) to treat 
neovascular AMD in either eye 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 45/146 
 
 
 
12. Any previous systemic anti-VEGF treatment, within 90 days prior to randomisation, and which was 
not allowed during the study period 
13. Any systemic treatment or therapy (including prescribed herbal medication) to treat neovascular 
AMD within 30 days prior to randomisation, and which was not allowed during the study period (dietary 
supplements, vitamins, or minerals were allowed). 
14. Any ITV injection of corticosteroid (e.g., triamcinolone acetonide) or ITV corticosteroid implant in 
the study eye within 180 days prior to randomisation, and which was not allowed during the study 
period 
15. Topical ocular corticosteroids administered for ≥ 30 consecutive days in the study eye within 90 
days prior to randomisation 
16. Spherical equivalent of the refractive error in the study eye demonstrated > 8 dioptres of myopia. 
For subjects who underwent previous refractive or cataract surgery in the study eye, the preoperative 
refractive error in the study eye was not to exceed 8 dioptres of myopia 
17. Aphakia or absence of the posterior capsule in the study eye (unless it occurred as a result of an 
Yttrium Aluminum Garnet posterior capsulotomy in association with prior posterior chamber intraocular 
lens implantation) 
18. Presence of scleromalacia in either eye 
19. Current vitreous haemorrhage in the study eye 
20. Active or recent (within 28 days prior to randomisation) intraocular, extraocular, and periocular 
inflammation or infection in either eye 
21. History of idiopathic or autoimmune uveitis, retinal detachment, full-thickness macular hole or 
corneal transplantation surgery in either eye 
25. Presence of advanced glaucoma or optic neuropathy that affected or threatened the central visual 
field in the study eye 
26. Uncontrolled ocular hypertension (defined as intraocular pressure [IOP] ≥ 25 mmHg despite 
treatment with antiglaucoma medication) in the study eye 
27. History of allergy to the fluorescein sodium for injection in angiography 
28. Previous participation in clinical studies of ocular IPs to treat neovascular AMD in either eye or 
systemic IPs to treat neovascular AMD, and which were not allowed during the study period 
29. Previous participation in any studies of ocular or systemic IPs (excluding dietary supplements, 
vitamins, and minerals) to treat ocular or systemic disease other than neovascular AMD within 90 days 
prior to randomisation, and which were not allowed during the study period even if the IP was dietary 
supplements, vitamins, or minerals 
30. History or clinical evidence of diabetic retinopathy (except for mild non-proliferative diabetic 
retinopathy) or diabetic macular oedema in either eye 
31. Any concurrent ocular condition in the study eye which would either increase the risk to the subject 
safety or which otherwise would interfere with evaluation of efficacy or safety including, but not limited 
to ocular media opacities such as corneal opacity or cataract that did not allow proper fundus 
visualisation and fundus imaging, and ocular surface abnormalities which prevented applanation 
tonometry during the study period after randomisation 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 46/146 
 
 
 
32. History of other disease, metabolic dysfunction, physical examination finding, or clinical laboratory 
finding that contraindicated the use of an IP in the opinion of the Investigator 
33. Pregnant or lactating women 
34. Employees of investigational sites, individuals directly involved with the conduct of the study, or 
immediate family members thereof, prisoners, and persons who were legally institutionalised 
35. Stroke, transient ischemic attacks, or myocardial infarction within 90 days prior to randomisation 
36. History of recurrent significant infections and/or current treatment for active systemic infection 
37. Known allergic reactions and/or hypersensitivity to ranibizumab or to any ingredients of the IP 
38. Prior treatment involving macula with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin, transpupillary 
thermotherapy, radiation therapy, or retinal laser treatment (e.g., focal laser photocoagulation) in the 
study eye, and which were not allowed during the study period 
39. Prior treatment with pan-retinal photocoagulation in the study eye, and which were not allowed 
during the study period 
40. Current use of systemic medications known to be toxic to the lens, retina, or optic nerve, including 
deferoxamine, chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine, tamoxifen, phenothiazines, vigabatrin, and 
ethambutol, which were not allowed during the study period 
Selection of the study eye 
Only 1 eye was designated as the study eye. For subjects who met eligibility criteria in both eyes, the 
eye with the worse visual acuity (VA) was selected as the study eye. If both eyes had equal VA, the 
eye with a better visual prognosis (e.g., clearer lens and ocular media, and less amount of sub-foveal 
scar or geographic atrophy) was selected at the Investigator’s discretion. If there was no objective 
basis for selecting the study eye, factors such as ocular dominance, other ocular pathology, and 
subject preference were considered. 
In conclusion, inclusion and exclusion criteria are in line with those in the clinical trials performed with 
Lucentis and are deemed acceptable. 
Treatments 
• SB11 (test, ranibizumab biosimilar drug) 
• Lucentis (reference, sourced from the US)  
Objectives 
Primary Objective 
To demonstrate the equivalence of efficacy of SB11 to Lucentis in subjects with neovascular AMD 
Secondary Objectives 
• To evaluate the safety of SB11 and Lucentis 
• To evaluate the immunogenicity of SB11 and Lucentis 
• To evaluate the systemic exposure of SB11 and Lucentis in subjects participating in PK evaluation 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 47/146 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint  
• 
• 
For EMA or other regulatory agencies who were in favour of the anatomical parameter, the primary 
endpoint was change from baseline in CST at Week 4.  
For US FDA, Korea Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, or other regulatory agencies who were in 
favour of the VA, the primary endpoint was change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8.  
Secondary Endpoints  
The secondary endpoints were as follows:  
•  Change from baseline in CST and CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 (based on assessment by central 
reading centre)  
•  Change from baseline in BCVA over time up to Week 24 and Week 52  
• 
• 
Proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15 letters in BCVA compared with baseline at Week 24 
and Week 52  
Proportion of patients who gained 15 letters or more in BCVA compared with baseline at Week 24 
and Week 52 
•  Change from baseline in total CNV size (area of CNV) at Week 24 and Week 52 (based on 
assessment by central reading centre)  
• 
Proportion of patients with active CNV leakage at Week 24 and Week 52 (based on assessment by 
central reading centre)  
Exploratory Endpoints  
• 
Proportion of patients without intra- or sub-retinal fluid at Week 24 and Week 52 (based on 
assessment by central reading centre)  
•  Change from baseline in subscale scores and composite score of national eye institute 25-item 
visual function questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25) at Week 24 and Week 52 
VA was assessed in both the study eye and fellow eye (FE) at Screening and prior to ITV injection of IP 
at each visit until Week 48. The VA was also assessed in both the study eye and FE at any time during 
the visit at Week 52 (EOS Visit) or ET Visit. 
Sample size 
For the calculation of the equivalence margin for BCVA, the mean changes in VA were referred from 
two studies of Lucentis in subjects with neovascular AMD. In MARINA study, the mean change of VA at 
Week 24 (SD) were −6.6 (13.31) letters and 6.5 (12.00) letters for placebo and 0.5 mg Lucentis 
treatment groups, respectively. In FOCUS study, the mean change (SD) of VA at Week 24 were −5.0 
(16.14) letters and 4.0 (14.41) letters for placebo and 0.5 mg Lucentis treatment groups, respectively.  
A fixed-effect meta-analysis of the above two studies estimates a weighted mean change in VA of 
12.41 letters with a 95% CI [10.34 letters; 14.48 letters]. The derived equivalence limit from meta-
analysis is 4.9 letters at Week 24, but by the agency recommendation the equivalence limit at Week 8 
will be 3 letters for the comparison with the 90% CI of mean difference between treatment groups. 
With the given equivalence margin of [−3 letters, 3 letters], 334 subjects per treatment groups was 
calculated with the assumptions of the mean difference of 0.5 letters and pooled standard deviation 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 48/146 
 
 
 
(SD) of 12.5 letters at the overall 5% significance level. Assuming a 5% loss from randomised subjects 
after 8 weeks, a sample size of 352 subjects per treatment groups (overall sample size of 704) will 
give 334 completers per treatment group after 8 weeks, which is estimated to give 80% power to 
detect the equivalence within the margin of 3 letters.  
For the calculation of the equivalence margin for CST, the mean changes in CST were referred from 
two studies of Lucentis in subjects with neovascular AMD. In MARINA study, the mean change of CST 
at Week 4 (SD) was 8.1 (58.1) μm and −106 (122.5) μm for placebo and 0.5 mg Lucentis treatment 
groups, respectively. In PIER study, the mean change (SD) of CST at Week 4 were 15 (94.9) μm and 
−90 (140.9) μm for placebo and 0.5 mg Lucentis treatment groups, respectively.  
A fixed-effect meta-analysis of the above two studies estimates a weighted mean change in CST of 
−109.6 μm with a 95% CI [−146.45 μm; −72.65 μm]. The derived equivalence limit from meta-
analysis is 36 μm at Week 4. With the given equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm], 290 subjects per 
treatment group was calculated with the assumptions of the mean difference of 0 between treatment 
groups, common SD of 133.3 μm at the overall 5% significance level. Assuming a 10% loss from FAS, 
a sample size of 323 per arm (overall sample size of 646) will give 80% power to detect the 
equivalence within the pre-defined margin.  
Therefore, the sample size of 704 allows enough power to detect the equivalence between treatment 
groups in both situations. 
Randomisation and masking 
Randomisation: 
Patients with neovascular AMD were allocated to the SB11 treatment group or Lucentis treatment 
group in a 1:1 ratio to receive either SB11 or 0.5 mg Lucentis. 
In multicentre trials, blocked randomisation was performed with fixed block size. No further 
stratification factors were considered. 
Masking: 
The study was double-masked. Subjects, Investigators, and other study personnel remained masked 
to the treatment group assignment throughout the study period after randomisation. To ensure the 
masking of the treatment group assignment, 1 carton would contain only 1 IP vial (SB11 or Lucentis). 
The carton and IP vial were packed and labelled in identical appearance. The IP remained masked 
throughout the study period except staffs designated for unmasking after the interim analysis. 
Unmasking: 
In general, unmasking of subjects during the conduct of the clinical study was not allowed unless there 
were compelling medical or safety reasons to do so, which was performed by the Investigator through 
the IWRS system. 
If the treatment group assigned to the subject was unmasked, Investigator promptly documented and 
explained to the Sponsor about any premature unmasking (e.g., accidental unmasking, unmasking due 
to a serious adverse event [SAE]) of the IP(s) which was treated to the subject. Pertinent information 
regarding the circumstances of unmasking of a subject’s treatment group was documented in the 
subject’s source documents. This included who performed the unmasking, the subject(s) affected, the 
reason for the unmasking, the date of the unmasking, and the relevant IP information. After 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 49/146 
 
 
 
unmasking (except unmasking for the purpose of pre-planned regulatory reporting), subjects were 
discontinued from the IP. 
After all subjects completed the procedures at Week 24, or its corresponding visit, the randomisation 
code was broken only for a limited number of identified individuals of the Sponsor and/or CRO for the 
purpose of reporting of the interim analyses to the regulatory agency. The code was only broken once 
all appropriate clinical data had been entered onto the database, all data queries had been resolved, 
and the assignment of those subjects to the analysis sets had been completed. Available efficacy, 
safety, PK, and immunogenicity data were analysed and reported in the main clinical study report 
(CSR) dated Oct 21, 2019. Generally, blinding was maintained after the efficacy measurement at week 
24. 
After the last subject completed the procedures at Week 52 (End of Study [EOS] Visit) or the 
corresponding visit and the database was locked, the treatment group assignment was unmasked, and 
all study data was analysed and reported in this final CSR. 
Measures to mask patients and study personnel from treatment allocation appear to be appropriate, as 
long as it has been ensured that the ITV injection administered cannot be distinguished, and that the 
blind was maintained throughout the whole trial.  
Statistical methods 
Analysis sets 
Randomised Set (RAN) consists of all patients who received a randomisation number at the 
randomisation visit. 
Full Analysis Set (FAS) consists of all patients who were randomised at the randomisation visit. 
Following the intent-to-treat principle, patients were analysed according to the treatment group they 
were assigned to at randomisation. However, patients who did not qualify for randomisation and were 
inadvertently randomised into the study were excluded from the FAS, provided these patients did not 
receive IP during the study period. The FAS was the primary analysis set for BCVA. 
Per-protocol Set for BCVA (PPS-BCVA) consists of all FAS patients who had received first two IP 
injections and completed the procedures at Week 8 without any major PDs that had an impact on the 
BCVA assessment. Major PDs that would lead to exclusion from this set were pre-defined prior to 
unmasking the treatment codes for analyses. 
Per-protocol Set for CST (PPS-CST) consists of all FAS patients who had received the first IP injection 
at Week 0 (Day 1) and completed the procedures at Week 4 without any major PDs that had an impact 
on the CST assessment. This PPS-CST was the primary analysis set for CST. Major PDs that would lead 
to exclusion from this set were pre-defined prior to unmasking the treatment codes for analyses. 
Safety Analysis Set consists of all patients who received at least 1 IP during the study period after 
randomisation. Patients were analyzed according to the IP received. 
The primary endpoint is the `Change from baseline in CST at Week 4´ in the per-protocol-set (PPS) 
population. The full-analysis-set (FAS) population was used as a supportive population by the applicant 
for evaluation of the sensitivity of the main analysis, but from a regulatory perspective in an 
equivalence setting, the FAS has equal importance and for a robust interpretation should lead to 
similar results. The FAS included all subjects who were randomised at the randomisation visit save for 
patients who were not qualified for randomisation but were erroneously randomised into the study, 
provided these patients did not receive investigational product (IP) during the study period. This could 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 50/146 
 
 
 
be seen as a deviation from the ITT principle, but due to the very limited extent of the issue (only one 
subject was excluded for this reason) no concern is raised. 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
For EMA, the primary efficacy analysis was performed for the Per-protocol Set for CST (PPS-CST) with 
the change from baseline in CST at Week 4 using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model with the 
baseline CST as a covariate and region (country) and treatment groups as factors. The equivalence in 
CST was declared if the two-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) of the difference of the CST least 
squares mean (LS mean) change from baseline in Week 4 between SB11 and Lucentis lies within the 
pre-defined equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm]. 
For US FDA, the primary efficacy analysis of BCVA was performed for the Full Analysis Set (FAS) with 
the change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 using ANCOVA model with the baseline BCVA as a 
covariate and region (country) and treatment group as factors. The equivalence in BCVA was declared 
if the two-sided 90% CI of the difference in terms of BCVA LS mean change from baseline at Week 8 
between SB11 and Lucentis lies within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [−3 letters, 3 letters]. 
For the primary analysis of CST for the PPS-CST, no missing data was imputed. For the primary 
analysis of BCVA for the FAS, missing data was imputed for patients who withdrew the study prior to 
the primary analysis timepoint. For the components of BCVA, the missing letter was imputed by 
multiple imputation (MI) under missing-at-random (MAR) approach with the assumption of monotone 
missing pattern and regression method. 
In equivalence trials the result of the FAS analysis set is generally not conservative because subjects 
who withdraw or drop out of the treatment group or the comparator group will tend to have a lack of 
response, and hence the results of using the full analysis set depending on the imputation method may 
be biased toward demonstrating equivalence (ICH E9 Statistical principals for Clinical Trials 
CPMP/ICH/363/96). Also the exclusion of a substantial proportion of subjects from the per protocol 
(PP) analysis may bias the results for the overall population. Therefore, the FAS and the per protocol 
set (PPS) have equal importance and for a robust interpretation have to lead to similar results (Points 
to consider on switching between superiority and non-inferiority CPMP/EWP/482/99). 
No formal adjustment of Type I error rates was needed for the primary endpoint and no multiplicity 
correction was done to control the multiple type I error rate for the secondary endpoints tested. 
Sensitivity Analyses of Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
To explore the robustness of the change from baseline in CST at Week 4 for the PPS-CST, the same 
analysis was performed for the FAS. The change from baseline in CST at Week 4 was analysed by 
using available case, MI under the missing-at-random (MI-MAR), and MI under the missing-not-at-
random (MI-MNAR) approaches. 
To explore the robustness of the change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 for the FAS, the same 
analysis was also performed for the Per-protocol Set for BCVA (PPS-BCVA). In addition, the change 
from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 was analysed for the FAS by using available case, last observation 
carried forward (LOCF), and MI-MNAR approaches. 
For the BCVA, available case analysis was performed for PPS-BCVA and FAS, and last observation 
carried forward (LOCF) was performed for FAS. If there were any subjects who dropped out from the 
study because of the reason ‘AE’, their missing values were imputed by MI under the missing-not-at-
random (MNAR) approach. These subjects were assumed to have had, on average, their change 
worsened by 20% compared with similar subjects. The 20% worsening was implied from the mean 
difference between Lucentis and placebo from historical studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 51/146 
 
 
 
For BCVA components at Week 8: Imputed value = Imputed value − (Imputed value × 0.2) 
For the CST, available case analysis and MI analysis under MAR were performed for FAS. If there were 
any subjects who dropped out from the study because of the reason ‘AE’, their missing values were 
imputed by MI under the MNAR approach. These subjects were assumed to have had, on average, 
their change worsened by 50% compared with similar subjects. The 50% worsening was implied from 
the mean difference between Lucentis and placebo from historical studies. 
For the CST at Week 4: Imputed value = Imputed value + (Imputed value × 0.5) 
Secondary Efficacy Analyses 
The following analyses were performed for the secondary efficacy endpoints: 
• Analysis of change from baseline in continuous outcome measure: The secondary efficacy variable 
was analysed similar to the primary analysis. 
• Analysis of difference in proportion of patients: The adjusted risk difference between the 2 treatment 
groups were calculated using a stratified Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test and 95% CIs were 
presented for FAS. The stratification factor for CMH test was region (country). 
All analyses of the secondary efficacy variables were based on available data. No missing data was 
imputed. The analyses for CST at Week 24 and Week 52 and BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 were 
done on the PPS-CST respectively PPS-BCVA and FAS whereas for all other secondary endpoints the 
FAS was used. 
Subscale scores (general health, general vision, ocular pain, near activities, distance activities, vision-
specific social functioning, vision-specific mental health, vision-specific role difficulties, vision-specific 
dependency, driving, colour vision, and peripheral vision) and the composite score, which represent 
overall visual function, were calculated, and the change from baseline were summarised by treatment 
group and visit for the FAS. 
The subscale scores and composite score of NEI VFQ-25 were summarised without subjects who 
received Lucentis in the fellow eye due to AMD during the study period after randomisation. 
Subgroup analyses 
The Primary efficacy variable BCVA is summarised and analysed by the following prognostic factors at 
baseline or immunogenicity (8-week ADA result was defined as an overall ADA result up to week 8) 
results for exploratory purpose: 
- Summary of change from baseline in BCVA by overall ADA result up to week 8 for FAS 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in BCVA at week 8 by overall ADA result up to week 8 for 
FAS 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in BCVA at week 8 by lesion type at baseline for FAS 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in BCVA at week 8 by total lesion area (≤4DA vs. ＞4DA) 
at baseline for FAS 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in BCVA at week 8 by country for FAS 
The Primary efficacy variable CST is summarised and analysed by the following prognostic factors at 
baseline or immunogenicity (4-week ADA result was defined as an overall ADA result up to week 4) 
results for exploratory purpose: 
- Summary of change from baseline in CST by overall ADA result up to week 4 for PPS-CST 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 52/146 
 
 
 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in CST at week 4 by overall ADA result up to week 4 for 
PPS-CST 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in CST at week 4 by total lesion area (≤4DA vs. ＞4DA) at 
baseline for PPS-CST 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in CST at week 4 by lesion type at baseline for PPS-CST 
- Subgroup analysis of change from baseline in CST at week 4 by country for PPS-CST 
Ad-hoc analyses 
For the change from baseline in BCVA also the 95% CIs were calculated which were not specified in the 
protocol (for Week 8 for PPS and FAS under MI-MAR and for Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS on 
available cases). Taking a two-sided 90% CI as primary instead of a two-sided 95% CI for change from 
baseline in BCVA at Week 8 is not allowed because this would increase the two-sided type I error rate 
to 10%. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals are to be used for all clinical trials (except for PK analyses 
where 90% CIs have been established) regardless of their objective, i.e. superiority testing, non-
inferiority testing or equivalence testing (CPMP/EWP/482/99). 
Results 
Participant flow 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 53/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 54/146 
 
 
 
 
In the SB11 treatment group, a higher number of patients dropped out of the study. Table 12 lists the 
patients who discontinued prior to Week 52. For 6 out of 25 patients, the reason for consent 
withdrawal was identified and is acceptable. For the remaining 19 patients, no reason for 
discontinuation is known, but this is acknowledged since patients may refuse to give a reason for 
withdrawing consent.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 55/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Study discontinuations due to IMP non-compliance occurred in 9 patients from the SB11 group and 
only in 1 patient from the Lucentis group. 6 of 9 patients discontinued due to adverse events, but 
these were assessed by the investigator as not IMP-related. 2 patients had safety reasons and one 
discontinuation was due to patient refusal. No information is available on discontinuation from the 
Lucentis arm, however as only one patient is involved, this is considered negligible. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 56/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Deviations: 
Table 13 
The major PDs were higher for Lucentis than for SB11 with 14 (4.0%) versus 8 (2.3%) for PPS-CST 
with the largest difference for “study procedure” with 4 (1.1%) versus 8 (2.3%), respectively. Most 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 57/146 
 
 
 
 
major PDs seem to happen later on in the trial after Week 8 because there are 273 subjects with at 
least one major PD, but in the PPS-BCVA only 31 subjects were excluded.  
Baseline data 
Table 14 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 58/146 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 59/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 60/146 
 
 
 
 
It is noted that the mean CST, CPT and CRLT was slightly lower in the SB11 treatment arm (403.55 
μm, 312.91 μm and 348.38 μm, respectively) rather than in the Lucentis treatment arm (411.65 μm, 
324.68 μm and 360.08 μm, respectively). However, the size (total lesion area) was well balanced 
across the arms (8.212 mm2 in the SB11 and 8.326 mm2 in the Lucentis arm) and also the mean area 
of CNV (7.988 mm2 in SB11 and 8.135 mm2 in Lucentis).  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 61/146 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common lesion type was ‘occult’ in both study arms, followed by ‘classic and occult’. The 
most common lesion types in the Originator´s ANCHOR study were predominantly classical lesions and 
in the case of the MARINA study the lesion types were predominantly minimally classical or occult CNV. 
Although the study arms of the trial SB11-G31-AMD are comparable (also in other baseline 
characteristics), it cannot be completely excluded that due to a different set of lesion types the same 
sensitivity prevails as in the originator studies. 
The mean interval since first diagnosis of neovascular AMD at baseline was slightly later with 0.21 
years in the SB11 compared to 0.13 years in the Lucentis treatment groups. The mean IOP was 
comparable with 15.28 mmHg in the SB11 and 15.16 mmHg in the Lucentis treatment groups. 
In general, the population studied in the SB11-G31-AMD trial is considered sensitive enough to show 
similarity and the baseline characteristics seem comparable between the study arms. 
Medical/ surgical history: 
Overall, a comparable number of patients in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups had an ocular 
medical/surgical history in SOC (285 [81.2%] patients in SB11 and 290 [81.9%] patients in the 
Lucentis treatment groups) and the number of patients who had a non-ocular medical/surgical history 
in SOC (319 [90.9%] patients in SB11 and 316 [89.3%] patients in the Lucentis treatment groups) 
was also comparable.  
Numbers analysed 
Table 16 
Table 1: 
Data Sets Analyzed (Randomized Set, Study SB11-G31-AMD) 
Randomized Analysis Set1 
Full Analysis Set2 
Per-protocol Set for BCVA3 
Per-protocol Set for CST4 
Safety Analysis Set5 
SB11 
US Lucentis® 
Total 
n 
351 
351 
336 
342 
350b 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(100.0) 
(95.7) 
(97.4) 
(99.7) 
n 
354 
353a 
333 
338 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(99.7) 
(94.1) 
(95.5) 
354a,b 
(100.0) 
n 
705 
704 
669 
680 
704 
(%) 
(100.0) 
(99.9) 
(94.9) 
(96.5) 
(99.9) 
29 
25 
(7.1) 
Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set6 
BCVA = best corrected visual acuity; CST = central subfield thickness; n = number of patients in the respective analysis set 
Percentages were based on the number of randomized patients. 
a One patient was excluded from both Full Analysis Set and Safety Analysis Set, because this patient was mis-randomized and 
discontinued from the study before first IP dosing. 
b One patient was initially randomized to receive SB11 (IP) but the IP was incorrectly injected to the fellow eye and Lucentis® 
(non-IP) was injected to the study eye instead until Week 20 (Study day 141) of the study. The patient was discontinued from 
the study (Study day 164) primarily due to protocol deviation. The patient was later included in the Lucentis® treatment group 
in the Safety Analysis Set.   
Safety Analysis Set corresponds to Safety Set (SAF). 
Source: Table 3 in Section 2.7.3 Summary of Clinical Efficacy   
(7.7) 
(8.2) 
54 
The patient numbers analysed are balanced between the two treatment arms SB11 and Lucentis.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 62/146 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 was based on the Per-Protocol set. The equivalence in CST 
was declared if the two-sided 95% CI of the difference of the CST LS mean change from baseline in 
Week 4 between SB11 and Lucentis lies within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 
μm]. 
Table 17 
In the PPS, the LS mean observed for change from baseline in CST at Week 4 was −108.40 μm in the 
SB11 and −100.05 μm in the Lucentis arm. The adjusted treatment difference in CST of the change 
from baseline between SB11 and Lucentis at Week 4 was −8.35 μm, and the 95% CI of the adjusted 
treatment difference was [−19.446, 2.747], which was completely contained within the pre-defined 
equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm]. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 63/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 
Using FAS, the results performed on available cases showed that the LS mean observed for change 
from baseline in CST at Week 4 was −108.73 μm in the SB11 and −100.55 μm in the Lucentis arm. 
The difference between SB11 and Lucentis was −8.18 with a 95% CI [−19.054, 2.699] which was 
completely contained within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm]. 
Sensitivity analyses based on the primary endpoint for the FAS analysis population using multiple 
imputation technique for all subjects with missing data who dropped out for the study prior to the 
primary analysis time point were performed as supporting evidence. The difference of the CST LS 
mean was −7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 2.984] and −7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 2.984] for MI-MAR and MI-
MNAR, respectively. By using the imputation methods, both 95% CIs lie within the bioequivalence 
margin set by the EMA [-36 μm, 36 μm].  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 64/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 
At the time of the primary endpoint change in CST at Week 4 from baseline, a total of 53 patients 
received fellow eye treatment. A total of 317 of 342 (92.7%) patients in the SB11 and 310 (91.7%) of 
338 patients in the Lucentis treatment groups did not receive Lucentis treatment in their fellow eye 
until Week 4. The applicant performed ad-hoc analysis of the change from baseline in CST at Week 4 
excluding patients who had received fellow eye (Lucentis) treatment at least once prior to Week 4. The 
mean difference was −9.38 μm with the 95% CI of [−21.100 μm, 2.341 μm]. The result is comparable 
to the results of the primary analysis (−8.35 μm [95% CI: −19.446 μm, 2.747 μm]). Treatment of the 
fellow eye does not seem to affect efficacy of the study eye. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 65/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint analysis 
Change from Baseline in BCVA at Week 8 (primary EP for FDA)  
Table 20 
The LS mean observed for change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 for FAS was 6.18 letters in the 
SB11 and 6.99 letters in the Lucentis arm. The adjusted treatment difference was −0.80 letters and 
the 90% CI [−1.827, 0.219] of the difference lies entirely within the pre-defined equivalence margin of 
±3 letters. The ad-hoc results of the 95% CI for FAS under MI-MAR: [−2.023, 0.415] is naturally a bit 
wider than the 90% CIs but still within the margin of [−3 letters, 3 letters], thus supporting the 
requirements of the EU authorities. 
Table 21 
For the PPS, the treatment difference between SB11 and Lucentis was −0.76 and the 90% CI of the 
adjusted treatment difference of SB11 and Lucentis was [−1.808, 0.286] and the ad-hoc 95% CI of 
the adjusted treatment difference was [−2.010, 0.487], both were completely contained within the 
pre-defined equivalence margin of [−3 letters, 3 letters]. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 66/146 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 22 
Sensitivity analyses performed on FAS on available case showed a difference of −0.82 letters between 
SB11 and Lucentis [95% CI: −2.046, 0.398]. Analysis on the FAS using LOCF demonstrated a 
difference of −0.83 letters [95% CI: −2.064, 0.397] and using MI-MNAR showed a difference of −0.77 
letters [95% CI: −1.998, 0.451]. In all analyses the 95% CIs were within the bioequivalence margin 
set by the FDA (and also accepted by EMA) [-3 letters, 3 letters].  
The results of the sensitivity analysis were comparable to the results from the primary analysis and 
therefore supporting the robustness of the equivalence between SB11 and Lucentis also in the 
endpoint BCVA. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 67/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in Central Point Thickness (CPT) at Week 4 
Table 23 
Table 24 
The analysis of change from baseline in CPT at Week 4 using available cases indicated that the 
adjusted treatment difference between SB11 and the originator Lucentis was −12.10 with a 95% CI of 
[−24.389, 0.194] for the PPS-CST and −11.52 μm with a 95% CI of [−23.554, 0.520] for the FAS on 
available data. This analysis further confirmed the results of the primary analysis. 
Analysis of Change from Baseline in CST at Week 24 and Week 52 
Table 25 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 68/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary endpoints “change from baseline in CST at Week 24” and “change from baseline in CST 
at Week 52” showed statistically significant differences between SB11 and Lucentis, although the 95% 
CIs were within the ±36 μm equivalence margin, which was calculated for CST at Week 4.  
For the PPS, the point estimate at Week 24 was −9.59 μm [95% CI: −19.095, −0.091] and at Week 
52 it was –15.09 μm [95% CI: −25.617, −4.563].  
Table 26 
The point estimate for the difference in the FAS population was −9.50 with a 95% CI of [−18.850, 
−0.142] at Week 24 and −14.91 with a 95% CI of [−25.272, −4.548] at Week 52 based on available 
cases.  
Analysis of Change from Baseline in CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 
Table 27 
The change from baseline in CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS on available cases were also 
comparable between the 2 treatment groups (SB11: −147.67 μm, Lucentis: −138.41 μm at Week 24; 
SB11: −161.00 μm, Lucentis: −149.46 μm at Week 52). The difference between SB11 and Lucentis 
was −9.27 μm at Week 24 with a 95% CI of [−20.969, 2.439] and –11.53 μm at Week 52 with a 95% 
CI of [−23.211, 0.418] showing a non-significant lower reduction for Lucentis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 69/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in BCVA Over Time up to Week 24 and Week 52 
Table 28 
The changes from baseline in BCVA at Week 24 for the FAS were 8.52 letters in the SB11 and 9.33 
letters in the Lucentis treatment groups. The adjusted treatment difference of change from baseline in 
BCVA between the SB11 and Lucentis at Week 24 was −0.80 letters with a 95% CI of [−2.314, 0.705] 
(available case). Whereas the change from baseline in BCVA at EOS (Week 52) was 9.79 letters in the 
SB11 and 10.41 letters in the Lucentis treatment groups and the adjusted treatment difference at 
Week 52 was −0.62 letters with a 95% CI of [−2.375, 1.140] (available case). The ad-hoc 95% CIs for 
the FAS using LOCF, MI-MAR, and MI-MNAR at Week 24 and at Week 52 were also comparable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 70/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 29 
The change from baseline in BCVA at Week 24 for the PPS was 8.40 letters in the SB11 and 9.37 
letters in the Lucentis treatment groups. At the EOS, the change from baseline was 9.82 letters in the 
SB11 and 10.39 letters in the Lucentis treatment groups. The adjusted treatment difference of the 
changes from baseline in BCVA between SB11 and Lucentis at Week 24 was −0.97 letters [95% CI: 
−2.517, 0.581] and at Week 52 the difference was −0.57 letters [95% CI: −2.374, 1.236].  
Proportion of Patients Who Lost Fewer than 15 Letters in BCVA Compared with 
Baseline at Week 24 and Week 52 
The proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15 letters in BCVA at Week 24 for the FAS was 97.9% 
(326/333 patients) in the SB11 and 99.4% (336/338 patients) in the Lucentis treatment groups. At 
Week 52, the proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15 letters in BCVA was 96.8% (299/309 
patients) in the SB11 and 97.9% (320/327 patients) in the Lucentis treatment groups. 
Table 30 
The adjusted treatment difference between SB11 and Lucentis at Week 24 was −1.54 with a 95% CI of 
[−3.279, 0.206] and at Week 52 the adjusted differences was −1.24 with a 95% CI of [−3.764, 
1.275]. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 71/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of Patients Who Gained 15 Letters or More in BCVA Compared with 
Baseline at Week 24 and Week 52 
The proportion of patients who gained 15 letters or more in BCVA to Week 24 for the FAS was 25.5% 
(85/333 patients) in the SB11 and 27.2% (92/338 patients) in the Lucentis treatment groups and 
34.6% [107/309 patients] in the SB11 and 37.6% [123/327 patients] in the Lucentis treatment groups 
at Week 52. 
Table 31 
The adjusted treatment difference between SB11 and Lucentis at Week 24 was −1.91 with a 95% CI of 
[−8.554, 4.730] and at Week 52 the treatment difference was −3.17 with a 95% CI of [−10.509, 
4.163]. 
Additionally, the proportion of patients who gained and lost 5 and 10 letters or more in BCVA 
compared with baseline at Week 24 and Week 52 were comparable between the 2 treatment groups. 
Change from Baseline in Total CNV Size (Area of CNV) at Week 24 and Week 52 
Table 32 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 72/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Results revealed that the size was well comparable across the SB11 and Lucentis treatment arms 
(SB11: −3.98 mm2, Lucentis: −3.91 mm2 at Week 24; SB11: −5.17 mm2, Lucentis: −4.62 mm2 at 
Week 52). The adjusted treatment difference between SB11 and Lucentis at Week 24 was –0.07 mm2 
with a 95% CI of [−0.711, 0.572] and at Week 52 was –0.55 mm2 with a 95% CI of [−1.200, 0.105].  
Figure 3 
Proportion of Patients with Active CNV Leakage at Week 24 and Week 52
The proportion of patients with active choroidal neovascularisation leakage at Week 24 for the FAS was 
64.6% (210/325 patients) in the SB11 and 66.3% (218/329 patients) in the Lucentis treatment 
groups. The proportion of patients with active CNV leakage at Week 52 was 52.1% (158/303 patients) 
in the SB11 and 59.1% (185/313 patients) in the Lucentis arm. 
Table 33 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 73/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Active CNV leakage at Week 24 was comparable between the treatments (64.6% versus 66.3% in the 
SB11 and Lucentis arm, respectively) and the adjusted treatment difference between SB11 and 
Lucentis at Week 24 was −1.80 [95% CI: −8.972, 5.364] for the FAS. However, at the end of the 
study (Week 52), the proportion of patients with active CNV leakage was higher when treated with 
Lucentis than when treated with SB11 (52.1% versus 59.1% in the SB11 and Lucentis arm, 
respectively with a treatment difference of –7.36 letters [95% CI: −14.959, 0.243]).  
Exploratory Efficacy Results 
Proportion of Patients without Intra- or Sub-retinal Fluid at Week 24 and Week 52 
In the FAS on available cases, the proportion of subjects without intra- or sub-retinal fluid increased 
over time, with a minimum of subjects without intra- or sub-retinal fluid at Week 0 (SB11: 26.2% 
[92/351], Lucentis: 24.6% [87/353] subjects) and higher proportion at Week 24 and Week 52 (SB11: 
76.2% [250/328], Lucentis: 80.9% [271/335] subjects at Week 24; SB11: 84.4% [260/308], 
Lucentis: 81.0% [265/327] subjects at Week 52). It was shown that the proportion of patients without 
intra- or subretinal fluid increased to a similar extent in both study arms over the 52-week period 
without showing a consistent higher improvement in one of the arms.  
Change from baseline Composite Score of NEI VFQ-25 at Week 24 and Week 52 
An increase in the NEI VFQ-25 composite score in the FAS using available cases was observed at Week 
24 and Week 52 in both treatment groups (SB11: 79.29, Lucentis: 82.57 at Week 24; SB11: 80.54, 
Lucentis: 84.03 at Week 52).  
Overall, the mean change in the NEI VFQ-25 composite score in Lucentis-treated eyes improved 
slightly more at both 24- and 52-week visits compared to SB11 treatment. However, the mean change 
between the two treatment groups is not considered clinically meaningful (SB11: 3.80, Lucentis: 4.98 
at Week 24; SB11: 4.54, Lucentis: 6.47 at Week 52). 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup Analyses of Change from Baseline in CST 
Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 by Overall ADA Result up to Week 4 
Table 34 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 74/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 by Total Lesion Area (≤ 4 DA vs > 4 DA) at 
Baseline 
Table 35 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 75/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 by Lesion Type at Baseline 
Table 36 
Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 by Country 
Table 37 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 76/146 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, the subgroup analyses of the efficacy variable CST were comparable regarding prognostic 
factors (total lesion area, lesion type, country). A difference in efficacy in terms of mean change in CST 
from baseline up at Week 4 was observed in ADA positive subjects between the treatments (−73.72 
μm and −20.20 μm for the SB11 arm and the Lucentis arm, respectively). The difference (SB11-
Lucentis) in mean change in CST from baseline up to Week 4 is -53.53 with 95% CI (-111.076, 4.021) 
for ADA positive patients which does not lie within the 95% CI (-22.251, 1.373) of the ADA negative 
subgroup, but the 95% CIs overlap and the overall point estimate of −8.35 μm lies within both 95% 
CIs (possible differences in the subgroup analyses in CST at week 4 and BCVA at week 8 by overall 
ADA result up to Week 52 are discussed in more detail below). 
Overall, some heterogeneity were observed in the Indian subgroup (mean difference: −52.31; 95% 
CI: −106.305, 1.68), but this is attributed to low sample sizes in these groups and the magnitude is 
not to an extent that affects the overall conclusion on consistency in treatment effect across 
subgroups. The 95% CIs of the difference in change from baseline in CST for all subgroups seem to 
cover the overall point estimate of −8.35 μm.  
For better comparability the applicant provided forest plots for the different subgroups: 
Figure 4 
Subgroup Analyses of change from baseline in BCVA 
Forest plots for the difference in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 in the FAS using 
available case, last observation carried forward (LOCF), multiple imputation under missing-at-random 
(MI-MAR), and multiple imputation under missing-not-at-random (MI-MNAR) approaches were 
provided for better comparability between subgroups (Figure 5 shows the analysis for available cases 
as example). Regardless of the imputation methods used for the FAS, the patterns observed in the 
forest plots for the difference in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 of the subgroup 
analyses were similar. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 77/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 
The subgroup of “classic CNV” containing 27 subjects with available cases per treatment arm showed a 
marked difference in treatment effect compared to the overall population, i.e. it had a mean difference 
of 7.49 letters in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 with 95% CI: [2.84, 12.14] in the FAS 
using available cases which does not include the overall treatment effect of -0.8 letters. The applicant 
has identified possible demographic reasons (slight imbalance in total lesion/CNV area and central 
retinal lesion thickness) where larger baseline CNV lesion size was observed in the Lucentis treatment 
arm. According to the retrospective subgroup analysis of 12-month data from the ANCHOR study but 
also other trial results, CNV lesion size was a predictor of the VA outcome. Accordingly, a less 
advanced disease (including a lower baseline VA score and a smaller baseline CNV lesion size) was 
associated with greater gain in letters with ranibizumab treatment. It can be assumed that the baseline 
imbalances and the relatively small sample sizes led to the difference of the classic CNV subgroup. 
For the subgroup of patients with “occult CNV” containing 201/208 (under LOCF imputation) the mean 
difference in BCVA at Week 8 was -1.53 with 95% CI [−3.00, −0.06] and does not include 0 (whereas 
all other imputation methods included 0), but the overall treatment effect of -0.8 letters was covered 
in the 95% CI.  
For the ADA positive and the ADA negative subgroups the 95% CIs of the change from baseline in 
BCVA at Week 8 included 0 with all imputation methods. As the number of ADA positive patients (8 in 
the SB11 and 7 in the Lucentis group) is quite small, the corresponding 95% CIs are wide and not 
within the equivalence margins.  
The other BCVA analyses in the subgroups according to prognostic factors at baseline (total lesion 
area, lesion type, country) or immunogenicity results showed consistency of the treatment effect 
across subgroups.  
Subgroup Analyses of Change from Baseline in CST at Week 4 and BCVA at Week 8 by 
Overall ADA Result up to Week 52 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 78/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 38 
Table 39 
For subjects with positive ADA status, the mean difference of change from baseline in CST at week 4 
between both treatment arms was -17.39µm with 95% CI [-50.696, 15.910] using the PPS. Contrary, 
the mean change from baseline in BCVA at week 8 between the treatment arms was -3.03 letters with 
90% CI [-8.105, 2.036] using available cases in the FAS. This difference can also be followed over 
time (Week 24 and Week 52 analysis). The applicant explains this difference, by the small sample size 
and a more complex relationship between BCVA and retinal thickness in nAMD. This can be followed. 
The number of ADA-positive patients remained constant from week 4 (8), 24 to 52 but was always 
slightly higher in the originator arm Lucentis. Titer levels were not measured during the NAb 
assessment. As the number of subjects with positive NAbs up to week 52 was quite low and, 
consequently, the variability high, it is difficult to see any pattern.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 79/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 40 
Table 41 
Overall, the limited number of actual ADA-positive subjects, as well as the fact that an opposite 
outcome was seen between the EMA- and FDA-facing primary endpoint (CST and BCVA, respectively), 
whereby the outcome of CST was in favor of SB11 and the change of BCVA was in favor of Lucentis, 
make it not possible to infer clinical meaning from these findings and it is entirely possible that this 
represents a chance finding. 
Summary of main study(ies) 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the biosimilarity assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 80/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 42: Summary of Efficacy for trial SB11-G31-AMD 
Title: A Phase III Randomised, Double-masked, Parallel Group, Multicentre Study to Compare the Efficacy, 
Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Immunogenicity between SB11 (proposed ranibizumab biosimilar) and 
Lucentis in Subjects with Neovascular Age-related Macular Degeneration. 
Study identifier 
Design 
EudraCT number: 2017-000422-36 
US IND Number:  130331 
Randomised, double-masked, parallel group, multicenter study to evaluate the 
efficacy, safety, PK, and immunogenicity of SB11 compared with Lucentis in 
subjects with neovascular AMD. After Screening, eligible subjects were 
randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to receive either SB11 or Lucentis.  
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Equivalence 
SB11 (biosimilar 
candidate) 
US-Lucentis 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Change from 
Mar 14, 2018 - Dec 09, 2019 
not applicable 
not applicable 
0.5 mg SB11 via ITV route every 4 
weeks up to Week 48 (13 doses in 
total) 
0.5 mg SB11 via ITV route every 4 
weeks up to Week 48 (13 doses in 
total) 
The equivalence in CST was declared if the two-
baseline in 
sided 95% CI of the difference of the CST LS 
CST at Week 
mean change from baseline in Week 4 lies 
4 
within the pre-defined margin of [−36 μm, 36 
μm] 
Secondary 
Change from 
The equivalence in BCVA was declared if the 
endpoints 
baseline in 
two-sided 90% CI of the difference in terms of 
BCVA at Week 
BCVA LS mean change from baseline at Week 8 
8 
lies within the pre-defined margin of [−3 
letters, 3 letters]. 
Change from baseline in CST/ CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 
Change from baseline in BCVA over time up to Week 24 and 
Week 52 
Proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15 letters in BCVA   
compared with baseline at Week 24 and Week 52  
Proportion of patients who gained 15 letters or more in BCVA 
compared with baseline at Week 24 and Week 52 
Change from baseline in total CNV size (area of CNV) at Week 
24 and Week 52 
Proportion of patients with active CNV leakage at Week 24 and 
Week 52 
Database lock 
Feb 03, 2020 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Full analysis set (FAS) and Per protocol (PPS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 81/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary endpoint 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
PEP evaluation by w4, sec. EP evaluation by w8, 24, 52 
Treatment group 
Number of 
subject 
Change from 
Baseline in CST at 
Week 4  
  Mean (SE) (µm) 
  (PPS) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
[95% CI]  
Change from 
Baseline in CST at 
Week 4  
(n) 
Mean (SE) (µm) 
(FAS, available 
cases) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
[95% CI] 
Change from 
Baseline in CST at 
Week 4  
(n) 
Mean (SE) (µm) 
(FAS, MI-MAR) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
Change from 
Baseline in CST at 
Week 4  
(n) 
Mean (SE) (µm) 
(FAS, MI-MNAR) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from 
baseline in BCVA 
at Week 8 
Mean (SE) (letters) 
(FAS, available 
case) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
[95% CI] 
(PPS) 
Mean Difference 
(SE)  
[90% CI],  
[95% CI] 
SB11 
342 
US-Lucentis 
338 
−108.40 (4.65) 
−100.05 (4.64) 
−8.35 (5.65) 
[−19.446, 2.747] 
(350) 
−108.73 (4.56) 
(348) 
−100.55 (4.53) 
−8.18 (5.54) 
[−19.054, 2.699] 
(351) 
−108.17 (4.58) 
(353) 
−100.27 (4.55) 
−7.90 (5.56) 
[−18.776, 2.984] 
(351) 
−108.17 (4.58) 
(353) 
−100.27 (4.55) 
−7.90 (5.56) 
[−18.776, 2.984] 
SB11 
US-Lucentis 
6.18 (0.52) 
6.99 (0.51) 
−0.82 (0.62) 
 [−2.046, 0.398] 
−0.76 (0.64) 
[−1.808, 0.286] 
[−2.010, 0.487] 
Analysis description  Secondary analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 82/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline 
in CPT at Week 4 
(PPS) 
LS Mean (SE) µm 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from Baseline 
in CPT at Week 4 
(FAS) 
LS Mean (SE) µm 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from baseline 
in CST at Week 24 
and Week 52 (PPS) 
LS Mean (SE) µm 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from baseline 
in CST at Week 24 
and Week 52 (FAS, 
available cases) 
LS Mean (SE) µm 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from baseline 
in CRLT at Week 24 
and Week 52 (FAS, 
available cases) 
LS Mean (SE) µm 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from baseline 
in BCVA at Week 24 
and Week 52  
(FAS, available case) 
(FAS, LOCF)  
(FAS, MAR) 
(FAS, MNAR) 
LS Mean (SE) letters 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Change from baseline 
in BCVA at Week 24 
and Week 52 (PPS) 
LS Mean (SE) letters 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
−122.70 (5.16) 
−110.60 (5.13) 
−12.10 (6.26) 
[−24.389, 0.194] 
−123.27 (5.05) 
−111.75 (5.01) 
−11.52 (6.13) 
[−23.554, 0.520] 
w24: −135.68 (4.09) 
w52: −139.55 (4.57) 
−126.09 (4.00) 
−124.46 (4.43) 
w24: −9.59 (4.84) [−19.095, 0.091] 
w52: −15.09 (5.36) [−25.617, 4.563] 
w24: −135.88 (4.05) 
w52: −139.96 (4.52) 
−126.39 (3.93) 
−125.05 (4.35) 
w24: −9.50 (4.76) [−18.850, −0.142] 
w52: −14.91 (5.28) [−25.272, −4.548] 
w24: −147.67 (5.07) 
w52: −161.00 (5.10) 
−138.41 (4.92) 
−149.46 (4.90) 
w24: −9.27 (5.96) [−20.969, 2.439] 
w52: −11.53 (5.95) [−23.211, 0.418] 
w24: 8.52 (0.65) 
w52: 9.79 (0.76) 
9.33 (0.64) 
10.41 (0.74) 
w24: −0.80 (0.77) [−2.314, 0.705] 
w52: −0.62 (0.90) [−2.375, 1.140] 
w24: −0.73 (0.79) [−2.275, 0.809] 
w52: −0.94 (0.90) [−2.712, 0.836] 
w24: −0.61 (0.77) [−2.108, 0.882] 
w52: −0.75 (0.90) [−2.480, 0.977] 
w24: −0.60 (0.78) [−2.123, 0.919] 
w52: −0.85 (0.92) [−2.619, 0.929] 
w24: 8.40 (0.66) 
w52: 9.82 (0.78) 
9.37 (0.65) 
10.39 (0.76) 
w24: −0.97 (0.79) [−2.517, 0.581] 
w52: −0.57 (0.92) [−2.374, 1.236] 
Page 83/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportion of Patients 
Who Lost Fewer than 
15 Letters in BCVA 
Compared with 
Baseline at Week 24 
and Week 52 (FAS, 
available 
cases)(patients) 
Proportion of Patients 
Who Gained 15 
Letters or More in 
BCVA Compared with 
Baseline at Week 24 
and Week 52 (FAS, 
available cases) 
(patients) 
Change from Baseline 
in Total CNV Size 
(Area of CNV) at 
Week 24 and Week 
52 (FAS, available 
cases) 
LS Mean (SE) mm2 
Mean Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
Proportion of Patients 
with Active CNV 
Leakage at Week 24 
and Week 52 (FAS, 
available cases) 
LS Mean (SE) patients 
adjusted  
Difference (SE) 
[95% CI] 
w24: 97.9% (326/333) 
w52: 96.8% (299/309) 
99.4% (336/338) 
97.9% (320/327) 
w24: 25.5% (85/333) 
w52: 34.6% (107/309) 
27.2% (92/338) 
37.6% (123/327) 
w24: −3.98 (0.27) 
w52: −5.17 (0.28) 
−3.91 (0.27) 
−4.62 (0.27) 
w24: −0.07 (0.33) [−0.711, 0.572] 
w52: −0.55 (0.33) [−1.200, 0.105] 
w24: 64.6% (210/325) 
w52: 52.1% (158/303) 
66.3% (218/329) 
59.1% (185/313) 
w24: −1.80 [−8.972, 5.364 
w52: −7.36 [−14.959, 0.243] 
2.4.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The clinical development programme to demonstrate biosimilarity regarding efficacy between SB11 
and US-Lucentis is based on one single pivotal Phase III trial. SB11-G31-AMD was a multinational, 
multicentre, 2-armed, randomised, double-blind, parallel group study in patients with neovascular age-
related macular degeneration. It is accepted that no further clinical studies have been conducted to 
demonstrate similarities in efficacy between SB11 and Lucentis in other indications approved for EU 
Lucentis. The selected patient population is considered a relevant and sensitive population for the 
detection of potential differences between SB11 and the reference product and was endorsed by the 
EMA. The applicant used the US Lucentis as the sole comparator in the Phase III study, which can be 
sufficient for submission of MAA as an acceptable bridging could be demonstrated on analytical level. 
705 patients were 1:1 randomised to receive either SB11 or US-Lucentis. Blocked randomisation was 
performed with fixed block size. No further stratification factors were considered. However, assigning 
only whole blocks to centres essentially stratifies treatment assignment by centre. This is considered 
adequate. The study was conducted in 9 countries and 75 study centres worldwide, including the four 
EU Member States Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, and Poland. The applicant stated that the study 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 84/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was conducted in accordance with the ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and were 
consistent with ICH Guidance and the applicable local regulatory requirements and laws. No issues 
regarding GCP have been identified.  
Eligible randomised patients received either SB11 or US Lucentis on Day 1 every 4 weeks into the 
study eye. Treatment was repeated up to Week 48 for a total of 13 doses of IP.  
The unblinding for a limited number of identified individuals of the Sponsor and/or CRO for the purpose 
of reporting of the interim analyses to the regulatory agency has been reported for the main clinical 
study report (CSR) at week 24 dated Oct 21, 2019. Blinding was maintained after the week 
24 efficacy readout. 
Overall, the design of the Phase III study was adequate and generally in line with previous EMA-
scientific advices. The selection criteria were globally consistent with the target population, and 
morphological criteria related to AMD were reasonable. The used treatment regimens for ranibizumab 
was in line with the Lucentis labelling. In- and exclusion criteria are based on those of the EU-Lucentis 
reference trial that led to approval and are considered appropriate. The most common reasons for 
patient discontinuation were consent withdrawal and adverse events. Slightly fewer patients completed 
study at Week 52 compared to patients of the originator arm Lucentis (87.5% in the SB11 and 92.4% 
in the Lucentis treatment group). Prior to 52 weeks, 12.5% in the SB11 and 7.6% in the Lucentis 
treatment groups discontinued treatment with the IP and the main reason was due to consent 
withdrawal.  
Study discontinuations due to IMP non-compliance occurred in 9 patients from the SB11 group and 
only in 1 patient from the Lucentis group. 6 of 9 patients discontinued due to adverse events, but 
these were assessed by the investigator as not IMP-related. 2 patients had safety reasons and one 
discontinuation was due to patient refusal. There is no information on discontinuation from the Lucentis 
arm, but as only one patient was affected, this is considered negligible. 
The MARINA and the PIER trial were used as the sole sources for the meta-analysis for the derivation 
of the equivalence margin. The two studies are the only studies that evaluate the effect of the 
comparator product compared to placebo. The equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm] preserves 50% 
of the upper 95% CI limit of the estimate of treatment effect size of the reference product over 
placebo. The Agency has noted in a SA that based on the anti-VEGF agents clinical data, at least 50 
μm difference would represent a change in retinal thickness that is deemed clinically relevant. 
Efficacy endpoints 
The primary endpoint is the `Change from baseline in CST at Week 4´ in the per-protocol-set (PPS) 
population. The full-analysis-set (FAS) population was used as a supportive population by the applicant 
for evaluation of the sensitivity of the main analysis, but from a regulatory perspective in an 
equivalence setting, the FAS has equal importance and for a robust interpretation should lead to 
similar results. The FAS included all subjects who were randomised at the randomisation visit save for 
patients who were not qualified for randomisation but were erroneously randomised into the study, 
provided these patients did not receive investigational product (IP) during the study period. This could 
be seen as a deviation from the ITT principle, but due to the very limited extent of the issue (only one 
subject was excluded for this reason) no concern is raised. 
The between group difference in the change from baseline CST was evaluated using an ANCOVA model 
with the baseline CST as a covariate and region (country) and treatment groups as factors. The 
applicant used several approaches to impute missing values, taking into account a variety of 
assumptions about the missing data process.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 85/146 
 
 
 
Other endpoints include the `Change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8´, which was of primary interest 
for MA in the US (FDA) and Korea (MFDS).  
Additionally, to VA, anatomical parameters (changes in CRLT, CNV area and leakage as well as retinal 
fluids) and Quality of Life were explored as secondary endpoints. Secondary time points for CST and 
BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 allowed investigation of the comparability of the maintenance of a 
comparable benefit over the time. FP/FA and OCT were suitable for anatomical parameters, whereas 
ETDRS procedure was appropriate to assess BCVA assessment. 
The primary and secondary endpoints were in line with the recommendation in the scientific advice and 
biosimilar guidelines (CHMP/437/04 Rev.1, EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev.1 and 
EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
In general, the applicant´s development programme to demonstrate similarity between SB11 and US-
Lucentis with respect to efficacy is considered adequate to support this application. The study design, 
study population, inclusion/exclusion criteria, and dose regimen were performed in line with the 
guidance on similar biological products and were in compliance with scientific advice obtained from the 
EMA. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The primary endpoint change from baseline in CST at Week 4 demonstrated a LS mean of −108.40 μm 
in the SB11 and −100.05 μm in the Lucentis arm, in the PPS. The point estimate for the adjusted 
treatment difference in CST of the change from baseline between SB11 and Lucentis was −8.35 μm 
[95% CI: −19.446, 2.747]. The two-sided 95% CI was completely contained within the pre-defined 
equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm]. The difference in the FAS population using available cases 
was −8.18 μm [95% CI: −19.054, 2.699], and the two-sided 95% CI was contained within the pre-
specified equivalence margin. Therefore, formal similarity of efficacy with regard to the primary 
efficacy endpoint could be demonstrated. 
Sensitivity analyses based on the primary endpoint for the FAS analysis population using multiple 
imputation (MI) for all subjects with missing data who dropped out from the study prior to the primary 
analysis time point were performed under MAR and MNAR assumptions as supporting evidence. The 
difference of the CST LS mean was −7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 2.984] and −7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 
2.984] for MI-MAR and MI-MNAR, respectively. By using the imputation methods, both 95% CIs lie 
within the pre-defined margin set by the EMA [-36 μm, 36 μm]. Results from both MI methods were 
similar to the results from the primary analysis. 
At the time of the primary endpoint change in CST at Week 4 from baseline, a total of 11 patients 
received fellow eye treatment (Lucentis). A total of 317 of 342 (92.7%) patients in the SB11 and 310 
(91.7%) of 338 patients in the Lucentis treatment groups did not receive Lucentis treatment in their 
fellow eye until Week 4. The applicant performed ad-hoc analysis of the change from baseline in CST at 
Week 4 excluding patients who had received fellow eye treatment at least once prior to Week 4. The 
mean difference was −9.38 μm with the 95% CI of [−21.100 μm, 2.341 μm]. The result is comparable 
to the results of the primary analysis of −8.35 μm [95% CI: −19.446 μm, 2.747 μm]. Treatment of 
the fellow eye does not seem to affect efficacy of the study eye. 
The LS mean observed for change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 for FAS using MAR was 6.18 
letters in the SB11 and 6.99 letters in the Lucentis arm. The adjusted treatment difference was −0.80 
letters and the 95% CI [−2.023, 0.415] of the difference lie entirely within the pre-defined equivalence 
margin of [-3 letters, 3 letters]. In addition, the point estimate for the difference in the PPS population 
was −0.76 letters [95% CI: −2.010, 0.487], thus supporting the requirements of the EU authorities.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 86/146 
 
 
 
Sensitivity analyses performed in the FAS using LOCF demonstrated a difference of −0.83 letters [95% 
CI: −2.064, 0.397]. An analysis performed in the FAS using MI-MNAR showed a difference of −0.77 
letters [95% CI: −1.998, 0.451]. The analysis performed in the FAS using available cases showed a 
difference of −0.82 letters [95% CI: −2.046, 0.398]. In all analyses the 95% CIs were within the pre-
defined margin set by the FDA [-3 letters, 3 letters]. The results of the sensitivity analysis were 
comparable to the results from the primary analysis and therefore support the robustness of the 
comparability between SB11 and Lucentis also in the VA.  
An improvement in BCVA from baseline was observed over a period of time in the FAS population using 
available cases and demonstrated higher point estimates for Lucentis. Results were generally 
comparable between the 2 treatment groups at Week 24 and Week 52 as 90% and ad-hoc 95% CIs lie 
within the equivalence margins (Week 24: −0.80; 90% CI of [−2.071, 0.462], 95% CI of [−2.314, 
0.705] and Week 52: −0.62; 90% CI of [−2.092, 0.857], 95% CI of [−2.375, 1.140]), however the 
trial was not powered for these comparisons and the margins not discussed in this regard. The change 
from baseline in BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using available cases were comparable in 
the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups (SB11: 8.52 letters, Lucentis: 9.33 letters at Week 24; SB11: 
9.79 letters, Lucentis: 10.41 letters at Week 52). The difference in PPS was -0.97 (95% CI: -2.517, 
0.581) at Week 24 and -0.57 (95% CI: -2.374, 1.236) at Week 52. 
The change from baseline in CST at Week 24 and Week 52 for the PPS were comparable between the 2 
treatment groups (SB11: −135.68 μm, Lucentis: −126.09 μm at Week 24; SB11: −139.55 μm, 
Lucentis: −124.46 μm at Week 52). The point estimate for the difference in change from baseline in 
CST at Week 24 was −9.59 μm [95% CI: −19.095, −0.091] and at Week 52 it was –15.09 μm [95% 
CI: −25.617, −4.563]. The point estimate for the difference in the FAS population using available 
cases was −9.50 with a 95% CI of [−18.850, −0.142] at Week 24 and −14.91 with a 95% CI of 
[−25.272, −4.548] at Week 52. Although, the 95% CIs were within the proposed ±36 μm, the upper 
bound of the margin for equivalence does not cover “0” indicating a statistically significant difference 
for the comparisons of CST over time. The applicant provided evidence of other clinical studies, 
indicating similar estimates in (DME-) patients where a change in thickness above 38 µm (or 11% for 
relative retinal thickness) is likely to be clinically meaningful. It was indicated that the absolute 
treatment difference [95% CI] in change from baseline in CST at Week 24 and Week 52 were all 
smaller than 38 μm or percent change of 11% (i.e., 44.9 μm which is 11% of baseline CST of 407.95 
μm). Hence, the observed increase in the difference in change from baseline on CST at week 24 and 
week 52, and the absolute treatment difference at week 24 and week 52, were well below the clinically 
significant threshold for change in retinal thickness.  
The change from baseline in CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using available cases were also 
comparable between the 2 treatment groups (SB11: −147.67 μm, Lucentis: −138.41 μm at Week 24; 
SB11: −161.00 μm, Lucentis: −149.46 μm at Week 52). The difference between SB11 and Lucentis 
was −9.27 μm at Week 24 with a 95% CI of [−20.969, 2.439] and –11.53 μm at Week 52 with a 95% 
CI of [−23.211, 0.148] showing a non-significant lower reduction for Lucentis.  
The proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15/10/5 letters but also gained 5/10/15 letters or more 
in BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 in the FAS using available cases was comparable between the two 
treatment arms SB11 and US-Lucentis.  
The change from baseline in total CNV size (area of CNV) at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using 
available cases were comparable in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups (SB11: −3.98 mm2, 
Lucentis: −3.91 mm2 at Week 24; SB11: −5.17 mm2, Lucentis: −4.62 mm2 at Week 52) and the 
proportion of subjects with active CNV leakage at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS were found to be 
decreased compared with baseline and comparable between the 2 treatment groups (SB11: 64.6% 
[210/325], Lucentis: 66.3% [218/329] subjects at Week 24). The proportion of patients with active 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 87/146 
 
 
 
CNV leakage was higher when treated with Lucentis than when treated with SB11 (SB11: 52.1% 
[158/303], Lucentis: 59.1% [185/313] subjects) at Week 52. 
In the FAS on available cases, the proportion of subjects without intra- or sub-retinal fluid increased 
over time, with a minimum of subjects without intra- or sub-retinal fluid at Week 0 (SB11: 26.2% 
[92/351], Lucentis: 24.6% [87/353] subjects) and higher proportion at Week 24 and Week 52 (SB11: 
76.2% [250/328], Lucentis: 80.9% [271/335] subjects at Week 24; SB11: 84.4% [260/308], 
Lucentis: 81.0% [265/327] subjects at Week 52). It was shown that the proportion of patients without 
intra- or subretinal fluid increased equally in both study arms over the 52-week period without showing 
a consistently higher improvement in one of the arms. 
An increase in the NEI VFQ-25 composite score in the FAS using available cases was observed at Week 
24 and Week 52 in both the SB11 and the Lucentis treatment groups (SB11: 79.29, Lucentis: 82.57 at 
Week 24; SB11: 80.54, Lucentis: 84.03 at Week 52). Overall, the mean change in the NEI VFQ-25 
composite score in Lucentis-treated eyes improved slightly more at both 24- and 52-week visits 
compared to SB11 treatment. However, the mean change still seems comparable between the two 
treatment groups (SB11: 3.80, Lucentis: 4.98 at Week 24; SB11: 4.54, Lucentis: 6.47 at Week 52). 
Although the 95% CIs of the investigated secondary endpoints are not significant, data indicate that 
Lucentis seems to be slightly more effective than SB11. 
Subgroup analysis for overall ADA result (Positive, Negative, Inconclusive), lesion type at baseline (No 
CNV, Classic CNV, Classic and Occult, Occult, Disciform Scar), total lesion area (≤4DA vs. ＞4DA) at 
baseline and country were performed. In general, the subgroup analyses of the efficacy variables CST 
and BCVA were comparable regarding prognostic factors (total lesion area, lesion type, country) and 
immunogenicity results in terms of BCVA.  
A difference in efficacy in terms of mean change in CST from baseline up at Week 4 was observed in 
ADA positive subjects between the treatments (−73.72 μm and −20.20 μm for the SB11 arm and the 
Lucentis arm, respectively). The difference (SB11-Lucentis) in mean change in CST from baseline up to 
Week 4 is -53.53 with 95% CI (-111.076, 4.021) for ADA positive patients, which does not lie within 
the 95% CI (-22.251, 1.373) of the ADA negative subgroup, but the 95% CIs overlap and the overall 
point estimate of −8.35 μm lies within both 95% CIs. Overall, the limited number of actual ADA-
positive subjects, as well as the fact that an opposite outcome was seen between the EMA- and FDA-
facing primary endpoint (CST and BCVA, respectively), whereby the outcome of CST was in favor of 
SB11 and the change of BCVA was in favor of Lucentis, make it not possible to infer clinical meaning 
from these findings and it is entirely possible that this represents a chance finding. 
Another difference in mean change in CST from baseline up at Week 4 was observed in the Indian 
subgroup (mean difference: −52.31; 95% CI: −106.305, 1.68), but this is also likely to be attributed 
to low sample sizes in these groups and the magnitude is not to an extent that affects the overall 
conclusion on consistency in treatment effect across subgroups. The 95% CIs of the difference in 
change from baseline in CST for all subgroups seem to cover the overall point estimate of −8.35 μm. 
For the subgroup of patients with “occult CNV” containing 201/208 (under LOCF imputation) the mean 
difference in BCVA at Week 8 was -1.53 with 95% CI [−3.00, −0.06] and does not include 0 (whereas 
all other imputation methods included 0), but the overall treatment effect of -0.8 letters was covered 
in the 95% CI. 
The subgroup of “classic CNV” containing 27 patients per treatment arm showed a marked difference in 
terms of mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 compared to the overall population, i.e. it had 
a mean difference of 7.49 letters in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 with 95% CI: 
[3.613, 11.365], which does not include the overall treatment effect of -0.8 letters. The applicant has 
identified possible demographic reasons (slight imbalance in total lesion/CNV area and central retinal 
lesion thickness) where larger baseline CNV lesion size was observed in the Lucentis treatment arm. 
According to the retrospective subgroup analysis of 12-month data from the ANCHOR study but also 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 88/146 
 
 
 
other trial results, CNV lesion size was a predictor of the VA outcome. Accordingly, a less advanced 
disease (including a lower baseline VA score and a smaller baseline CNV lesion size) was associated 
with greater gain in letters with ranibizumab treatment. It can be assumed that the baseline 
imbalances and the relatively small sample sizes led to the difference of the classic CNV subgroup. 
2.4.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
From an efficacy perspective, clinical biosimilarity between SB11 and Lucentis is demonstrated. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
Adverse event profile reported for reference product Lucentis 
The majority of AEs reported following administration of Lucentis are related to the intravitreal 
injection procedure. The most frequently reported ocular adverse reactions following injection of 
Lucentis are: eye pain, ocular hyperaemia, increased intraocular pressure, vitritis, vitreous 
detachment, retinal haemorrhage, visual disturbance, vitreous floaters, conjunctival haemorrhage, eye 
irritation, foreign body sensation in eyes, increased lacrimation, blepharitis, dry eye and eye pruritus. 
The most frequently reported non-ocular adverse reactions are headache, nasopharyngitis and 
arthralgia. Less frequently reported, but more serious, adverse reactions include endophthalmitis, 
blindness, retinal detachment, retinal tear and iatrogenic traumatic cataract (refer to SmPC Lucentis 
2020). 
Class effects known to be observed with systemic VEGF inhibition are hypertension, arterial 
thromboembolism, cardiac ischemia, haemorrhages, proteinuria/nephrotic syndrome, delayed wound 
healing and intestinal perforation.  
Systemic adverse events including non-ocular haemorrhages and arterial thromboembolic events 
(ATEs), defined as nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI), or vascular death (including 
death of unknown cause), have been reported following ITV injection of VEGF inhibitors, as 
ranibizumab binds with high affinity to the VEGF-A isoforms (e.g., VEGF110, VEGF121 and VEGF165), 
thereby preventing binding of VEGF-A to its receptors VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2. Although a low incidence 
rate of ATEs was observed in Lucentis clinical trials and there were no major differences between the 
ranibizumab treatment group and the control group, there is a potential risk of ATEs following ITV use 
of VEGF inhibitors [Lucentis SmPC, Lucentis US PI, Triantafylla et al., 2014]. 
ITV injections, including those with ranibizumab, have been associated with endophthalmitis, 
intraocular inflammation, rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, retinal tear, and iatrogenic traumatic 
cataract. Transient increases in intraocular pressure (IOP) have been seen within 60minutes of 
injection of Lucentis. Sustained IOP increases have also been identified [Lucentis SmPC, Section 4.8]. 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for an immune response in patients treated with 
Lucentis. As for the immune response of ranibizumab across all indications, the pretreatment incidence 
of immunoreactivity to Lucentis was 0-5% across AMD, DME, PDR, and RVO. After monthly dosing with 
Lucentis for 6-24 months, antibodies to Lucentis were detected in approximately 1-9% of patients 
[Lucentis US PI]. Intraocular inflammations that increase in severity may be a clinical sign attributable 
to intraocular antibody formation. 
Clinical development: Phase III Study SB11-G31-AMD 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 89/146 
 
 
 
Safety of SB11 was assessed by monitoring treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs, ocular/non-
ocular), serious adverse events (SAEs, ocular/non-ocular), adverse events of special interest (AESI), 
clinical laboratory evaluations, ophthalmic assessments, and as well as immunogenicity. The adverse 
events (AEs) were coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA, version 20.1). 
The safety endpoints in the clinical Phase III study SB11-G31-AMD were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Incidence of ocular AEs or serious ocular AEs 
Incidence of non-ocular AEs or serious non-ocular AEs 
Adverse event of special interest (AESI) 
Clinical laboratory tests including haematology, biochemistry, and urinalysis  
Vital signs 
Patient exposure 
Comparative safety data from the pivotal phase III study (SB11-G31-AMD) involved 704 randomised 
patients (SB11 n=350, Lucentis n=354), most of whom (n=634, 89.9%) completed the proposed 
study period (48 weeks of treatment, last assessment at 52 weeks).  
Table 43 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 90/146 
 
 
 
 
Overall exposure to treatment was comparable between treatment groups, but tended to drift apart in 
the higher exposure duration bands (309 days and onward). 
For demographic and baseline characteristics, please refer to Results of Clinical Efficacy. Overall, 
baseline characteristics were well balanced between treatment arms, and the population that was 
investigated was sufficiently sensitive for the evaluation of similarity from a safety (and efficacy) 
perspective. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 91/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
TEAEs overall 
Adverse Events Overview  
A total of 512 (72.7%) subjects experienced at least 1 AE during the study (study or fellow eye; non-
ocular). A total of 511 (72.6%) patients reported 1807 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) at 
any time after the first dose of the IP until the End of Study (EOS). The nature, incidence and severity 
of the reported TEAEs were generally comparable between the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups, 
with some numerical imbalances for certain TEAEs, severe ocular adverse events and TEAES that were 
considered ‘related’ to IP, favouring the Lucentis treatment arm.  
Ocular TEAEs – study eye 
The majority of the ocular TEAEs in the study eye were mild or moderate in severity. A total of 10 
ocular TEAEs in the study eye reported in 7 (2.0%) patients in the SB11 treatment group and 5 ocular 
TEAEs in the study eye reported in 4 (1.1%) patients in the Lucentis treatment group were severe. 
Including the ad hoc analysis on IP-related TEAES by SOC and PT with an incidence of ≥0.5%, 23 
patients (6.6%) reported 29 ‘related’-considered AEs for SB11 and 16 patients (4.5%) reported 29 
‘related’ AEs for Lucentis.  
Ocular TEAEs – fellow eye 
The majority of the ocular TEAEs in the fellow eye were mild or moderate in severity. A total of 6 
ocular TEAEs in the fellow eye reported in 4 (1.1%) patients in the SB11 treatment group and 2 ocular 
TEAEs in the fellow eye reported in 2 (0.6%) patients in the Lucentis treatment group were severe. 
None were considered related. 
Non-ocular TEAEs 
The majority of the non-ocular TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity. A total of 30 non-ocular 
TEAEs reported in 22 (6.3%) patients in the SB11 treatment group and 22 non-ocular TEAEs reported 
in 22 (6.2%) patients in the Lucentis treatment group were severe.  
Two patients (0.6%) reported overall two ‘related’ AEs in the SB11 arm and three patients (0.4% 
reported overall 6 ‘related’ AEs in the Lucentis arm. 
Table 44: Summary of All Adverse Events (Safety Set, Study SB11-G31-AMD) (Ad- hoc 
Analysis) 
SB11 
N=350 
US Lucentis 
N=354 
Total 
N=704 
Number of Patients Experiencing 
No AEs 
n 
(%) 
94 
(26.9) 
E 
- 
n 
(%) 
98 
(27.7) 
E 
- 
n 
(%) 
192  (27.3) 
E 
- 
AEs 
Pre-AEs 
TEAEs 
TEAE severity 
Mild 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
256  (73.1)  946  256  (72.3)  945 
512  (72.7)  1891 
27 
(7.7)  36 
28 
(7.9)  48 
55 
(7.8) 
84 
255  (72.9)  910  256  (72.3)  897 
511  (72.6)  1807 
117  (33.4)  567  122  (34.5)  592 
239  (33.9)  1159 
Page 92/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moderate 
Severe 
TEAE causality 
Related 
Not related 
106  (30.3)  297  107  (30.2)  276 
213  (30.3)  573 
32 
(9.1)  46 
27 
(7.6)  29 
59 
(8.4) 
75 
27 
(7.7)  35 
16 
(4.5)  33 
43 
(6.1) 
68 
228  (65.1)  875  240  (67.8)  864 
468  (66.5)  1739 
Ocular TEAEs in the study eye 
112  (32.0)  202  105  (29.7)  228 
217  (30.8)  430 
Ocular TEAE severity (study eye) 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
77 
(22.0)  139 
72 
(20.3)  165 
149  (21.2)  304 
28 
(8.0)  53 
29 
(8.2)  58 
7 
(2.0)  10 
4 
(1.1) 
5 
57 
11 
(8.1)  111 
(1.6) 
15 
Ocular TEAE causality (study eye) 
Related 
Not related 
23 
(6.6)  31 
15 
(4.2)  29 
38 
(5.4) 
60 
89 
(25.4)  171 
90 
(25.4)  199 
179  (25.4)  370 
Ocular TEAEs in the fellow eye  92 
(26.3)  118 
77 
(21.8)  117 
169  (24.0)  235 
Number of Patients Experiencing 
Ocular TEAE severity (fellow eye) 
SB1
1 
N=3
50 
(%) 
n 
US Lucentis 
N=354 
E 
n 
(%)  E 
n 
Tota
l 
N=7
04 
(%) 
E 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
62 
(17.7)  81 
49 
(13.8)  84 
111  (15.8)  165 
26 
(7.4)  31 
26 
(7.3)  31 
52 
(7.4) 
62 
4 
(1.1) 
6 
2 
(0.6) 
2 
6 
(0.9) 
8 
Ocular TEAE causality (fellow eye) 
Related 
Non-related 
Non-ocular TEAEs 
Non-ocular TEAE severity 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
Non-ocular TEAE causality 
Related 
Non-related 
AESI 
AESI category 
Category 1 
Category 2 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
92 
(26.3)  118 
77 
(21.8)  117 
169  (24.0)  235 
194  (55.4)  590  205  (57.9)  552 
399  (56.7)  1142 
91 
(26.0)  347  101  (28.5)  343 
192  (27.3)  690 
81 
(23.1)  213 
82 
(23.2)  187 
163  (23.2)  400 
22 
(6.3)  30 
22 
(6.2)  22 
44 
(6.3) 
52 
4 
(1.1) 
4 
1 
(0.3) 
4 
5 
(0.7) 
8 
190  (54.3)  586  204  (57.6)  548 
394  (56.0)  1134 
8 
(2.3)  13 
8 
(2.3)  16 
16 
(2.3) 
29 
0 
3 
(0.0) 
(0.9) 
0 
4 
3 
3 
(0.8) 
3 
(0.8)  11 
3 
6 
(0.4) 
3 
(0.9) 
15 
Page 93/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Category 3 
Category 4 
Category 5 
Category 6 
Intraocular inflammation TEAEs 
Intraocular inflammation TEAEs in 
the study eye 
Intraocular inflammation TEAEs in 
the fellow eye 
TEAEs leading to IP 
discontinuation 
Ocular TEAEs leading to IP 
discontinuation in the study eye 
Ocular TEAEs leading to IP 
discontinuation in the fellow eye 
2 
4 
0 
1 
4 
4 
(0.6) 
(1.1) 
(0.0) 
(0.3) 
(1.1) 
(1.1) 
2 
6 
0 
1 
6 
6 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
0 
2 
4 
0 
3 
4 
4 
(0.3) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.4) 
(0.6) 
(0.6) 
2 
6 
0 
3 
6 
6 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
9 
7 
(2.6)  12 
(2.0) 
9 
5 
4 
(1.4) 
(1.1) 
8 
6 
14 
(2.0) 
20 
11 
(1.6) 
15 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
Number of Patients Experiencing 
Non-ocular TEAEs leading to IP 
discontinuation 
SAEs 
SAE causality 
Related 
Not related 
Ocular SAEs in the study eye 
Ocular SAE causality (study eye) 
Related 
Not related 
Ocular SAEs in the fellow eye 
Ocular SAE causality (fellow eye) 
Related 
Not related 
SB1
1 
N=3
50 
(%) 
(0.6) 
n 
2 
US Lucentis 
N=354 
E 
3 
n 
1 
(%) 
(0.3) 
E 
2 
n 
3 
Tota
l 
N=7
04 
(%) 
(0.4) 
E 
5 
52 
(14.9) 
71 
52 
(14.7) 
65 
104 
(14.8) 
136 
8 
44 
10 
(2.3) 
(12.6) 
(2.9) 
10 
61 
14 
4 
6 
3 
0 
3 
(1.1) 
(1.7) 
(0.9) 
(0.0) 
(0.9) 
6 
8 
5 
0 
5 
3 
(0.8) 
3 
49 
(13.8) 
62 
8 
3 
5 
2 
0 
2 
(2.3) 
(0.8) 
(1.4) 
(0.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
8 
3 
5 
2 
0 
2 
11 
93 
18 
7 
11 
5 
0 
5 
(1.6) 
13 
(13.2) 
123 
(2.6) 
22 
(1.0) 
(1.6) 
(0.7) 
(0.0) 
(0.7) 
9 
13 
7 
0 
7 
Non-ocular SAEs 
41 
(11.7) 
52 
42 
(11.9) 
55 
83 
(11.8) 
107 
Non-ocular SAE causality 
Related 
Not related 
Serious TEAEs 
Serious TEAEs causality 
4 
37 
50 
(1.1) 
(10.6) 
(14.3) 
4 
48 
69 
0 
42 
51 
(0.0) 
(11.9) 
(14.4) 
0 
55 
62 
4 
(0.6) 
4 
79 
(11.2) 
103 
101 
(14.3) 
131 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 94/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related 
Not related 
Ocular serious TEAEs in the study 
eye 
Ocular serious TEAEs in the fellow 
eye 
8 
(2.3) 
42 
(12.0) 
10 
59 
10 
(2.9)  14 
3 
48 
8 
(0.8) 
3 
(13.6) 
59 
11 
90 
(1.6) 
13 
(12.8) 
118 
(2.3) 
8 
18 
(2.6)  22 
3 
(0.9) 
5 
2 
(0.6) 
2 
5 
(0.7) 
7 
Non-ocular serious TEAEs 
39 
(11.1) 
50 
41 
(11.6) 
52 
80 
(11.4) 
102 
TEAEs leading to death 
2 
(0.6) 
2 
4 
(1.1) 
4 
6 
(0.9) 
6 
AE = adverse event; AESI = adverse event of special interest; E = frequency of events; IP = 
investigational product; 
IOP = intraocular pressure; ITV = intravitreal; MedDRA = Medical Dictionary for Regulatory 
Activities; N = total number of patients; n = number of patients with events; SAE = serious 
adverse event; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse event 
AEs were coded to System Organ Class and Preferred Term using MedDRA version 20.1 
coding dictionary. Percentages were based on number of patients in the Safety Set. 
If a patient had the multiple conditions with different severity (or causality), then the patient 
was counted only once at the worst severity (or worst causality, i.e. related). 
AESI category 
Category 1: Any case of new onset IOP of > 21 mmHg that does not respond to treatment, 
except the transient pressure rise observed within an hour after ITV injection of IP; 
Note that the initial table has been updated throughout the procedure with regard to the causality 
assessment only (ad-hoc analysis). 
Table 45 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 95/146 
 
 
 
 
Note that the table above is incorrect in that causality assessment was further updated for the 
following SOC/PT (with relationship to treatment): 
Eye disorders: SB11: n= 18 (5.1%, E=23) and Lucentis: n= 9 (2.5%, E=14) 
Iridocyclitis: SB11: n=3 (0.9%, E=3) and Lucentis n=0 (0.0%, E=0) 
Ocular TEAEs in the Study Eye  
The ocular TEAEs in the study eye occurring ≥ 5% of patients in any treatment group by Preferred 
Term (PT) are provided in Table 46. 
Table 46 
The table below presents the reported eye disorders by PT and any other AEs that occurred with 
incidence of at least 2%. 
Ocular TEAEs in the Study Eye by SOC and PT (only eye disorders and other AEs with incidence 
≥2% of Safety Set) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 96/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 47 
All severe TEAEs by SOC and PT in the study eye are provided in the table below. 
Table 48 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 97/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular TEAEs in the Fellow Eye 
Ocular TEAEs in the fellow eye occurring ≥ 5% of the patients in any treatment group by PT are 
provided in the table below.  
Table 49 
All of severe TEAEs by SOC and PT in the fellow eye are provided in the table below. 
Table 50 
 (Of note, none were considered related to IP.) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 98/146 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Non-ocular TEAEs 
Table 51 
The table below presents any TEAEs and number of events (study and fellow eye, non-ocular) by PT in 
≥2% of patients in any treatment group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 99/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 52 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 100/146 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 101/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All severe non- ocular TEAEs by SOC are provided in the table below (ad hoc analysis). 
Table 53 
AESI 
The following AEs in the study eye were classified as adverse events of special interest (AESIs) in 
this study using 6 different categories which were pre-defined in the study protocol: 
•  Category 1: Any case of new onset IOP of > 21 mmHg that did not respond to treatment, except 
the transient pressure rise observed within an hour after ITV injection of IP 
•  Category 2: Any case of IOP ≥ 35 mmHg, at any time, that required treatment 
•  Category 3: Any case of intraocular infection such as endophthalmitis 
•  Category 4: Any case of intraocular inflammation such as iritis, vitritis, and iridocyclitis 
•  Category 5: Iatrogenic traumatic cataract 
•  Category 6: Arterial thromboembolic events defined as non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial 
infarction, or vascular death (including deaths of unknown cause) 
The table below presents a summary of Adverse Events of Special Interest (Safety Set). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 102/146 
 
 
 
 
Table 54 
The results of all categories of AESI analyses subdivided by SOC and PT are presented in Table 55 
below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 103/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 55 
Category 1: Any case of new onset Intraocular Pressure (IOP) of > 21 mmHg that does not respond 
to treatment, except the transient pressure rise observed within an hour after ITV Injection of IP 
Three out of 29 events were in this category (3 [0.8%] patients in the Lucentis treatment group). All of 
them were moderate in intensity. In a conservative ad-hoc approach, all three events were considered 
related to IP. No patients were permanently discontinued from IP. 
Category 2: Any case of IOP ≥ 35 mmHg, at any time, that required treatment 
Fifteen out of 29 events were in this category (3 [0.9%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 3 
[0.8%] patients in the US Lucentis treatment group). Of these 15 events of increased IOP, 8 events 
were reported by 1 patient from the Lucentis treatment group, 2 events were reported by 2 patients 
from each treatment group, and 1 event was each reported by 2 patients in the SB11 treatment group 
and 1 patient in the Lucentis treatment group. All of them were moderate in intensity, with the 
exception of 1 event in 1 patient from the SB11 treatment group, which was reported as severe. In a 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 104/146 
 
 
 
 
conservative ad-hoc analysis, all 15 events were considered related to IP and no patients were 
permanently discontinued from IP. 
Category 3: Any case of intraocular infection such as endophthalmitis 
Two out of 29 events were in this category (2 [0.6%] patients in the SB11 treatment group). Out of 
these 2 events of endophthalmitis, one event was moderate in intensity while the other was severe in 
intensity. Both events were treated with vitrectomy, ITV injection of antibiotics, and topical 
steroid/antibiotics. None of them were considered related to the IP by the Investigator. The 
Sponsor considered both as related to treatment. One patient was permanently discontinued from IP. 
The ADA status was not reported. 
Category 4: Any case of intraocular inflammation such as iritis, vitritis, and iridocyclitis 
Six out of overall 29 AESIs were in this category (all of which occurred in 4 [1.1%] patients in the 
SB11 treatment group).  
- One patient experienced 3 events of intraocular inflammation with 1 event of iridocyclitis with mild 
intensity and 2 events of vitritis with mild and moderate intensity, respectively (all considered 
related to IP by the Investigator). These events were managed with topical steroid.  
- One patient experienced 1 event of uveitis with severe intensity (not considered related to IP by 
Investigator, but related by Sponsor) and treated with subconjunctival steroid/antibiotics/anti-
cholinergics, topical steroid/antibiotics/anti-cholinergics, intralymphatic enzymes/anti-inflammatory 
agents, and intravenous steroid/antibiotics.  
- One patient experienced 1 event of iridocyclitis with mild intensity (not considered related to IP by 
the Investigator) and was managed by topical steroid and antibiotics (of note, the same patient also 
experienced endophthalmitis).  
- Another patient also experienced 1 event of iridocyclitis with severe intensity (considered related 
to IP by the Investigator and Sponsor) and treated with microinvasive vitrectomy, subconjunctival 
steroid/antibiotics, and topical steroid/antibiotics and resulted in permanent discontinuation of IP. 
Among TEAEs for IOI, only one event of iridocyclitis required permanent IP discontinuation. One 
patient had a positive ADA status. 
Category 5: Iatrogenic traumatic cataract 
No events were reported in this category. 
Category 6: Arterial thromboembolic events defined as non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial 
infarction, or vascular death (including deaths of unknown as cause) 
Three deaths with unknown cause occurred that fitted the definition of category 6; one (0.3%) in the 
SB11 treatment arm and two (0.6%) in the Lucentis treatment group. None of them were considered 
related to the IP.  
Subgroup Analysis of Overall Anti-drug Antibody up to End of Study 
Ocular Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (Study Eye/Fellow Eye) by Overall Anti-drug Antibody 
Result up to End of Study (Week 52) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 105/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 56 
Non-ocular Treatment-emergent Adverse Events by Overall Anti-drug Antibody Result up to End of 
Study (Week 52) 
A total of 32 non-ocular TEAEs were reported in 17 patients (16 events in 8 patients in the SB11 
treatment group and 16 events in the 9 patients in the Lucentis treatment group) with an overall ADA 
positive result up to EOS. At the SOC level, the most commonly reported non-ocular TEAEs 
among the patients who were determined as overall ADA positive up to EOS were infections 
and infestations (5 events in 5 patients the SB11 treatment group and 6 events in 4 patients in the 
Lucentis treatment group) and gastrointestinal disorders (2 events in 2 patients in the SB11 
treatment group and 2 events in 2 patients in the Lucentis treatment group). 
A total of 1052 non-ocular TEAEs were reported in 354 patients (546 events in 173 patients in the 
SB11 treatment group and 506 events in 181 patients in the Lucentis treatment group) with an overall 
ADA negative result up to EOS. At the SOC level, the most commonly reported non-ocular 
TEAEs who were determined as overall ADA negative up to EOS were infections and 
infestations (144 events in 93 patients the SB11 treatment group and 115 events in 83 patients in 
the Lucentis treatment group), musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (53 events in 34 
patients in the SB11 treatment group and 51 events in 36 patients in the Lucentis treatment group), 
and investigations (42 events in 28 patients in the SB11 treatment group and 54 events in 31 
patients in the Lucentis treatment group). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 106/146 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup Analysis of Safety Profiles in the Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set 
Overall no clear imbalance between treatment groups is apparent in this subgroup analysis. For details, 
please refer to the D80 clinical assessment report. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Definition Serious Adverse Event 
A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Results in death 
Is life-threatening 
Requires inpatient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation 
Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity 
Results in congenital anomaly/birth defects 
Is medically important 
In addition, sight-threatening ocular AE was reported as SAE if it met one or more of the 
following criteria: 
A decrease in VA of ≥ 30 letters from the last assessment of VA 
A decrease in VA to the level of light perception or worse 
Requirement of surgical intervention (e.g., conventional surgery, vitreous tap or biopsy with 
ITV injection of antibiotics, laser treatment, ITV gas injection, or retinal cryopexy) to 
prevent permanent loss of vision 
Severe intraocular inflammation (e.g., 4+ anterior chamber cell/flare or 4+ vitritis) 
In the Investigator’s opinion, medical intervention was required to prevent permanent loss of 
vision 
Serious Ocular TEAEs in the Study Eye 
A total of 22 ocular SAEs were reported in 18 (2.6%) patients (10 [2.9%] patients in the SB11 
treatment group and 8 [2.3%] patients in the Lucentis treatment group) in the study eye during the 
study (Table 57). In terms of causality, a total of 7 (1.0%) patients with 9 ocular SAEs in the 
study eye were related to IP (4 [1.1%] patients in the SB11 and 3 [0.8%] patients in the Lucentis 
treatment group) (SB11: vitritis, iridocyclitis, subretinal fluid, visual acuity reduced/macular 
oedema/retinal pigment epithelial tear; Lucentis: retinal haemorrhage, subretinal fluid, macular 
degeneration). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 107/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 57 
Serious Ocular TEAEs in the Fellow Eye 
A total of 5 (0.7%) patients (3 [0.9%] patients in the SB11 and 2 [0.6%] patients in the Lucentis 
treatment group) had 7 ocular SAEs in the fellow eye during the study. None of the ocular SAEs in 
the fellow eye were related to the IP (Table 58). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 108/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 58 
Serious Non-ocular TEAEs  
41 [11.7%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 42 [11.9%] patients in the Lucentis treatment 
group reported non-ocular SAEs during the study (Table 59). In terms of causality, the majority of the 
non-ocular SAEs were considered not related to the IP, and 2 (0.3%) patients with 2 non-ocular 
SAEs were related to IP (2 [0.6%] patients in the SB11 treatment group) (cerebral haemorrhage 
and cardiac congestive failure). Throughout the procedure, after amendment of causality assessment, 
2 non-ocular SAEs were newly considered as related to IP: ‘Iliac artery embolism’ and ‘Peripheral 
ischaemia’ by PT. Both of these IP-related non-ocular SAEs were ‘Vascular disorders’ by SOC (2 [0.6%] 
patients in the SB11 treatment group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 109/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 59 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 110/146 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 111/146 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 112/146 
 
 
 
 
Deaths 
A total of 6 (0.9%) patients died during the study: 2 (0.6%) patients in the SB11 treatment group with 
primary cause of death reported as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for 1 (0.3%) patient and 
unknown for the other one (0.3%) patient; and 4 (1.1%) patients in the Lucentis treatment group with 
primary cause of death reported as infection for 1 (0.3%) patient and pneumonia for 1 (0.3%) patient, 
and unknown for the other two 2 (0.6%) patients. At least five of six patients had serious concomitant 
diseases that possibly offer better explanation for the events of death than the IP. One patient 
(Lucentis treatment arm) was not known to have concomitant non-ocular diseases and only scarce 
information is available on the circumstances of death. No further conclusion on any potential 
relatedness to treatment (Lucentis) can be drawn.  
Laboratory findings 
Haematology 
Haematology assessment was performed at Screening, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36, and Week 52. 
Summary statistics of the baseline values, values measured at each time point. No discernible 
differences in the changes of mean values for haematology parameters (haemoglobin, haematocrit, 
platelets, leukocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, and eosinophils) were observed 
between the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups. 
For each haematology parameter, the majority of patients had values in the normal range at 
baseline and remained normal. There were no noteworthy shifts observed from baseline to Week 
52 in any of the haematology parameters. Few of the shift from baselines for the parameters 
were reported as TEAEs. Two of them (i.e., 2 events of anaemia) were considered as SAE (1 [0.3%] 
patient each in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment group). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 113/146 
 
 
 
 
Only a few patients had clinically meaningful abnormalities in haematology parameters in both the 
SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups. During the study, few patients had abnormal haematology 
parameters which were reported as AEs: 
- 
anaemia (5 [1.4%] patients in the SB11 and 2 [0.6%] patients in the Lucentis treatment groups);  
-  white blood cell count increased (1 [0.3%] patient in the SB11 and 3 [0.8%] patients in the 
Lucentis treatment groups);  
- 
- 
- 
neutrophil count increased (2 [0.6%] patients in the SB11 and 1 [0.3%] patient in the Lucentis 
treatment groups);  
iron deficiency anaemia, iron deficiency, neutrophil count decreased, and platelet count decreased 
(1 [0.3%] patient each in both treatment groups);  
cytopenia, febrile neutropenia, haemorrhagic anaemia, leucocytosis, thrombocytopenia, 
lymphocyte count decreased, and platelet count increased (1 [0.3%] patient each in the SB11 
treatment group);  
- 
erythropenia, haemoglobin decreased, and international normalised ratio increased (1 [0.3%] 
patient each in the Lucentis treatment group). 
Biochemistry 
Biochemistry assessment was performed at Screening, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36 and Week 52. No 
discernible differences in the changes of mean values for biochemistry parameters (sodium, potassium, 
creatinine, glucose [random], calcium, phosphate, bilirubin, albumin, alanine aminotransferase [ALT], 
aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase [ALP], and lactate dehydrogenase [LDH]) 
were observed between the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups. 
For each serum chemistry parameter, the majority of patients had values in the normal range at 
baseline and remained normal. There were no noteworthy shifts observed from baseline to Week 52 in 
any of the chemistry parameters, except for 1 (0.3%) patient in the Lucentis treatment group at Week 
24 (parameter: glucose, random; baseline: high; Week 24: low), and another patient in the Lucentis 
treatment group at Week 52 (parameter: phosphate; baseline: low; Week 52: high). Few of the shift 
from baselines for the parameters were reported as TEAEs, but none of them were considered as SAE. 
Only a few patients had clinically meaningful abnormalities in haematology parameters in both the 
SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups. During the study, few patients had abnormal blood chemistry 
parameters which were reported as AEs: 
- 
blood potassium increased (4 [1.1%] patients in the SB11 and 6 [1.7%] patients in the Lucentis 
treatment groups);  
-  ALT increased and blood glucose increased (3 [0.9%] patients each in the SB11 and 3 [0.8%] 
patients each in the Lucentis treatment groups);  
- 
- 
blood ALP increased (3 [0.9%] patients in the SB11 and 2 [0.6%] patients in the Lucentis 
treatment groups);  
blood creatinine increased (3 [0.9%] patients in the SB11 and 1 [0.3%] patient in the Lucentis 
treatment groups);  
-  AST increased (1 [0.3%] patient in the SB11 and 3 [0.8%] patients in the Lucentis treatment 
groups);  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 114/146 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood LDH increased and hyperkalaemia (1 [0.3%] patient each in the SB11 and 2 [0.6%] patients 
each in the Lucentis treatment groups);  
hyperglycaemia (2 [0.6%] patients in the SB11 and 1 [0.3%] patient in the Lucentis treatment 
groups);  
blood bilirubin increased and blood phosphorus decreased (2 [0.6%] patients each in the SB11 
treatment group);  
blood sodium increased (2 [0.6%] patients in the Lucentis treatment group);  
blood LDH decreased, blood phosphorus increased, liver function test increased, hypokalaemia, 
and hypoglycaemia (1 [0.3%] patient each in the SB11 treatment group);  
-  C-reactive protein increased and lipids decreased (1 [0.3%] patient each in the Lucentis treatment 
group);  
- 
hyperlipidaemia and hypomagnesaemia (1 [0.3%] patient each in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment 
groups). 
Urinalysis 
Urinalysis assessment was performed at Screening, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36, and Week 52.  
During the study, most of the patients had normal values of urinalysis parameters at each timepoint 
and only few had abnormal, clinically significant values: 
- 
Four patients (1 [0.3%] patient in the SB11 and 3 [0.8%] patients in the Lucentis treatment 
groups) had blood in urine.  
-  Glucose present in urine was reported in 1 [0.3%] patient in the SB11 treatment group.  
-  Nitrite urine, protein present in urine, and ketone body present in urine was reported in 1 [0.3%] 
patient each in the Lucentis treatment group  
-  white blood cells present in urine was reported in 2 [0.6%] patients in the Lucentis treatment 
group. 
The proportion of patients with each result (normal, abnormal, not clinically significant [NCS], and 
abnormal, clinically significant [CS]) were comparable between the SB11 and Lucentis treatment 
groups. 
Vital signs, physical findings, and other observations related to safety 
There were no clinically meaningful changes in mean values from baseline to Week 52 for haematology 
and chemistry parameters in both the treatment groups. Analyses of vital signs did not reveal any 
clinically relevant difference across the treatment groups. 
Intraocular pressure measured was comparable for both the treatment groups at each timepoint. 
The number of subjects with cells and flare in the anterior chamber and vitreous cells were very low in 
both the treatment groups and there was no notable difference between the 2 treatment groups. The 
majority of subjects had vitreous opacity grade 0 or trace across all visits and the number of subjects 
reporting each grade were comparable in both the treatment groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 115/146 
 
 
 
On indirect ophthalmoscopy assessment, the proportion of subjects with each result (normal, 
abnormal, not clinically significant, and abnormal, clinically significant) at both pre-dose and post-dose 
timepoints were comparable between the 2 treatment groups. 
Immunological events 
Evaluation of Anti-drug Antibodies (ADAs) development 
It has been reported that repeated ITV administrations of ranibizumab was associated with the 
development of ADAs in a small percentage of patients [Lucentis SmPC; Lucentis US PI]. For the 
immune response of ranibizumab across all indications, the pre-treatment incidence of 
immunoreactivity to Lucentis was 0 to 5%, including age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic 
macular oedema (DME), proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), and retinal vein occlusion (RVO). 
After monthly dosing with Lucentis for 6 to 24 months, antibodies to Lucentis were detected in 
approximately 1 to 9% of patients [Lucentis US PI]. Of note, among patients with neovascular AMD 
patients with the highest levels of immunoreactivity, iritis or vitritis was observed in some patients. 
However, intraocular inflammation was not observed in patients with DME and DR at baseline, or RVO 
patients with the highest levels of immunoreactivity [Lucentis US PI]. 
Study SB11-G31-AMD: In this study, sampling schedules were designed to obtain pre-dose samples 
at Week 0 before treatment and post-treatment given the risk of ADA development, half-life of the 
drug, and drug tolerance. To assess the impact of immunogenicity on safety, PK, and efficacy, 
immunogenicity sampling was performed before the administration of the drug during the treatment 
period and incorporated into the PK schedule for parallel sample collection. Blood sampling for 
immunogenicity were collected prior to ITV injection of Investigational Product (IP) at Week 0 (Day 1), 
Week 4, Week 8, Week 16, Week 24, and Week 36. Blood sampling for immunogenicity was collected 
at any time during the visit at Week 1 and Week 52 (End of Study [EOS] Visit) or Early Termination 
(ET) visit. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 116/146 
 
 
 
Table 60
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 117/146 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 118/146 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 61 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 119/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 62: (Excerpt for week 36 and 52): Incidence of Anti-drug Antibody by Titer, Visit, and 
Treatment Group (Safety Set, Study SB11-G31-AMD) 
Highest ADA titres were found in two patients: ADA titre for one patient was 800 at Week 36, and the 
ADA titre for the other patient was 3200 at Week 36 and Week 52 (Table 63). Among them, only latter 
patient with ADA titre of 3200 showed neutralising capacity. No influence of the high ADA titres (and 
its neutralising capacity) on the BCVA and CST (efficacy) was evident. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 120/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 63 
Positive ADA results were reported for one out of four patients with intraocular inflammation (IOI). An 
overview with timepoints is shown of immunogenicity assessment results (Table 64) and AEs (Table 
65) for this patient. No clear conclusions are drawn regarding the temporal relationship between IOI 
events and ADAs, although a relationship is considered possible. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 121/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 64 
Table 65 
Similar time-related information has been provided for both ADA-positive subjects that reported 
endophthalmitis in response to a CHMP request. The first patients experienced endophthalmitis of 
severe intensity on Mar 18, 2019 (Study Day 228) and the event endophthalmitis was resolved on May 
17, 2019 (Study Day 288). Prior to the occurrence of the event, a total of 6 immunogenicity 
assessments was performed and the assessment result was ‘ADA-negative’ at all 6 timepoints, 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 122/146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
including baseline (Week 0). During the event (Study Day 228 to Study Day 288), an immunogenicity 
assessment was performed at Week 36 visit (Study Day 258) and an ‘ADA-negative’ result was 
obtained, same as for previous results. After event resolution, an immunogenicity assessment was 
performed at early termination (ET) visit (Study Day 288) and an ‘ADA negative’ result was obtained. 
The second patients experienced endophthalmitis of moderate intensity on Oct 25, 2018 (Study Day 
144) and the event endophthalmitis was resolved with sequelae on Jan 14, 2019 (Study Day 225). 
Prior to the occurrence of the event, a total of 5 immunogenicity assessments was performed and the 
assessment result was ‘ADA-negative’ at all 5 timepoints, including baseline (Week 0). During the 
event (Study Day 144 to 225), an immunogenicity assessment was performed at Week 24 visit (Study 
Day 169) and an ‘ADA-negative’ result was obtained, same as for previous results. The patient 
discontinued from the study and blood sampling for immunogenicity assessment was done at ET visit 
(Study Day 255); however, analysis was not performed due to sampling loss. Nevertheless, based on 
the previous data reported for the patient, it is unlikely that the event endophthalmitis was caused by 
ADA. 
ADA results for all patients with immunogenicity assessment at ET visit (25 of 71 patients in total that 
earlier discontinued from treatment [n=17 and n=8 for SB11 and Lucentis, respectively]) are negative 
(Table 66 below). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 123/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 66 
Of 653 patients with available immunogenicity assessment results at the end of study (EOS) or the ET 
visit, 26 patients (12 patients in the SB11 treatment group and 14 patients in the Lucentis treatment 
group) had positive ADA results at that time point and 22 of 26 patients had increased titre of ADA at 
EOS compared to baseline (Table 67 below). 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 124/146 
 
 
 
     
 
 
Table 67 
The drug tolerance of the SB11 ADA assay used to measure ADAs in serum obtained from neovascular 
AMD patients in Study SB11-G31-AMD was up to 100 ng/mL. Based on the maximum ranibizumab 
concentration (6.7 ng/mL) in the Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set of Study SB11-G31-AMD, it is unlikely 
that ADA measurements were interfered by drug. Immunogenicity assessment results for three 
patients with positive ADA results in the Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set (PKS) are provided below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 125/146 
 
 
 
     
 
 
Table 68 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Subject disposition 
For reasons for discontinuation before week 24 and before week 52 per treatment, refer to Clinical 
efficacy. 
Of the 705 subjects who were randomised, 634 (89.9%) subjects completed 52 weeks of the study. 
Prior to Week 52, 71 (10.1%) subjects discontinued treatment with the IP. The most common reasons 
for withdrawal were consent withdrawal by subject (25 [3.5%] subjects) and adverse event (13 
[1.8%] subjects). 
From all patients who discontinued the study treatment before week 52, 7/44 (2.0%) from the SB11 
treatment group vs. 6/27 (1.7%) from the Lucentis treated group were due to AE. Discontinuation due 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 126/146 
 
 
 
  
 
to death or other reasons occurred in 2 (0.6%) and 3 (0.9%) patients in the SB11 group, and in 3 
(0.8%) and 2 (0.6%) patients in the Lucentis group, respectively.  
TEAEs Leading to IP Discontinuation 
A higher proportion of patients discontinued in the SB11 compared to the Lucentis group, though in 
absolute numbers the overall discontinuations are low (Table 69). 
A total of 14 (2.0%) patients had 20 TEAEs that led to discontinuation of IP. Of 14 patients, 11 (1.6%) 
patients (9 events in 7 [2.0%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 6 events in 4 [1.1%] patients 
in the Lucentis treatment group) discontinued treatment with IP due to ocular TEAEs in the study eye 
and 3 (0.4%) patients (3 events in 2 [0.6%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 2 events in 1 
[0.3%] patient in the Lucentis treatment group) discontinued treatment with IP due to non-ocular 
TEAEs (Table below). 
The most frequent events leading to IP discontinuation at the PT level were retinal haemorrhage and 
sub-retinal fluid (2 [0.3%] patients each). All other events were reported by 1 (0.1%) patient each. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 127/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 69 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 128/146 
 
 
 
 
IP-related serious adverse events (SAEs) leading to IP discontinuation occurred in 4 (1.1%) patients in 
the SB11 treatment group and 3 (0.8%) patients in the Lucentis treatment group. IP-related SAEs-
causative discontinuations per treatment group by SOC and PT are presented in Table 70. Summary 
listing of the 3 non-ocular SAEs that led to discontinuation per treatment group including nature and 
timing of the causative event are given in Table 71. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 129/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 70 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 130/146 
 
 
 
 
Table 71 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 131/146 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
To compare the safety profiles of SB11 and US-Lucentis, one pivotal Phase III study including a total of 
705 randomised patients diagnosed with neovascular AMD (randomised 1:1) was conducted.  
Neovascular AMD is considered a sufficiently sensitive population to investigate clinical biosimilarity 
from a safety perspective, as there is comparability in terms of target receptor, mode of action and 
safety across authorised indications, i.e., DME, RVO, CNV and PDR. In addition, immunogenicity of 
ranibizumab was reported to be overall low across indications (up to 9%).  
The monthly administration of IP is in agreement with the anticipated posology in patients with the 
highest treatment need and is, from a safety perspective, most sensitive, as higher exposure levels 
can be expected in comparison with a treat and extend regimen and is therefore supported.   
Per treatment arm, 350 and 354 patients were included in the safety analysis set, respectively for 
SB11 and Lucentis. The present sample size is acceptable to conclude on comparability in terms of 
common or very common adverse effects. However, it is too small to draw robust conclusions with 
regard to less frequently occurring adverse events. This seems especially important to note with regard 
to the evaluation of the more serious, less common adverse reactions, such as endophthalmitis, 
blindness, retinal detachment, retinal tear, iatrogenic traumatic cataract or important systemic AEs 
such as arterial thromboembolic events or non-ocular haemorrhages. Of note, an unexpected, low 
occurrence of those ocular and non-ocular adverse events anticipated to occur ‘commonly/very 
commonly’ based on Lucentis treatment experience further complicates interpretability of the results.  
The applicant justified based on more recent studies investigating intra-vitreal VEGF inhibitors that 
with increasing experience, AEs tended to be reported with lower frequencies as they might be 
considered by investigators to be no longer considered as reportable events. Nevertheless, this may 
reflect an underreporting of events, which then evidently would result in a loss of sensitivity/power to 
detect minor differences between treatments, should such exist. This is regarded an uncertainty in this 
study programme. However, since the observed most common AEs do not indicate significant 
differences between treatment groups and, from a totality of evidence perspective, similarity can be 
concluded between SB11 and Lucentis, no concern is raised. 
The majority of patients completed the study (48 weeks of treatment, last assessment at 52 weeks) 
(87.5 and 92.4% for SB11 and Lucentis, respectively). At 24 weeks of treatment, both treatment 
groups showed similar data on exposure and discontinuation. After 24 weeks, the number of patients 
discontinuing treatment is increasingly higher in the SB11 arm compared to the Lucentis group. Mean 
exposure time was shorter in the SB11 treatment group (317.9, SD 61.84 days) vs. Lucentis (323.2, 
SD 57.93 days).  The methods to determine duration of IP exposure and end of study have been 
clarified. The difference between numbers of patients that were exposed at least 337 days to IP (60.9 
and 68.1% in the SB11 and Lucentis arm, respectively) and the numbers of patients that completed 
the phase III study and reached EOS at week 52 (87.5 and 92.4% with SB11 and Lucentis, 
respectively) was explained by the use of either true exposure days or calendar days, respectively. In 
addition, due to the dosing protocol that allowed dosing visits within 7 days of schedule date, 
calculated exposure days varied for similar calendar days. 
Overall, a higher proportion of patients reported ocular TEAEs in the study eye in the SB11 (n=112 
[32.0%], E=202) compared to the Lucentis (n=105 [29.7%], E=228) arm. Ocular adverse events that 
were expected to occur (very) commonly (per Lucentis SmPC) were overall comparable between 
treatment arms in the present study, although it is notable that most AEs occurred at a lower rate than 
expected.  
The most frequently reported ocular TEAEs (study eye) were: ‘intraocular pressure increased’ (6.6 and 
7.7%), followed by ‘conjunctival haemorrhage’ (4.6 and 5.1% of patients), ‘visual acuity reduced’ (4.3 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 132/146 
 
 
 
and 2.8%), ‘cataract’ (2.9 and 1.4%), and vitreous detachment’ (2.3 and 1.4%) in the SB11 and 
Lucentis arm, respectively. Next to ‘intraocular pressure increased’, ‘ocular hypertension’ was 
separately reported, with a comparable imbalance in favour of SB11-treated patients (0.9% vs. 2.3%). 
Posterior capsule opacification occurred more frequently in the SB11 compared to the Lucentis group 
(1.7% vs. 0.3%, respectively). Similarly, infections and infestations (conjunctivitis, endopthalmitis) 
were more frequently reported in the SB11 arm. 
In terms of causality, a slight imbalance between both products could be observed, pointing towards a 
more frequent occurrence of ‘related’ ocular events in the SB11 (n=19 [5.4%], E=25 vs. n=9 [2.5%], 
E=15). In addition, severe TEAEs were reported more frequently in the SB11 arm (n=7 [2.0%], E=10 
vs. n=4 [1.1%], E=5). Causality assessment was further discussed for select serious adverse events of 
interest and serious AEs that led to discontinuation. An ad hoc analysis was presented, with updated 
causality assessment by ad-hoc categorisation of Category 1 and 2 AESIs to be considered as ‘related’ 
by default, which raises no concern. Narratives for other select serious AEs were presented and 
causality assessment justified and in some cases a more prudent approach was adopted and the 
events considered as related to treatment. Corresponding tables were updated accordingly. Overall, 
and keeping in mind the very low numbers involved and the inherent associated uncertainties, it is 
agreed with the applicant ’s analysis that no clinically meaningful differences seem to exist between 
both groups when it comes to IP-related SAEs that led to IP discontinuation.   
Overall, only few ocular SAEs in the study were reported, and very few more with SB11 (study eye 
n=10 [2.9 %], E=14) compared to Lucentis (study eye n=8 [2.3 %], E=8; fellow eye n=2 [0.6%], 
E=2). Serious infections of the study eye (i.e., endophtalmitis, n=2 [0.6%], E=2) occurred only in the 
SB11 arm. Other ocular SAEs occurred with a low incidence and no evident pattern of a difference 
between treatment groups.  
A numerical imbalance seems noteworthy for the AESIs intraocular infection and inflammation. All 
reported events (endophthalmitis n=2 [0.6%], E=2; iritis/vitritis/iridocyclitis n=4 [1.1%], E=6) 
occurred in the SB11 arm only. IP was permanently discontinued in both events of infection and in one 
case of inflammation. The applicant’s thorough discussion on the occurrence of these events is 
acknowledged. Based on detailed review of these events, it is concluded that there appears to be no 
relationship to positive ADA status. The imbalance is overall difficult to interpret due to the overall low 
incidence of SAE/AESI and should be viewed in conjunction with the overall safety profile and the 
totality of evidence. 
Overall, a comparable proportion of patients reported non-ocular TEAEs (n=194, [55.4%], E=590 for 
SB11 vs. n= 205 [57.9%], E=552 for Lucentis). Nasopharyngitis was the most frequently reported 
TEAE and occurred with a similar rate for both groups (10.6 vs. 9.9% for SB11/Lucentis). The second 
most frequent non-ocular TEAE was hypertension, which was more frequently reported in the Lucentis 
treatment arm (4.9 vs. 7.3% for SB11/Lucentis). Other (systemic) adverse events that are expected to 
occur commonly according to the Lucentis SmPC are anaemia, hypersensitivity, anxiety, cough, nausea 
and allergic reactions.  However, most adverse events were reported at lower than expected rates in 
the present study, which hamper robust conclusions on comparability. Among the mentioned AEs, 
headache was reported slightly more frequently in the SB11 arm (4.0 vs. 2.8% for SB11/Lucentis), as 
were also anaemia (1.4 and 0.6%) and nausea (1.4 vs. 0.3%). Further numerical imbalances were 
noted for ‘urinary tract infections’ (4.0 vs. 2.3%), ‘haematuria’ (2.0 vs. 0.6%), ‘bronchitis’ (3.7% and 
1.7%) and ‘upper respiratory tract infections’ (2.6% and 0.8%). Arthralgia occurred at comparable 
rates (1.7 vs. 2.0% for SB11/Lucentis).  
Non-ocular SAEs occurred with comparable (low) frequencies in both treatment arms.  
It should be noted that for intraocular anti-VEGF treatments, concerns were raised on potential 
adverse effects resulting from the systemic suppression of these treatments. These particularly relate 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 133/146 
 
 
 
to cardiovascular and arterial thromboembolic effects, renal and gastrointestinal effects and wound-
healing complications. With ranibizumab, systemic VEGF-inhibiting activity is expected to be low, when 
compared to other VEGF inhibitors such as bevacizumab or aflibercept. However, based on the trend of 
increased systemic concentration levels observed in the small subset of patients that provided 
evaluable PK data, the non-ocular safety profile and the evaluation of the mentioned class effects 
seems of particular interest for the present procedure. It is however considered likely that the study is 
insensitive to detect differences in the incidence of more uncommon AEs (potentially) related to the 
higher exposure under SB11 treatment.  
Upon request, the applicant provided an integrated discussion on whether the tendency of an 
unfavourable safety profile for SB11 compared to Lucentis may be attributable to an increased 
systemic exposure. No concern arises from the review of the quality data or from the safety data based 
on subjects with highest concentration levels. Ad-hoc analyses of ocular TEAEs in the study eye and 
non-ocular TEAEs for the PKS were provided. As only a small number of patients were compared, these 
are difficult to interpret. It is acknowledged that the analyses did not show any notable differences 
between treatment arms. In addition, a tabulated comparative summary of AEs that may potentially be 
associated with systemic VEGF inhibition was provided, which did not show a pattern of a systematic 
difference between both treatment groups.  In summary, the observed trend for an overexposure in 
SB11- compared to Lucentis-treated patients observed in this study does not seem to translate into an 
increased incidence of AEs potentially related to systemic VEGF inhibition. Although, overall, a slightly 
more unfavourable safety profile is notable with SB11 compared to Lucentis treatment, this trend is 
derived from a small number of events and must therefore be cautiously interpreted.  
Laboratory and vital sign findings did not reveal any potential traces of significant difference between 
both treatment groups. 
Immunogenicity  
Of the 350 and 354 patients treated with SB11 and Lucentis, respectively, a total of 330 patients for 
SB11 and 327 patients for Lucentis contributed available ADA results for overall ADA up to Week 52. 
Most of the patients were determined as ADA negative at each time point, the incidence of positive 
ADAs to ranibizumab was low and overall comparable between treatment arms. A maximum was 
observed at week 52 with 9/257 (3.5%) and 12/267 (4.5%) positive ADA counts for SB11 and 
Lucentis, respectively. The majority of the detected ADA in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups 
was non-neutralizing. At each time point, no more than two patients had neutralizing antibodies and 
there was no obvious trend of a difference between treatment arms in terms of incidence at each time 
point. Cumulatively, the incidence of overall ADAs over time was also comparable between the two 
treatment groups. The number of patients with an overall ADA positive result up to Week 52 was 
14/330 (4.2%) in the SB11 and 18/327 (5.5%) in the Lucentis treatment groups. When comparing the 
ADA incidence by titre, the distribution of ADA titres between the SB11 and Lucentis treatment arms 
were generally comparable (mostly ranged up to 1:200 and occasionally were as high as 1:400). It is, 
though, notable that the highest titres were observed in the SB11 treatment group only (week 36: 1 
subject with 1:800; week 52: 1 subject each with titre 1:800 and 1:3200). No correlation between 
ADA-positivity and PK results could be concluded based on additionally requested information. No clear 
conclusions are drawn regarding the temporal relationship between IOI events and ADAs, although a 
relationship is considered possible.  
The applicant provided data on patients in whom an immunogenicity assessment was performed at 
early termination (ET) (25 of 71 patients in total that earlier discontinued from treatment [n=17 and 
n=8 for SB11 and Lucentis, respectively]) and on those who were ADA positive at either EOS or ET (26 
of 653 available assessments of 705 randomised patients in total [n= 12 and n=14 for SB11 and 
Lucentis, respectively]). Argumentation from the applicant for why not all patients underwent EOS/ET 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 134/146 
 
 
 
(immunogenicity) assessment can be followed. Patients terminating the study prematurely with 
available immunogenicity evaluation were all ADA-negative. Of the 26 ADA-positive patients at EOS, 
22 had increased titre compared to baseline, of which one had an unresolved IP-related AE at EOS 
(‘Hyalosis asteroid’) and was therefore followed until ADA-negative. Titres were low and comparable to 
data during the study (all ≤100, except for one of each titre of 200, 400 and 3200).  Upon request, 
further data and graphics were provided for the three high antibody titres (1:800 at week 36, and 
1:3200 at week 36 and week 52). According to the data, these results belong to two patients who had 
positive ADA titres varying from 1:200 to 1:800, but non-neutralizing ADA, and positive ADA titres at 
week 24 and 52 (1:3200) with NAb, respectively. It is agreed with the applicant that graphically no 
influence of the high ADA titres (and its neutralizing capacity) on the BCVA and CST (efficacy) is 
evident. TEAE did not occur during the study period, respectively only during ADA-negative period. It 
can be agreed upon that immunogenicity in the concerned patients with the highest ADA titres did not 
apparently diminish the efficacy or cause safety issues. 
No safety in special populations was investigated, on ground that the product would be biosimilar in 
nature and thus that these points would be similar to the knowledge on special population as 
elucidated for the innovator product. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In summary, the safety profile after administration of SB11- and Lucentis in neovascular AMD patients 
observed in this study is generally comparable, with a trend towards a lower tolerability of SB11 
compared to the reference product in particular for adverse events that occurred with a low frequency 
(i.e., were reported in less than 5% of patients), namely severe/serious AEs, AEs considered related to 
IP or AESIs. Due to the small numbers of observed cases, these numerical imbalances must however 
be cautiously interpreted and it is concluded that they do not challenge the biosimilarity conclusion 
between SB11 and Lucentis. 
2.6.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
Table 72: Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Infectious endophthalmitis 
Intraocular inflammation 
Retinal detachment and retinal tear 
Intraocular pressure increase 
Missing information 
Visudyne (verteporfin-PDT) given in combination with ranibizumab 
(PM) 
Long term effects on the progression of the condition CNV (other 
than neovascular AMD) 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 135/146 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Table 73 
On-going and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study 
Status 
Summary of 
objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestones 
Due dates 
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of 
the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific 
Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances 
Not applicable 
Category 3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Not applicable 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 74 
Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by 
safety concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Infectious 
<Routine risk minimisation 
endophthalmitis 
measures> 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
detection> 
and 6.6; PL Sections 2, 3, 4. 
Specific AE follow-up 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
questionnaire 
only. 
Restricted medical-prescription-only 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
medication 
<Additional risk minimisation 
measures>  
Educational plan for adult patients 
activities> 
None 
Intraocular 
inflammation 
<Routine risk minimisation 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
measures> 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4; PL Sections 
detection> 
2, 4. 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
only. 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 136/146 
 
 
 
Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by 
safety concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Restricted medical prescription-only 
medication 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities> 
<Additional risk minimisation 
None 
measures> 
Educational plan for adult patients 
Retinal detachment 
<Routine risk minimisation 
and retinal tear 
measures> 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8; PL Sections 
detection> 
2, 4. 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
only. 
None 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
Restricted medical prescription-only 
medication 
activities> 
None 
<Additional risk minimisation 
measures> 
Educational plan for adult patients. 
Intraocular pressure 
<Routine risk minimisation 
increase 
measures> 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8, 4.9; PL 
detection> 
Sections 2, 4. 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
only. 
None 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
Restricted medical prescription-only 
activities> 
medication  
None 
<Additional risk minimisation 
measures> 
Educational plan for adult patients. 
Visudyne (verteporfin-
<Routine risk minimisation 
PDT) given in 
measures> 
combination with 
ranibizumab (PM) 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection> 
None 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 137/146 
 
 
 
Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by 
safety concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities> 
None 
SmPC Section 5.1. 
This missing information is not 
mentioned in PL. 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
only. 
Restricted medical prescription-only 
medication  
<Additional risk minimisation 
measures> 
None 
Long term effects on 
<Routine risk minimisation 
the progression of the 
measures> 
condition CNV (other 
<Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
than neovascular 
SmPC Section 5.1. 
detection> 
AMD) 
This missing information is not 
None 
mentioned in PL. 
Pack size: One vial for single use 
<Additional pharmacovigilance 
only. 
activities> 
Restricted medical prescription-only 
None 
medication  
<Additional risk minimisation 
measures>  
None 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 is acceptable.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 138/146 
 
 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable for the following reasons: 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Lucentis. The bridging report submitted by the applicant 
has been found acceptable. 
2.8.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Byooviz (ranibizumab) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as it is a biological product authorised after 1 January 2011.  
Therefore, the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that 
this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
2.8.3.  Third party intervention during the evaluation of Byooviz 
On 28 July 2021, the EMA received, after the adoption of the CHMP positive opinion, correspondence 
from a third party which expressed concerns about the name “Byooviz” and the possible confusion with 
the name of another medicinal product.  
The CHMP, consulting its Name Review Group, considered the intervention and concluded that the 
arguments put forward by the third party did not impact the CHMP conclusion that the name “Byooviz” 
is acceptable. However, further differentiation of the packaging design was requested and satisfactory 
package was submitted on 5 August 2021. A revised opinion was adopted by the CHMP on 09 August 
2021 in order reflect the above. 
3.  Biosimilarity assessment 
3.1.  Comparability exercise and indications claimed 
Byooviz (also referred to as SB11) is developed as a biosimilar to the reference product Lucentis. The 
administration route (intravitreal), posology, and indications are according to the reference product as 
described in the Lucentis SmPC except for the treatment of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) with zone 
I (stage1+, 2+, 3 or 3+), zone II (stage 3+) or AP-ROP (aggressive posterior ROP) disease of ROP in 
preterm infants. 
The marketing authorisation is claimed for 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 139/146 
 
 
 
•The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
•The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
•The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
•The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein occlusion 
(branch RVO or central RVO) 
•The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) 
Quality 
In general, a comprehensive biosimilarity evaluation for demonstration of a comparable quality profile 
of SB11 and its medicinal reference product Lucentis has been conducted in accordance with the 
relevant scientific EMA guidelines and the given CHMP advice. The biosimilarity evaluation started with 
a comprehensive characterisation of EU- and US-sourced Lucentis lots. As US-sourced Lucentis has 
been used as the sole comparator in the phase 3 clinical trial, a three-way comparison was performed 
between SB11, EU Lucentis, and US Lucentis. SB11 batches were evaluated against similarity range 
based on EU Lucentis as a reference product, and similarity range based on US Lucentis as a clinical 
comparator. In addition, the comparability between EU and US Lucentis was evaluated. EU- and US-
sourced Lucentis lots have been characterised with respect to the key quality attributes. 
Summary of clinical data 
The clinical developmental programme comprises one clinical study SB11-G31-AMD. The pivotal 
efficacy and safety study was a randomised (1:1), double-blind, multiple dose (0.5 mg/kg per ITV 
injection every 4 weeks) parallel group study for a duration of up to 48 weeks comparing the efficacy, 
safety, immunogenicity between SB11 and US-Lucentis in 705 subjects with neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration. PK was evaluated in a subset of patients (25 and 29 patients for SB11 and 
Lucentis, respectively). 
The clinical development plan for SB11 was aligned with the EMA guidelines 
[EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev.1] and endorsed by the EMA through SA 
[EMA/CHMP/SAWP/403022/2016, Jun 23, 2016; EMA/CHMP/SAWP/646420/2016, Oct 13, 2016].   
3.2.  Results supporting biosimilarity 
Quality 
A large panel of standard and state-of-the-art methods has been used to characterize and compare the 
most relevant physicochemical and biological quality attributes of the ranibizumab molecule.  
Overall, the presented data on the physicochemical comparison indicate that SB11 is structurally 
similar to its reference medicinal product Lucentis. A few minor differences seen in the SE-HPLC, non-
reducing CE-SDS and in the quantity (in the mentioned analysis one of the included SB11 batches was 
slightly outside of the EU similarity ranges) could be sufficiently justified and do not jeopardize the 
biosimilarity claim. Also for biological activity the data available so far indicate a similar behaviour of 
SB11 and Lucentis. Finally, comparative stress testing supports the conclusion that SB11 and Lucentis 
show similar degradation profiles supporting similarity across SB11, EU and US Lucentis. 
Clinical 
Pharmacokinetics 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 140/146 
 
 
 
PK profiles between the SB11 and Lucentis were compared in the clinical Phase III Study SB11-G31-
AMD in a sub-set of patients with neovascular AMD. Of the 705 patients randomised, 54 (7.7%) 
patients (25 [7.1%] patients in the SB11 and 29 [8.2%] patients in the Lucentis treatment groups) 
were included in Pharmacokinetic Analysis Set (PKS).  
Pre-dose Ctrough levels and post-dose (near) ‘Cmax’ levels (24-72 hours) were summarised using 
descriptive statistics at pre-specified time points (baseline, week 1, 4, 8, 16, 24, 36 and pre-baseline 
only for week 52).  
Throughout all post-dose timepoints, arithmetic mean concentrations ranged between 1,346.5 pg/mL 
and 1,952.2 pg/mL for SB11 and 771.2 pg/mL and 1,298.0 pg/mL for Lucentis. The observed 
variability (CV%) ranged between 63.61% and 96.03% for SB11 and between 39.39% and 97.73% for 
Lucentis for post-dose timepoints and error bars for both treatments overlapped.  
Efficacy 
Primary endpoint: In the PPS population, the change from baseline in CST at Week 4 was −108.40 μm 
in the SB11 and −100.05 μm in the Lucentis arm and the point estimate of −8.35 μm [95% CI: 
−19.446, 2.747] for the adjusted treatment difference. The two-sided 95% CI was completely 
contained within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [−36 μm, 36 μm]. The difference in the FAS 
population using available cases was −8.18 μm [95% CI: −19.054, 2.699], and the two-sided 95% CI 
was also contained within the pre-specified equivalence margin. Sensitivity analyses based on the 
primary endpoint for the FAS analysis population using multiple imputation (MI) for all subjects with 
missing data who dropped out from the study prior to the primary analysis timepoint were performed 
under MAR and MNAR assumptions as supporting evidence. The difference of the CST LS mean was 
−7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 2.984] and −7.90 [95% CI: −18.776, 2.984] for MI-MAR and MI-MNAR, 
respectively. 
Secondary endpoints: The adjusted treatment difference for change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 
in the FAS using MI-MAR was −0.80 letters and the 95% CI [−2.023, 0.415] of the difference lie 
entirely within the pre-defined equivalence margin of [-3 letters, 3 letters]. In addition, the point 
estimate for the difference in the PPS population was −0.76 letters [95% CI: −2.010, 0.487], thus 
supporting the requirements of the EU authorities. Sensitivity analyses performed in the FAS using 
available cases demonstrated a difference of −0.82 letters [95% CI: −2.046, 0.398], in the FAS using 
LOCF demonstrated a difference of −0.83 letters [95% CI: −2.064, 0.397] and in the FAS using MI-
MNAR showed a difference of −0.77 letters [95% CI: −1.998, 0.451]. In all analyses the 95% CIs 
were within the bioequivalence margin set by the FDA [-3 letters, 3 letters]. 
The change from baseline in BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using available cases were 
comparable in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups (SB11: 8.52 letters, Lucentis: 9.33 letters at 
Week 24; SB11: 9.79 letters, Lucentis: 10.41 letters at Week 52). The difference is non-significant and 
the 90% and ad-hoc 95% CIs of the difference between the groups lie within the equivalence margins 
chosen for BCVA at Week 8 (Week 24: −0.80; 90% CI of [−2.071, 0.462], 95% CI of [−2.314, 0.705] 
and Week 52: −0.62; 90% CI of [−2.092, 0.857], 95% CI of [−2.375, 1.140]) in the FAS using 
available cases.  
The change from baseline in CRLT at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using available cases were also 
comparable between the 2 treatment groups (SB11: −147.67 μm, Lucentis: −138.41 μm at Week 24; 
SB11: −161.00 μm, Lucentis: −149.46 μm at Week 52).  
The proportion of patients who lost fewer than 15/10/5 letters but also gained 5/10/15 letters of more 
in BCVA at Week 24 and Week 52 in the FAS using available cases was comparable between the two 
treatment arms SB11 and US-Lucentis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 141/146 
 
 
 
The change from baseline in total CNV size at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS using available cases 
were comparable in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment groups (SB11: −3.98 mm2, Lucentis: −3.91 mm2 
at Week 24; SB11: −5.17 mm2, Lucentis: −4.62 mm2 at Week 52) and the proportion of subjects with 
active CNV leakage at Week 24 and Week 52 for the FAS were found to be decreased compared with 
baseline and comparable between the 2 treatment groups (SB11: 64.6% [210/325], Lucentis: 66.3% 
[218/329] subjects at Week 24).  
It was shown that the proportion of patients without intra- or subretinal fluid increased equally in both 
study arms over the 52-week period without showing a consistent higher improvement in one of the 
arms. 
Overall, the mean change in the NEI VFQ-25 composite score is comparable between the two 
treatment groups (SB11: 3.80, Lucentis: 4.98 at Week 24; SB11: 4.54, Lucentis: 6.47 at Week 52). 
Most of the subgroup analyses of the efficacy variables CST and BCVA were comparable regarding 
prognostic factors (total lesion area, lesion type, country) and immunogenicity results. 
Safety 
The Safety Analysis Set comprised 350 SB11-treated patients and 354 Lucentis-treated patients. This 
sample size (up to week 52) should in principle be sufficiently large to allow to conclude on 
comparability in terms of common or very common adverse effects (but see caveat under section on 
uncertainties). A total of 307 [87.5%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 327 [92.4%] patients 
in the Lucentis treatment group completed the study until Week 52. 
A total of 112 (32.0%) subjects in the SB11 group and 105 [29.7%] subjects in the Lucentis had 
ocular TEAEs in the study eye. The most common ocular TEAE in the study eye was intraocular 
pressure increased (23 [6.6%] patients of which 7 [2.0%, E=8] IP-related in the SB11 treatment 
group and 26 [7.3%] patients of which 7 [2.0%, E=15] IP related in the Lucentis treatment group) 
followed by conjunctival haemorrhage (16 [4.6%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 18 [5.1%] 
patients in the Lucentis treatment group). The majority of the ocular TEAEs in the study eye were mild 
or moderate in severity. Overall the incidence of mild and moderate ocular TEAEs in the study eye 
were comparable between both treatment groups. The majority of the ocular TEAEs in the study eye 
were not related to the IP.  
Only few ocular SAEs in the study were reported in 10 patients [2.9 %, E=14] in the SB11 arm and 8 
patients [2.3 %, E=8] in the Lucentis arm. The incidence of SAEs in the study eye with possible 
relationship to treatment was similar for SB11 (n=4 [1.1%]) and Lucentis (n=3 [0.8%]) treatment 
arms and concerned the following AEs: vitritis, iridocyclitis, subretinal fluid, visual acuity 
reduced/macular oedema/retinal pigment epithelial tear (SB11 arm); retinal haemorrhage, subretinal 
fluid, macular degeneration (Lucentis arm). Ocular SAEs in three of the SB11 and all of the Lucentis 
patients led to IP discontinuation. SAEs of the fellow eye were all considered ‘not related’.  
A comparable proportion of patients in both treatment groups reported non-ocular TEAEs (n=194, 
[55.4%], E=590 for SB11 vs. n= 205 [57.9%], E 552 for Lucentis). Nasopharyngitis was the most 
frequently reported TEAE (10.6 vs. 9.9% for SB11/Lucentis), followed by hypertension (4.9 vs. 7.3% 
for SB11/Lucentis). The majority of the ocular TEAEs in the study eye were mild or moderate in 
severity. The incidence of mild, moderate and severe non-ocular TEAEs were comparable between both 
treatment groups. Non-ocular TEAES were considered as ‘related’ in only 2 patients (0.6%) with 2 
events in SB11 and 1 patient (0.3%) with 4 events in Lucentis treatment arms. 
The most frequent AESIs were increased intraocular pressure (Categories 1 and 2), reported by 3 
[0.9%] patients in the SB11 treatment group and 6 [1.7%] patients in the Lucentis treatment group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 142/146 
 
 
 
Comparable patterns of laboratory findings (haematology; biochemistry; urinalysis; vital signs, 
physical findings, and other observations related to safety [vital signs, intraocular pressure, slit lamp 
examinations, indirect ophthalmoscopy]) were observed between SB11- and Lucentis-treated patients. 
Abnormalities occurred in very few patients. 
Immunogenicity: Of the 350 and 354 patients treated with SB11 and Lucentis, respectively, a total 
of 330 patients for SB11 and 327 patients for Lucentis contributed available ADA results for overall 
ADA up to Week 52. Most of the patients were determined as ADA negative at each timepoint, the 
incidence of positive ADAs to ranibizumab was low and overall comparable between treatment arms. A 
maximum was observed at week 52 with 9/257 (3.5%) and 12/267 (4.5%) positive ADA counts for 
SB11 and Lucentis, respectively. The majority of the detected ADA in the SB11 and Lucentis treatment 
groups was non-neutralizing. At each time-point, no more than two patients had neutralizing 
antibodies and there was no obvious trend of a difference in terms of incidence between treatment 
arms at each time point. 
Cumulatively, the incidence of overall ADAs over time was also comparable between the two treatment 
groups. The number of patients with an overall ADA positive result up to Week 52 was 14/330 (4.2%) 
in the SB11 and 18/327 (5.5%) in the Lucentis treatment groups. 
When comparing the ADA incidence by titre, the distribution of ADA titres between the SB11 and 
Lucentis treatment arms were generally comparable (mostly ranged up to 1:200 or 1:400) (with few 
exceptions, see section on uncertainties). 
ADA negative and ADA positive subgroups showed a safety profile that was largely consistent with the 
overall safety results. 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about biosimilarity 
Quality 
Uncertainties and limitations identified during the evaluation have been sufficiently addressed.  
Clinical 
Pharmacokinetics 
The mean post-dose concentrations of SB11 (24-72 hours post dose and at week 1) seem to be higher 
than the mean concentrations of Lucentis for all time-points, hinting at an overexposure of SB11 in 
comparison to Lucentis. The difference in mean serum concentrations seem to increase until week 36 
with the mean of SB11 lying outside the mean plus the standard deviation of Lucentis in the end.  
The variability also seems to be higher for SB11. No Lucentis-treated patients from the PK sub-set 
showed concentration levels above 2.78 ng/mL, while the maximum levels that were reached in SB11-
treated patients ranged up to 6.67 ng/mL.  
Based on a thorough review of safety data (of subjects with highest concentration levels as well as any 
AEs that could potentially be associated with systemic VEGF inhibition), this trend of an overexposure 
is not expected to translate into clinically relevant differences.  
Efficacy 
Secondary endpoints: Some of the point estimates of the effect for Lucentis on the secondary 
endpoints seem higher than those of SB11. However the 95% Cis mostly overlap and the difference 
can be attributed to chance or alternatively be considered not clinically significant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 143/146 
 
 
 
The subgroup of “classic CNV” containing 27 patients per treatment arm showed a marked difference in 
difference in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 compared to the overall population, i.e. it 
had a mean difference of 7.49 letters in mean change from baseline in BCVA at Week 8 with 95% CI: 
[3.613, 11.365], which does not include the overall treatment effect of -0.8 letters. However, it can be 
assumed that baseline imbalances (slight imbalance in total lesion/CNV area and central retinal lesion 
thickness) and the relatively small sample sizes led to the difference of the classic CNV subgroup.   
It was also noted that the analysis of primary endpoint outcomes stratified by ADA-status indicated 
that ADA+ SB11 patients saw a higher efficiency for the week4 CST change primary endpoint. 
Contradictory, the similar analysis done for the FDA-facing primary endpoint showed ADA+ SB11 
subjects having worse outcomes for the week 8 BCVA change FDA-facing endpoint. Given the 
contradictory nature of these findings, and the fact that only very limited numbers of subjects in the 
trial were ADA+, it is not possible to infer clinical meaning to these results.  
Safety 
Some of the relevant safety events have been observed with higher frequency in patients treated with 
SB11 compared to patients treated with Lucentis. This includes ‘related’ ocular TEAEs, intraocular 
infection and inflammation (Category 3 and 4 AESIs), and TEAEs leading to treatment discontinuation. 
The only non-ocular SAEs that were considered related to the IP occurred in the SB11 treatment arm 
(one case of cerebral haemorrhage, cardiac failure, iliac artery embolism, peripheral ischaemia in 4 
patients [1.1%]) 
However, this trend is derived from a small number of events and only concerns events that occurred 
with low frequencies. These numerical imbalances cannot be attributed to true differences between 
biosimilar candidate and reference product with sufficient confidence.  
Overall, ocular and non-ocular adverse events expected to occur ‘commonly/very commonly’ based on 
the Lucentis SmPC occurred with lower frequency. As the applicant argues, it is possible that with 
increasing experience, AEs tended to be reported with lower frequencies as they might be considered 
by investigators to be no longer considered as reportable events. Nonetheless, this is a limitation to 
the sensitivity of the study to detect minor differences in safety profile. It is however concluded that in 
this case clinically relevant differences are not expected  
Immunogenicity  
It is notable that the highest titres were observed in the SB11 treatment group only (week 36: 1 
subject with 1:800; week 52: 1 subject each with titre 1:800 and 1:3200). There was no obvious 
correlation between ADA samples with high titres and neutralizing properties. Likewise, there was not 
obvious relationship between ADA positivity and the occurrence of AEs, though this cannot be 
completely ruled out. No significant difference between both treatment groups was however evident. 
3.4.  Discussion on biosimilarity 
Biosimilarity between SB11 and EU-sourced Lucentis at quality level, but also comparability between 
EU- and US-sourced Lucentis could be demonstrated in a well-established and comprehensive 
biosimilarity exercise.  
The pivotal efficacy and safety study in neovascular age-related macular degeneration patients was 
adequately designed and the primary and secondary efficacy outcomes and similarity criteria are 
deemed acceptable. The primary endpoint, the change from baseline in CST at Week 4, falls clearly 
within the equivalence margins, and the other clinical endpoints support similarity between the 
products as well.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 144/146 
 
 
 
From a safety point of view, the most common adverse events occurred at comparable rates 
(nasopharyngitis, conjunctival haemorrhage, increased intraocular pressure) or lower rates for SB11 
(hypertension). However, only these four adverse events were reported by more than 5% of patients 
and it is noteworthy that a substantial number of adverse events would have been expected to occur 
(very) commonly based on the Lucentis SmPC, but were reported at much lower rates in this study, 
thus impeding robust conclusions to some extent. All observed imbalances concern only low numbers 
of patients and events and must therefore be interpreted with caution. After thorough review of AEs 
observed in patients with highest serum ranibizumab concentration levels and AEs that could 
potentially be associated with systemic VEGF inhibition, it is concluded that this trend of an increased 
exposure in SB11-treated patients is not expected to translate into clinically relevant differences.  
In summary, the data supports biosimilarity between SB11 and Lucentis.  
3.5.  Extrapolation of safety and efficacy 
The indications granted for the reference product Lucentis were applied for Byooviz. Ranibizumab binds 
to VEGF-A to prevent binding to corresponding receptors, thereby suppressing neovascularisation. The 
mode of action of ranibizumab is considered to be the same across all approved indications of Lucentis. 
The systemic exposure of ranibizumab was described to be comparable in RVO, DME, and AMD patients 
[Zhang et al., 2014]. The biological activities related to the mode of action have been comprehensively 
evaluated in the analytical similarity exercise. Extrapolation to other indications of the reference 
product than neovascular age-related macular degeneration is considered acceptable. Hence, 
extrapolation to all approved indications of Lucentis applied for is supported. 
3.6.  Conclusions on biosimilarity and benefit risk balance 
Based on the review of the submitted data, Byooviz is considered biosimilar to Lucentis. Therefore, a 
benefit/risk balance comparable to the reference product can be concluded. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Byooviz is favourable in the following indication: 
Byooviz is indicated in adults for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein 
occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 145/146 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/446448/2021  
Page 146/146 
 
 
 
