EMA/446502/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005545 
Byooviz (ranibizumab) 
An overview of Byooviz and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Byooviz and what is it used for? 
Byooviz is a medicine used to treat adults with certain sight problems caused by damage to the retina 
(the light-sensing layer at the back of the eye), and more specifically its central region, known as the 
macula. The macula provides the vision needed to see detail for everyday tasks such as driving, 
reading and recognising faces. Byooviz is used to treat: 
• 
‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The wet form of AMD is caused by choroidal 
neovascularisation (abnormal growth of blood vessels beneath the retina, which may leak fluid and 
blood and cause swelling); 
•  macular oedema (swelling of the macula) caused by diabetes or by occlusion (blockage) of the 
veins behind the retina; 
• 
• 
proliferative diabetic retinopathy (growth of abnormal tiny blood vessels in the eye, associated with 
diabetes); 
other sight problems associated with choroidal neovascularisation. 
Byooviz is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Byooviz is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Byooviz is Lucentis. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Byooviz contains the active substance ranibizumab. 
How is Byooviz used? 
Byooviz is a solution for injection into the vitreous humour, the jelly-like fluid in the eye. It can only be 
obtained with a prescription and must be given by a qualified eye doctor who is experienced in giving 
injections into the eye. 
Treatment is started with one injection of 0.5 mg every month, with regular checks of the patient’s 
vision and examination of the back of the eye, until maximum vision is achieved and/or there are no 
signs of disease activity. The interval between two injections of Byooviz into the same eye must be at 
least four weeks. Treatment with Byooviz should be stopped if the patient is not benefitting from it. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Byooviz, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Byooviz work? 
The active substance in Byooviz, ranibizumab, is a small piece of a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal 
antibody is a type of protein that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific target (called 
an antigen) that is found in certain cells in the body. 
Ranibizumab has been designed to attach to and block a substance called vascular endothelial growth 
factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a protein that makes blood vessels grow and leak fluid and blood, 
damaging the macula. By blocking VEGF-A, ranibizumab reduces the growth of the blood vessels and 
controls the leakage and swelling. 
What benefits of Byooviz have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Byooviz with Lucentis have shown that the active substance in Byooviz is 
highly similar to that in Lucentis in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Byooviz produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
Lucentis. 
In addition, a study involving 705 patients with age-related macular degeneration found that Byooviz 
produced comparable improvements in the condition to those seen with Lucentis. In this study, the 
swelling of the macular area after 4 weeks was reduced on average by 108 micrometres in people 
given Byooviz and 100 micrometres in those given Lucentis. The number of letters patients could 
recognise on a standard eye test improved by about 10 in both groups after a year of treatment. 
Because Byooviz is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of ranibizumab 
carried out with Lucentis do not all need to be repeated for Byooviz. 
What are the risks associated with Byooviz? 
The safety of Byooviz has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side 
effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Lucentis. 
The most common side effects with ranibizumab (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
increased intraocular pressure (pressure within the eye), headache, vitritis (inflammation in the eye), 
vitreous detachment (separation of the vitreous from the back of the eye), retinal haemorrhage 
(bleeding at the back of the eye), visual disturbance, eye pain, vitreous floaters (spots in the vision), 
conjunctival haemorrhage (bleeding at the front of the eye), eye irritation, sensation of a foreign body 
in the eye, increased lacrimation (watery eyes), blepharitis (inflammation of the eyelids), dry eye, 
ocular hyperaemia (increased blood supply to the eye, leading to redness of the eye), eye pruritis 
(itching), arthralgia (joint pain) and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat). Rarely, 
endophthalmitis (an infection inside the eye), blindness, serious damage to the retina and cataract 
(clouding of the lens) can occur.  
Byooviz must not be used in patients who may have an infection of the eye or of the area around the 
eye, or who have severe inflammation within the eye. For the full list of side effects and restrictions of 
Byooviz, see the package leaflet.  
Byooviz (ranibizumab)  
EMA/446502/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why is Byooviz authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Byooviz has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Lucentis and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in patients with age-related macular 
degeneration have shown that the safety and effectiveness of Byooviz is equivalent to that of Lucentis 
in this indication. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Byooviz will behave in the same way as 
Lucentis in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Lucentis, the benefits of Byooviz outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Byooviz? 
The company that markets Byooviz will provide information packs to patients to help them prepare for 
treatment, recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent attention from their doctor. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Byooviz have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Byooviz are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Byooviz are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Byooviz 
Byooviz received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 August 2021. 
Further information on Byooviz can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Byooviz.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2021. 
Byooviz (ranibizumab)  
EMA/446502/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
