Summary of risk management plan for Cabazitaxel Accord 
60mg/3ml 
infusion 
for 
(Cabazitaxel) 
concentrate 
solution 
for 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Cabazitaxel  Accord  60  mg/3ml 
concentrate for solution for infusion. The RMP details important risks of Cabazitaxel Accord 60 
mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  Cabazitaxel  Accord  60  mg/3ml  concentrate  for  solution  for 
infusion’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cabazitaxel  Accord  60  mg/3ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion’s  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment 
Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cabazitaxel 
Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Cabazitaxel  Accord  60  mg/3ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  in  combination  with 
prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic castration 
resistant prostate cancer previously treated with a docetaxel containing regimen. 
It contains cabazitaxel as the active substance and it is given as intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for 
solution for infusion benefits can be found in Cabazitaxel’s EPAR, including in its plain-language 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. Pre-authorisation RMP: 
Link to the EPAR summary landing page. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cabazitaxel-accord 
 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml  concentrate for solution for infusion together 
with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Cabazitaxel 
Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion, these measures 
are supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important 
risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment (if applicable) and signal management activity, so 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion are risks 
that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cabazitaxel 
Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Medication error 
Missing information 
•  None 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important Potential Risks: Medication error 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.4, 6.3 and 6.6 
•  Specific  statements 
regarding  difference 
in 
concentration  in  vials  of  Cabazitaxel  Accord 
compared  to  other  cabazitaxel  products  and  the 
need to appropriately dilute the product before use 
– in Sections 4.4, 6.3 and 6.6 of the SmPC. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Communication Plan  (DHPC letter) to  ensure healthcare 
professionals  and  pharmacies  using  oncology  agents  are 
aware  of 
the  key  messages 
regarding  different 
concentration. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance with specific query for cases 
activity: 
where symptoms and signs of overdose have occurred to 
determine  if  medication  error  has  occurred.  Review  of 
cases reported with "medication error" (Category 3 Study) 
 
 
 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Cabazitaxel Accord 60 mg/3ml concentrate for solution for infusion. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Review  of  cases  reported  with  "medication  error"  (Category  3  Study)  to  minimize  the  risk  of 
"medication error". 
