28 October 2020 
EMA/243153/2020 
Cabazitaxel Accord: Letter to healthcare professionals 
about risk of mix-ups with Jevtana (cabazitaxel)                                           
Differences in strengths and dilution for Cabazitaxel Accord and Jevtana 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is alerting healthcare professionals of a risk of medication 
errors and mix-ups with the cancer medicine cabazitaxel: Jevtana and Cabazitaxel Accord. Both 
medicines are given by infusion (drip) into a vein but come in different strengths and require different 
dilution steps. 
Cabazitaxel Accord comes in a vial containing 3 ml of a concentrate (20 mg/ml) to make a solution for 
infusion in a single dilution step. In contrast, Jevtana comes in a vial containing 1.5 ml of concentrate 
(60 mg/1.5 ml) together with a vial containing solvent which is used to make a solution for infusion in 
a two-step dilution process.   
A mix-up with these medicines and their strengths and dilution requirements may result in healthcare 
professionals inadvertently giving their patients too much (overdose) or not enough (underdose) of the 
active  substance.  Underdosing  may  result  in  an  inadequate  effect,  while  overdosing  can  result  in 
serious  and  potentially  fatal  complications  such  as  suppression  of  the  bone  marrow  (which  produces 
blood cells) and serious gastrointestinal disorders. 
A letter will therefore be sent to healthcare professionals using Cabazitaxel Accord or Jevtana, alerting 
them to the differences in strengths and reminding them to carefully follow the dilution instructions 
that are provided with the medicine.  
Information for healthcare professionals 
• 
The injectable medicine cabazitaxel is available in two presentations of different strengths that 
require different reconstitution steps: 
−  Cabazitaxel Accord as a 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion requiring a single-step 
dilution process. 
− 
Jevtana as a 60 mg/1.5 ml concentrate with solvent for solution for infusion requiring a two-
step dilution process. 
•  Before the final dilution step either in glucose solution or sodium chloride solution for infusion, the 
concentration of cabazitaxel is: 
20 mg/ml for Cabazitaxel Accord  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
10 mg/ml for Jevtana. 
•  When prescribing and preparing Cabazitaxel Accord or Jevtana, healthcare professionals should be 
aware of the potential for medication errors and carefully follow the instructions provided in the 
summary of product characteristics of the medicine. 
• 
To help differentiate between the two presentations, the outer carton contains a warning and the 
vials have distinctive features. A summary of the differences is provided below:  
Cabazitaxel Accord 20 mg/ml 
Jevtana 60 mg/1.5 ml 
concentrate for solution for 
concentrate and solvent for 
infusion 
solution for infusion 
Presentation 
One ready-to-use vial: 
Two vials: 
•  Concentrate (3 ml) sealed by 
•  Concentrate (1.5 ml) sealed 
an aluminium cap covered 
by an aluminium cap covered 
with a violet plastic flip-off 
with a light green plastic 
cap 
flip-off cap 
•  Solvent (4.5 ml) sealed by a 
gold-coloured aluminium cap 
covered with a colourless 
plastic flip-off cap 
Carton warning 
“For intravenous use after 
“For intravenous infusion only 
dilution” 
after second dilution” 
Concentration of cabazitaxel 
20 mg/ml 
10 mg/ml 
in vial before the final 
dilution step 
More about the medicines 
Cabazitaxel Accord and Jevtana are cancer medicines used to treat men with metastatic castration-
resistant prostate cancer. This is a cancer that affects the prostate gland that produces the liquid in 
semen.  
Cabazitaxel Accord or Jevtana are used when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body 
(metastatic) despite treatments to prevent the production of testosterone or after surgical removal of 
the testes (castration). Cabazitaxel Accord or Jevtana are used in combination with prednisone or 
prednisolone (anti-inflammatory medicines) in patients who have previously been treated with 
docetaxel (another cancer medicine). 
More information on Jevtana and Cabazitaxel Accord can be found on the Agency’s website:  
• 
• 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/jevtana  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cabazitaxel-accord 
 
 
 
 
 
