Summary of activities in the risk management plan by product 
Summary of risk management plan for Cablivi (caplacizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cablivi. The RMP describes the 
important risks of Cablivi, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Cablivi's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cablivi's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Cablivi should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Cablivi  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including  the  assessment  report  of the  evaluation  and  in  its  plain-language  summary,  all  of 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  the 
RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Cablivi  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  adults  experiencing  an  episode  of  acquired 
thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  or  aTTP  as  it  reduces  the  frequency  of  TTP-related 
death,  recurrence  of  TTP,  and  refractory  disease.  It  contains  caplacizumab  as  the  active 
substance and it is given by injection (see SmPC for details). 
aTTP is a rare blood clotting disorder in which clots form in small blood vessels. These clots 
can  damage  the  brain,  heart,  kidneys,  and  other  organs.  Cablivi  prevents  blood  platelets 
from clumping together and forming these clots. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cablivi’s benefits can be found in Cablivi’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/004282/h
uman_med_002276.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124  
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Cablivi, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Cablivi's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Cablivi,  the  routine  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken 
as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Cablivi is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Cablivi  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cablivi. Potential risks are concerns for 
which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data  but 
this association has not been established and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long term use of the medicine).  
Table Part VI.1: List of important risks and missing information 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
risks 
  Bleeding 
Important potential risks    Serious allergy or immune reactions 
Missing information 
  Use during pregnancy and lactation 
  Use in patients with severe liver disease  
  Long term exposure, including inducing immune responses  
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
Table Part VI.2: Important identified risks 
Important identified risk: BLEEDING 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
In clinical trials, bleeding events were more frequent in the 
caplacizumab treated group compared to the placebo group. 
Patients with aTTP are at increased risk for bleeding. This risk is 
increased by caplacizumab treatment due to its mechanism of action. 
Patients receiving other commonly used treatments reducing blood 
clotting, such as high-dose heparin, are thought to be at greater risk of 
bleeding, although such an association could not be found in the 
aggregate data. 
Patients with severe liver disease or other disorders affecting their 
hemostasis are expected to be at higher risk of bleeding when treated 
with products affecting blood clotting such as caplacizumab. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.4, 4.8. and 4.9 
  PIL section 2 and 4 
  Legal status: subject to medical prescription 
 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
  Patient Alert Card 
Table Part VI.3: Important potential risks 
Important potential risk: SERIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Like other biological medicinal products, Cablivi has the potential to 
trigger immune reactions including serious hypersensitivity reactions. 
No severe immune reactions have been attributed to Cablivi in the 
clinical trials supporting its approval. 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Patients with known hypersensitivity to the active ingredient 
caplacizumab and/or any of the excipients are at increased risk of 
developing hypersensitivity reaction to caplacizumab. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC sections 4.3 
  PIL section 2 
  Legal status: subject to medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  ALX0681-C302  (HERCULES  Follow-up  study).  Will  collect  any 
reports  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  occurring  during  the  study 
including those occurring on retreatment. 
Table Part VI.4: Missing information 
Missing information: 
USE IN PREGNANCY AND LACTATION 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.6. 
  PIL section 2 
  Legal status: subject to medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
  None 
USE IN PATIENTS WITH SEVERE HEPATIC IMPAIRMENT 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4 
  PIL section 2 
  Legal status: subject to medical prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
  None 
LONG TERM EXPOSURE, INCLUDING IMMUNOGENICITY 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
  SmPC section 5.1 
Legal status: subject to medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
  None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• ALX0681-C302 Long term HERCULES follow-up study. Designed 
to collect data on long term (3y) safety 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific 
obligations of Cablivi. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study  ALX0681-C302  “Prospective  Follow-up  Study  for  Patients  who  Completed  Study 
ALX0681-C301  (HERCULES)  to  Evaluate  Long-term  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  caplacizumab 
(Post-HERCULES)" is expected to provide data on the long term safety of caplacizumab and 
on the safety of its repeated use for the treatment of disease recurrences. 
 
 
 
 
