EMA/237818/2022 
EMEA/H/C/004163 
Cabometyx (cabozantinib) 
An overview of Cabometyx and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Cabometyx and what is it used for? 
Cabometyx is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with: 
• 
advanced renal cell carcinoma (a kidney cancer). It is used in patients who have been previously 
treated with a type of cancer medicine called vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor. It 
is also used in patients who have not had previous treatment and whose cancer is at moderate or 
high risk of rapidly getting worse. 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (a liver cancer). It is used on its own in patients who have already been 
treated with the cancer medicine sorafenib. 
• 
differentiated thyroid carcinoma (a type of cancer originating from the follicular cells of the thyroid 
gland). Cabometyx is used after systemic therapy (affecting the whole body) when the cancer has 
progressed or spread locally or to other parts of the body. It is used when the cancer does not 
respond to treatment with radioactive iodine or in patients who cannot have radioactive iodine. 
Cabometyx contains the active substance cabozantinib. 
How is Cabometyx used? 
Cabometyx can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience of using cancer medicines. 
Cabometyx is available as tablets. The recommended dose is 60 mg once a day. Patients should not 
eat for at least two hours before and one hour after taking Cabometyx. The dose may need to be 
reduced or treatment stopped temporarily if serious or unacceptable side effects occur. Treatment is 
continued for as long as the patient benefits from it or until side effects become unacceptable.  
For more information about using Cabometyx, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Cabometyx work? 
The active substance in Cabometyx, cabozantinib, is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This means that it 
blocks the activity of enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found in certain 
receptors in cancer cells, where they are involved in activating processes that include cell division and 
the growth of new blood vessels to supply the cancer. By blocking the activity of these enzymes in 
cancer cells, the medicine reduces the growth and spread of the cancer. 
What benefits of Cabometyx have been shown in studies? 
Renal cell carcinoma  
One main study involving 658 adults with advanced renal cell carcinoma that had got worse despite 
treatment with a VEGF inhibitor showed that Cabometyx is effective at prolonging the time patients 
lived without their disease getting worse (progression-free survival). In the study, Cabometyx was 
compared with the cancer medicine everolimus. Patients treated with Cabometyx lived for an average 
of 7.4 months without their disease getting worse compared with 3.8 months in patients treated with 
everolimus. In addition, results indicated that patients treated with Cabometyx lived overall longer 
(overall survival) than patients treated with everolimus (an average of 21.4 months compared with 
16.5 months). 
A second main study showed that Cabometyx was effective in adults with previously untreated renal 
cell carcinoma that was locally advanced or had spread elsewhere in the body. The study involved 157 
patients, and compared Cabometyx with another cancer medicine, sunitinib. Patients treated with 
Cabometyx lived for an average of 8.6 months without their disease getting worse compared with 5.3 
months in those treated with sunitinib.  
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
One main study involving 707 adults with hepatocellular carcinoma who had already been treated with 
sorafenib showed that Cabometyx was effective at prolonging how long patients lived. In the study, 
Cabometyx was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). Patients treated with Cabometyx lived 
on average for 10.2 months, compared with 8.0 months in patients who received placebo. 
Differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
One main study involved 187 adults with differentiated thyroid carcinoma that had got worse despite 
previous treatment. Patients treated with Cabometyx lived for an average of 11 months without the 
disease getting worse compared with 2 months for patients who received placebo. In addition, results 
indicated that patients treated with Cabometyx lived overall longer than patients on placebo (an 
average of 17 months compared with 14 months). 
What are the risks associated with Cabometyx? 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) with Cabometyx 
in patients with renal cell carcinoma are abdominal pain (belly ache), high blood pressure, diarrhoea, 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, loss of appetite, dizziness, tiredness, dehydration, hyponatraemia and 
hypomagnesaemia (low blood levels of sodium and magnesium), palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome (hand-foot syndrome, which involves rash and numbness on the palms and soles), 
weakness, embolism (clot in a blood vessel) and pulmonary embolism (clot in a blood vessel in the 
lungs). 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) with Cabometyx 
in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma are hepatic encephalopathy (harmful effects on the brain 
caused by liver damage), tiredness, vomiting, abdominal pain, hyponatraemia, palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthesia syndrome, weakness, diarrhoea and low levels of platelets in the blood. 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) with Cabometyx 
in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma are diarrhoea, pulmonary embolism (clot in a blood 
vessel in the lungs), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), deep vein thrombosis (blood clot in a deep vein, 
usually the leg), hypertension (high blood pressure) and hypocalcaemia (low blood levels of calcium). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Cabometyx, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Cabometyx authorised in the EU? 
In advanced renal cell carcinoma, Cabometyx was shown to prolong the time patients who had 
previously been treated lived without their disease getting worse. These patients have poor outcomes 
and a high unmet medical need. Results also indicated that Cabometyx helped patients to live longer. 
In previously untreated patients with moderate or high-risk disease, Cabometyx also provided clinically 
relevant benefit, delaying the progression of the cancer and the need for other treatments.  
In hepatocellular carcinoma, Cabometyx was shown to prolong survival in patients who had been 
treated with sorafenib. The improvement in survival is considered significant considering that these 
patients have poor outcomes and few treatment options.  
A clinically significant benefit was also seen in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. 
The side effects of Cabometyx are similar to other tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and they are considered 
manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Cabometyx’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cabometyx? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cabometyx have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Cabometyx are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Cabometyx are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Cabometyx 
Cabometyx received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 September 2016. 
Further information on Cabometyx can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cabometyx.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2022.  
