25 July 2019 
EMA/553936/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): doxorubicin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001172/201811 
Period covered by the PSUR: 11 November 2015 To: 11 November 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for doxorubicin, the scientific conclusions 
of the CHMP are as follows: 
Based on the review of the safety data of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (Caelyx), a signal of 
lichenoid keratosis was detected with a total of 10 cases reported. Three cases were poorly documented and 
were excluded from the assessment. Among the seven cases reviewed, the causality was stated as probable in 4 
cases and possible in 1 case. Although the biological mechanism of lichenoid keratosis after doxorubicin is not 
known, the PRAC considers that “lichenoid keratosis” should be included as a new adverse drug reaction in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC based on the review of the cases. The frequency of lichenoid keratosis was determined 
as “rare” based on clinical trials. Section 4 of the package leaflet should be updated accordingly with the term 
“patches of skin thickening”. 
Furthermore, based on the pooled analysis of 4,231 patients across indications, the SmPC should be updated to 
in order to better detail the risk of cardiotoxicity associated with Caelyx. In this pooled analysis of 4,231 
patients receiving Caelyx, ventricular arrythmia, palpitations, cardiac failure, cardiac arrest, bundle branch 
block right, and ejection fraction decreased were reported uncommonly, and atrioventricular block, cyanosis, 
and conduction disorder were reported rarely. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for doxorubicin the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing doxorubicin is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/553936/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
