EMA/635791/2019  
EMEA/H/C/000089 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal1 (doxorubicin) 
An overview of Caelyx pegylated liposomal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Caelyx pegylated liposomal and what is it used for? 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is a medicine used to treat the following types of cancer in adults: 
•  metastatic breast cancer in patients at risk of heart problems. ‘Metastatic’ means the cancer has 
spread to other parts of the body. Caelyx pegylated liposomal is used on its own for this disease; 
• 
advanced ovarian cancer in women whose previous treatment including a platinum-based cancer 
medicine has stopped working; 
•  Kaposi’s sarcoma in patients with AIDS who have very damaged immune system. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
is a cancer that causes abnormal tissue to grow under the skin, on moist body surfaces or on 
internal organs; 
•  multiple myeloma (a cancer of the cells in the bone marrow), in patients with progressive disease 
who have received at least one other treatment in the past and have already had a bone marrow 
transplantation or are unsuitable for it. Caelyx pegylated liposomal is used in combination with 
bortezomib (another cancer medicine). 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains the active substance doxorubicin.  
How is Caelyx pegylated liposomal used? 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal can only be obtained with a prescription. It should only be given under the 
supervision of a doctor who is qualified in the use of cytotoxic (cell-killing) medicines. It cannot be 
interchanged with other medicines that contain doxorubicin. 
The dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal depends on the condition it is used for and is calculated on the 
basis of the patient’s weight and height. The doctor may stop treatment or reduce the dose if certain 
side effects occur or if the patient has liver problems. 
1
 Previously known as Caelyx. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Caelyx pegylated liposomal, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Caelyx pegylated liposomal work? 
Doxorubicin, the active substance in Caelyx pegylated liposomal, is a cytotoxic medicine that belongs 
to the group ‘anthracyclines’. It interferes with the DNA in cells, preventing them from making more 
copies of DNA and making proteins. This means that cancer cells cannot divide and eventually die. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal builds up in areas in the body where the blood vessels have an abnormal 
shape, such as within tumours, where its action is concentrated. 
Doxorubicin has been available since the 1960s. In Caelyx pegylated liposomal, it is enclosed in 
‘pegylated liposomes’ (tiny fat particles coated with a substance called polyethylene glycol). This slows 
down removal of the medicine, allowing it to circulate in the blood for longer. It also reduces its effects 
on healthy tissues and cells, so it is less likely to cause some side effects. 
What benefits of Caelyx pegylated liposomal have been shown in studies? 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal has been studied in a total of 2,512 patients in seven main studies. 
For metastatic breast cancer, in a study involving 509 women, Caelyx pegylated liposomal was as 
effective as standard doxorubicin: the time until the disease got worse was around 7.5 months in both 
groups. However, patients receiving Caelyx pegylated liposomal were less likely to have heart 
problems. 
For advanced ovarian cancer, in a study involving 474 women who had received platinum-based 
chemotherapy in the past, Caelyx pegylated liposomal was as effective as topotecan (another cancer 
medicine) in extending time until the disease got worse. 
For AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma, the effectiveness of Caelyx pegylated liposomal was studied in two 
studies involving 384 patients, including 77 who had received treatment before. Around 70% of the 
patients had a complete or partial response to treatment, with similar results in the study of patients 
who had been treated before. In additional studies involving a total of 499 patients, Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal was more effective than either a combination of standard doxorubicin, bleomycin and 
vincristine (other cancer medicines) or a combination of bleomycin and vincristine. 
For multiple myeloma, in a study involving 646 patients, the time until the disease got worse with a 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal and bortezomib was 9.3 months compared with 6.5 months in patients 
treated with bortezomib alone. 
What are the risks associated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal? 
The side effects with Caelyx pegylated liposomal depend on the type of cancer being treated. The most 
common side effect with Caelyx pegylated liposomal (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
nausea (feeling sick). Other very common side effects include palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome (redness and pain on the hands and feet), vomiting, stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of 
the mouth), rash, weakness, low blood cell counts, loss of appetite, hair loss, tiredness, diarrhoea, 
constipation and mucositis (inflammation of the mouth and throat). 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal must not be used to treat Kaposi’s sarcoma that could be treated 
effectively with ‘local’ treatments that only affect the site of the tumour or with alfa interferon 
treatment. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal0F (doxorubicin)  
EMA/635791/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Caelyx pegylated liposomal authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Caelyx pegylated liposomal’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Caelyx pegylated liposomal have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Caelyx pegylated liposomal are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Caelyx pegylated liposomal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action 
taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 June 
1996. 
Further information on Caelyx pegylated liposomal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/caelyx.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Caelyx pegylated liposomal0F (doxorubicin)  
EMA/635791/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
