SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  30  November  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
The  initial  approved  indication  for  Caelyx  was  the  treatment  of  Kaposi’s  sarcoma  (KS)  in  patients 
with  human  immunodeficiency  syndrome  (AIDS).  Caelyx  may  be  used  as  first-line  systemic 
chemotherapy, or as second line chemotherapy in AIDS-KS patients with disease that has progressed 
with, or in patients intolerant to, prior combination systemic chemotherapy comprising at least two of 
the following agents:  a  vinca  alkaloid,  bleomycin  and  doxorubicin (or  other anthracycline). Early  in 
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic, KS was the most frequent opportunistic 
neoplasm  encountered  in  patients  with  AIDS.  Due  to  major  improvement  of  antiviral  treatment  the 
prevalence  of  KS  has  markedly  decreased  and  KS  is  now  occurring  later  in  the  course  of  HIV 
infection,  in  advanced  AIDS  patients  with  low  CD4  cell  count.  Complications  of  AIDS-related  KS 
depend primarily on the stage of the disease and its pattern of clinical manifestations: cutaneous versus 
visceral. 
In  2000  the  indication  was  extended  to  include  the  treatment  of  advanced  ovarian  cancer  in  women 
who have failed a first-line platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. 
Caelyx  contains  the  active  substance  doxorubicin  hydrochloride  (HCl),  an  anthracycline  antibiotic, 
which inhibits cell proliferation by interaction with nucleic acid. 
Caelyx consists of a liposomal formulation of doxorubicin HCl encapsulated in a delivery system of 
long circulating liposomes (Stealth® or sterically stabilised liposomes) with surface-bound methoxy-
polyethylene  glycol  distearoylphosphoethanolamine  sodium  salt  (MPEG-DSPE).  This  process  is 
known  as  pegylation  and  protects  liposomes  from  detection  by  the  mononuclear  phagocyte  system, 
which increases blood circulation time. Caelyx is therefore characterised by long-acting properties. 
Caelyx  is  a  concentrate  for  infusion  supplied  in  strength  2  mg/ml  and  presented  as  a  sterile, 
translucent, red suspension after dilution in a solution of glucose for intravenous infusion. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  information  related  to  the  active  substance,  doxorubicin  HCl  obtained  from  Streptomyces 
peucetius  var.  caesius  and  submitted  in  this  application  constitute  the  open  part  of  the  Drug  Master 
File  (DMF)  as  prepared  by  the  supplier  of  doxorubicin  HCl.  However,  the  full  documentation 
including  in  the  DMF  has  already  been  evaluated  by  the  UK  Authorities  in  relation  to  another 
application and has been found satisfactory. 
For the finished medicinal product, three formulations have been developed. The one intended to be 
put on the market includes ammonium sulphate (drug loading related to the concentration) and three 
lipid components which constitute the liposomal membrane: 
• 
Fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidyl choline (HSPC) 
α-(2-[1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero(3)phosphooxy]ethylcarbamoyl)-ω-methoxypoly(oxyethylen)-
• 
40, sodium salt (MPEG-DSPE) 
Cholesterol.  
• 
To ensure that there is no risk of transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy linked to the use 
of cholesterol, the applicant provided information on the source of this material. 
As  MPEG-DSPE,  an  amphophilic  compound  responsible  for  the  long  acting  properties  of  these 
liposomes,  is  a  new  critical  excipient,  full  documentation  has  been  submitted.  With  regards  to  its 
function in this formulation, the most important feature of this molecule is the hydrophilic-lipophilic 
balance (HLB) essential for proper disposition between the lipophilic regions of the liposome surface 
and  the  aqueous  surrounding  region.  Plasma  circulation  times  for  these  liposomes  are  sensitive  to 
changes in the hydrophilic shell provided by MPEG-DSPE i.e. related to the molecular weight of the 
MPEG  used.  With  MPEG  2,000  and  above,  satisfactory  prolongation  is  observed.  Therefore  to 
1/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reassure that a small reduction would not have a significant effect on liposomal circulation times the 
applicant agreed to tighten the molecular weight specification for MPEG-DSPE. 
The  complicated  manufacturing  process was  considered to  be  well-described in the application. The 
actual formation of the liposomes is standard. The manufacturing process involves a sterile filtration 
step using a filter that has been validated. Bulk holding times have been minimised or eliminated to 
control  potential  microbial  contamination.  In  response  to  a  concern  raised  with  respect  to  microbial 
contamination, a pre-sterilised bioburden limit was adopted by the applicant above which batches will 
be rejected. 
In  relation  to  the  finished  product  specifications  at  release  and  at  the  end  of  shelf-life,  the  applicant 
agreed to tighten some specifications to improve the consistency and the uniformity of the medicinal 
product  and  to  reassure  that  changes  in  product  quality  during  storage  do  not  affect  clinical 
performance.  
The  container  is  in  compliance  with  the  European  Pharmacopoeia:  Type  I  clear  glass  vial  with  a 
bromobutyl rubber stopper (siliconised).  
Results  of  stability  tests  are  considered  consistent  to  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  18  months. 
Therefore, a shelf-life of 18 months is appropriate when the finished product is stored in the original 
container  between 2º and 8ºC. In relation  to the  diluted product,  data indicate adequate stability  in 
dextrose 5% for no more than 24 hours at temperatures between 2º and 8ºC. 
In summary, pharmaceutical issues, which have been raised during the evaluation of the application, 
have  been  resolved  and  all  the  data  provided  gave  the  assurance  of  the  quality  of  the  medicinal 
product. 
In the course of the extension of the indication to ovarian cancer the MAH applied for an additional 
pack-size  to  accommodate  the  higher  dose  for  the  new  indication  .(50mg/25ml).  The  stability  data 
provided demonstrated that the new 50 mg vials are of comparable quality to the initial 20 mg vials 
and support an identical shelf life. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Doxorubicin  HCl  is  an  anticancer  anthracycline  antibiotic.  It  acts  through  intercalation  of  bases  of 
double-stranded  DNA,  and  by  inhibition  of  DNA  topoisomerase  II,  an  enzyme  involved  in  DNA 
replication, whose activity is markedly increased in proliferating cells.  
Caelyx  accumulates  in  areas  of  abnormal  vessel  architecture  commonly  observed  in  malignant 
tumours.  Since  KS  is  a  highly  vascularised  tumour,  it  is  expected  that  Caelyx  will  preferentially 
accumulate in KS lesions.  
During  the  development  programme,  three  formulations  of  Caelyx  were  evaluated.  To  simplify  the 
assessment,  only  data  related  to  the  formulation  intended  to  be  introduced  onto  the  market  are 
considered in this document. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Studies on pharmacodynamic effects with respect to the proposed indication have been performed in 
vivo  in  mice  using  a  range  of  murine  and  human  xenograft  tumour  types.  Results  showed  that  in  a 
variety of tumour models, Caelyx was more effective than the same dose of doxorubicin hydrochloride 
in  inhibiting  tumour  growth,  in  effecting  cures  and/or  prolonging  survival.  Variation  in  liposomal 
diameter in the range 100-150 nm had no significant effect on anti-tumour activity of Caelyx. As part 
of  the  indication  is  in  patients  refractory  to  conventional  chemotherapy,  the  Multi-Drug  Resistance 
(MDR) has been estimated. Since some preliminary investigations on the activity of Caelyx in MDR 
tumour  model suggest that this medicinal product can overcome  MDR to some extent, and since no 
evidence  for  MDR  was  observed  in  patients  who  failed  prior  anthracyclines,  MDR  is  considered 
unlikely to be a major problem with Caelyx. 
Studies  intended  to  investigate  potential  secondary  pharmacological  effects  of  the  stealth  placebo 
liposomes (i.e. “empty” liposome containing no doxorubicin hydrochloride) revealed no neurotoxicity 
signs or adverse behavioural effects in rodents. In a non-rodent, after an i.v. infusion of stealth placebo 
liposomes,  hypotensive  effects  characterised  as  anaphylactic-like  responses  were  reported.  The 
relevance of this effect to the clinical use of Caelyx is unknown. However, to reflect this observation, 
a  statement  has  been  included  in  the  SPC.  In  vitro,  Caelyx,  stealth  placebo  liposomes  and  free 
doxorubicin appeared to have minimal haemolytic effect when mixed with human or rodent blood. 
2/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sufficient data from animal models were provided to demonstrate the anti-tumour activity of Caelyx 
to a range of murine and human xenograft tumour types. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Although the ADME studies (absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion), and in particularly 
metabolism and excretion components, carried out in rats, rabbits and dogs, were considered sparse, 
data  were  available  to  characterise  the  major  differences  and  similarities  between  free  doxorubicin 
HCl and this liposomal formulation. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  Caelyx,  determined  in  multiple  species  was  considered  well 
characterised. After a single intravenous (IV) administration, the volume of distribution was shown to 
be approximate to the total blood volume, which indicated low liposome uptake by normal tissues in 
comparison  with  free  doxorubicin  HCl.  The  principal  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  are  biphasic 
plasma  concentration-time  curve,  low  rate  of  clearance,  high  area-under-the-curve  (AUC),  small 
volume of distribution and a prolonged secondary half-life that accounts for the majority (> 95%) of 
the  AUC.  Regarding  metabolism,  some  results  have  demonstrated  that  liposomal  incorporation 
modifies the pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of doxorubicin without any major effect on the 
route of metabolism.  
Multiple-dose  studies  in  rodents  and  non-rodents  gave  dose-proportional  tissue  concentrations  of 
doxorubicin  with  distribution  patterns  comparable  to  those  in  the  single-dose  rodent  study.  Caelyx 
produced  lower  tissue  levels  of  doxorubicin  in  heart  and  kidney  compared  with  equimolar  doses  of 
doxorubicin HCl. Skin lesions noted in both rodents and non-rodents were associated with higher drug 
concentrations compared with those in unaffected skin. 
No relationship has been found between tissue AUCs (free + liposomal doxorubicin) and toxicity in 
animal studies conducted with Caelyx. To explain this , two hypotheses, considered satisfactory have 
been  suggested,  based  on  the  relationship  of  toxicity  to  peak  doxorubicin  HCl  concentration  and  on 
the lymphatic drainage of normal tissues.  
A  single-dose  study  in  rodents  showed  that  pharmacokinetic  parameters  are  independent  of  minor 
variations in lipid composition, liposome particle size, content of LPC or source of MPEG-DSPE. 
No further distribution and excretion studies using stealth placebo liposomes have been performed. 
The main pharmacokinetic characteristics of Caelyx are the extended half-life and the higher Cmax and 
AUC values in comparison to conventional doxorubicin injection at equimolar doses.  
Toxicology  
A repeated-dose intravenous toxicity study undertaken in rodents with Caelyx was discontinued after 
eight  doses  owing  to  high  mortality  related  to  skin  toxicity  and  poor  general  health  of  the  animals. 
Similar  toxic  effects  were  observed  for  Caelyx  and  doxorubicin  HCl:  decreased  body  weight, 
decreased white blood cells (WBC) and red blood cells (RBC) counts, thymic and testicular atrophy, 
hypocellular  bone  marrow,  myocyte  vacuolation  and  myocardial  degeneration.  Caelyx  was  less 
myelotoxic,  cardiotoxic  and  nephrotoxic  than  doxorubicin  HCl,  but  more  dermotoxic  (reversible 
dermal toxicity in the form of lesions on the feet and legs). A study performed in a non-rodent species 
led to the same conclusions. In terms of dermal toxicity, the no-effect level was 0.25  mg/kg in both 
rodent and non-rodent species. 
Two  additional  studies,  one  in  a  non-rodent  species,  have  been  undertaken  to  assess  the  cardiac, 
haematological and dermal toxicity of Caelyx. In an animal model for anthracycline cardiotoxicity, up 
to  50%  more  Caelyx  than  doxorubicin  could  be  administered  without  incurring  an  increased  risk  of 
cardiomyopathy. In a non-rodent species, the severity of Caelyx-associated dermal lesions is related to 
dose  and  dosing  interval,  with  lower  doses  or  longer  dosing  intervals  resulting  in  reduced  lesion 
severity. 
Myelosuppression was mild and appeared to be primarily confined to the erythroid series. The dermal 
lesions were generally a more important dose-limiting parameter than myelotoxicity for Caelyx which 
is not the case for doxorubicin HCl.  
The toxicology programme is not complete in relation to reproductive toxicity and mutagenicity. The 
genotoxicity of Caelyx as a finished product has not been evaluated since doxorubicin, as a powerful 
mutagen would have swamped any response from the stealth placebo liposomes. Therefore, only the 
genotoxic  potential  of  the  liposomes  has  been  evaluated  in  a  conventional  package  of  tests.  Results 
obtained confirm the innocuity of the liposome components. 
3/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The evaluation of reproductive toxicity was restricted to fertility studies (segment II). Since there are 
data on the embryotoxic and teratogenic nature of doxorubicin HCl, as well as on its ability to induce 
long-term  or  permanent  sterility  (in  rats  and  dogs  testicular  atrophy  may  be  observed),  it  was 
considered  acceptable  not  to  repeat  the  studies  with  Caelyx.  The  administration  of  high  doses  of 
Caelyx to pregnant rodent species was associated with decreased foetal weights, decreased litter size 
and increased resorptions. In a non-rodent species, Caelyx was revealed to be abortifacient. In relation 
to  these  data,  appropriate  comments  have  been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics 
(SPC). 
A local tolerance study, performed in a non-rodent species receiving Caelyx by IV injection revealed 
no  treatment-related  injection-site  intolerance.  However,  after  subcutaneous  administration,  dose-
dependent  inflammatory  reactions  have  been  observed  indicating  that  Caelyx  may  provoke  an 
inflammatory  response  after  accidental  perivenous  administration.  To  reflect  this  fact,  appropriate 
recommendations  and  precautions  have  been  added  in  the  SPC.  Data  on  the  haemolytic  potential  of 
Caelyx  submitted  showed  that  neither  Caelyx  nor  the  “empty”  liposomes  caused  any  haemolysis  of 
human RBCs or any coagulation or precipitation of human serum or plasma.  
The toxicity of MPEG-DSPE, one of the three lipid components of the stealth liposome, has only been 
evaluated through a  limited single-dose study  carried  out in  mice. Nevertheless,  results  indicate  that 
the material is not acutely toxic. 
In  conclusion,  although  Caelyx  and  doxorubicin  HCl  present  a  similar  toxicity  profile,  Caelyx 
produces  more  dermal  lesions  primarily  on  the  feet  and  legs  whereas  doxorubicin  HCl  is  more 
cardiotoxic and nephrotoxic. The toxicity profile of Caelyx has been well defined based on available 
literature  data  on  conventional  doxorubicin  HCl  and  results  from  adequate  studies  performed  in 
relation to the indication claimed and population sought. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Kaposis’s sarcoma 
Although  Kaposi’s  sarcoma  (KS)  is  generally  not  life-  threatening  with  the  exception  of 
gastrointestinal and pulmonary KS, the disease can be severely debilitating (e.g. debilitating oedema, 
pain,  facial  oedema,  dyspnea).  AIDS-KS  classification  is  based  upon  patient’s  overall  clinical  and 
immunological  status  as  well  as  the  therapeutic  goals  of  the  treatment  (AIDS  Clinical  Trials  Group 
(ACTG)  classification  using 
illness  staging  criteria, 
distribution  of  KS  lesion  sites  and  overall  number  of  lesions).  Current  palliative  systemic  therapies 
available are: 
• 
the  Tumour-Immune-System-Systemic 
alpha-interferon  indicated  for  treatment  of  patients  with  AIDS-KS  that  have  no  history  of 
opportunistic  infections  and  have  relatively  intact  immune  systems,  i.e.,  patients  with  CD4 
counts ≥ 200 mm3. 
cytotoxic chemotherapy such as bleomycin and vincristine (BV) or doxorubicin HCl, bleomycin 
and  vincristine  (ABV).  The  latest  combinations  are  commonly  used  although  none  of  these 
medicinal products is licensed for treatment of AIDS-KS. 
• 
The objective of a liposomal formulation is to allow the release of doxorubicin HCl preferentially at 
KS lesions and minimise sites of toxicity. 
Caelyx  is  intended  to  be  administered  intravenously  at  20  mg/m2  every  two  to  three  weeks  for  the 
treatment  of  AIDS-related  Kaposi’s  sarcoma  (KS)  in  patients  with  low  CD4  counts  (<  200  CD4 
lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive mucocutaneous or visceral disease. 
Caelyx may be used as first-line systemic chemotherapy, or as second line chemotherapy in AIDS-KS 
patients with disease that has progressed with, or in patients intolerant to, prior combination systemic 
chemotherapy  comprising  at  least  two  of  the  following  agents:  a  vinca  alkaloid,  bleomycin  and 
doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
Since  the  active  moiety  is  well  known,  no  human  pharmacodynamic  studies  specific  for  this 
formulation have been performed. 
The recommended dosing regimen (20 mg/m2 every two to three weeks) is based on results obtained 
from two studies which identified the maximum tolerated dose in the intended patient population. Of 
the three doses tested (10 mg/m2, 20 mg/m2 and 40 mg/m2), 40 mg/m2 provoked an unacceptable level 
4/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  myelosuppression  in  AIDS-KS  patients  and  there  was  evidence  that  20  mg/m2  is  more  effective 
than 10 mg/m2. 
These data were considered sufficient since they are in line with current recommendations introduced 
in ICH and CPMP guidelines. 
The pharmacokinetic behaviour of Caelyx has been established in cancer patients with solid tumours 
and in AIDS patients with KS through three studies although only one study (randomised, crossover of 
single dose of Caelyx 10 or 20 mg/m2 separated by 3 week washout period and involving 43 patients) 
was  conducted  in  the  indicated  patient  population  with  the  final  formulation  intended  to  be  on  the 
market.  
Caelyx displays linear pharmacokinetics as AUC and Cmax appeared dose related. In addition Caelyx 
presents a bicompartmental pharmacokinetics with an initial half-life of approximately 5 hours, which 
accounts for less than 5% of the total AUC, and a secondary phase of 55 hours which represents the 
remainder of the AUC. 
Compared to Caelyx, free-doxorubicin HCl is cleared rapidly from the plasma, with an initial half-life 
of approximately 10 minutes, reflecting the rapid tissue uptake of doxorubicin. The apparent volume 
of distribution of Caelyx is approximately equal to the estimated plasma volume, which suggests that 
encapsulated  drug  is  restricted  from  entering  the  extravascular  compartment  during  the  plasma 
distribution  phase.  At  20  mg/m2,  the  measured  ratios  between  lesion  and  normal  skin,  determinated 
following  collection  of  biopsy  and  plasma  samples,  indicate  that  Caelyx,  therefore,  preferentially 
accumulates in KS lesions. 
Clearance (Clt) is prolonged compared to conventional doxorubicin HCl. 
After  intravenous  administration,  doxorubicin  HCl  is  rapidly  metabolised  primarily  in  its  major 
metabolite, doxorubicinol. It has been  demonstrated that liposome encapsulated doxorubicin can not 
be  metabolised,  thus  the  amount  of  doxorubicinol  in  plasma  is  derived  from  metabolism  of 
doxorubicin  that  has  been  released  from  the  liposome.  However,  based  on  the  results  of  a 
physiologically  based  pharmacokinetic  simulation  model  and  plasma  levels  of  doxorubicinol 
measured  throughout  this  study,  the  level  of  free  doxorubicin  released  from  the  liposome  has  been 
determined as very low. 
The recommended dose interval for Caelyx is longer than the interval required to avoid accumulation 
(around  5  half-lives).  The  clearance  half-life  of  conventional  doxorubicin  HCl  (approximately 
10 minutes  in  humans)  and  results  obtained  from  preclinical  studies  justified  the  absence  of  a  study 
evaluating the potential accumulation. 
The  potential  of  interactions  with  parenteral,  nutritional  lipid-solutions,  or  other  liposomal  products 
has  not  been  studied.  However,  such  an  interaction  is  not  expected  owing  to  the  physical 
characteristics on the stealth liposome. 
An  ongoing  clinical  study  evaluates  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Caelyx  in  hepatic  cancer  patients  as 
determinated by pre-study total bilirubin concentrations. The pharmacokinetic parameters (clearance, 
half-lives) for these patients appear to be similar to the pharmacokinetic parameters for the 41 AIDS-
KS  patients  from  the  randomised  cross-over  single  dose  pharmacokinetic  study.  When  both 
populations are combined by initial bilirubin level, there still appears no difference in the clearance or 
half-lives. These data suggest therefore that the pharmacokinetics of Caelyx are unaffected by hepatic 
insufficiency.  However,  because  of  the  small  number  of  patients  involved  and  the  lack  of  clinical 
experience,  information  which  recommends  to  reduce  dosage  based  on  experience  gained  with 
conventional doxorubicin has been included in the SPC. 
Concerning  renally  impaired  patients,  no  studies  have  been  carried  out.  However,  based  on  the  fact 
that doxorubicin is both metabolised by the liver and excreted by the bile, it was considered reasonable 
that no dose adjustment is required with Caelyx for this subpopulation group, as reflected in the SPC. 
In summary, the general pharmacokinetic profile of Caelyx is known and confirms that stealth coating 
allows liposomes containing doxorubicin HCl to circulate for prolonged periods of time in the plasma 
of AIDS-KS  patients.  The liposomes  may be  more concentrated in KS lesions where the substance-
loaded  is  released.  Nevertheless  it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  there  are  limited  data  regarding 
metabolism and excretion of Caelyx, pharmacokinetic profile in special population groups and drug-
drug interaction, especially with other chemotherapies. 
Efficacy 
The initial clinical development programme consisted of two uncontrolled open pivotal studies. These 
studies involved comparable patient populations (nearly exclusively white homosexual males, aged on 
5/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
average 38 years, with advanced AIDS and extensive KS as reflected in the low CD4 cells count, high 
percentage  of  patients  at  poor  risk  using  the  AIDS  Clinical  Trial  Group).  Patients  enrolled  were 
considered  as  being  representative  of  the  overall  patient  population  with  AIDS-related  Kaposi’s 
sarcoma. 
This  first  study  involving  247  patients  was  designed  as  a  multicentre,  uncontrolled  open  trial  of 
Caelyx.  The  median  dose  received  was  20  mg/m2  and  patients  received  a  total  of  2,015  cycles  of 
treatment,  cycles  being  repeated  at  2  weekly  intervals.  Clinical  endpoints  included  therapeutic 
response and Quality of Life. Results obtained from this study are as follows: 
complete response 
partial response 
stable 
progression 
6.3 % 
74.4 % 
18.5 % 
0.8 % 
complete response (CR) defined as absence of any detectable residual disease 
partial response (PR) defined as absence of new lesions (cutaneous - visceral) 
stable disease (SD) defined as any response not meeting the criteria for CR, PR or PD 
progressive disease (PD) defined as development of new events such as new lesions 
Long-term  follow-up  is  ongoing  and  only  a  portion  of  the  patients  received  the  intended  marketed 
formulation. However, analysis of response on the basis of formulation administered did not show any 
significance in response data. To date, the mean duration of response is 117 days and quality of life 
data related to pain seem to be improved.  
This second study involving 137 patients with AIDS related to KS was designed as an uncontrolled, 
open trial. The median dose of Caelyx final formulation was 20 mg/m2, repeated 3 weekly.  
793 cycles of therapy were administered with a median cumulative dose of 110 mg/m2. Response rates 
were as follows: 
complete response 
partial response 
stable  
progression 
0 % 
61.8 % 
26.5 % 
11.8 % 
Results obtained from this study were considered as encouraging in terms of response and reduction of 
pain in all patients included those who received previous chemotherapy. Median duration of response 
was 92 days. Effects on survival were not significant as 37 patients had died by the cut-off date. 
To  support  the  efficacy  of  Caelyx  in  patients  who  are  either  resistant  to  prior  chemotherapy  or 
intolerant  to  prior  chemotherapy  due  to  toxicity,  data  obtained  from  a  cohort  of  77  “refractory” 
patients  within  the  study  30-12  have  been  submitted.  These  77  patients  received  substantial  prior 
therapy for KS, prior to enrolment in the study. Forty patients received local radiation therapy, thirty 
received  intralesional  injections  of  vinblastine  and  twenty  received  systemic  treatment  with  alfa-
interferon.  Many  patients  received  single  agent  chemotherapy  and  all  patients  received  combination 
systemic chemotherapy comprising at least two of the following agents: a vinca alkaloid, bleomycin 
and doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). The % antitumour response in these patients was 57%. 
The  analysis  of  these  two  studies  has  been  adjusted  according  to  leucopenia,  systemic  illness 
(including prior opportunistic infection) and CD4 cell counts. It has been therefore demonstrated that 
the  overall response rate for patients with initial  neutropenia (ANC < 2000  cells/mm3) is essentially 
the same (69.3%) as for patients with higher neutrophil counts at baseline (76.6%). In the same way, 
response rates are similar for patients with good risk (79%) and poor risk at baseline (68%) based on 
the extent of their systemic illness. With respect to CD4 counts, response rates are similar for patients 
with CD4 counts < 50 cells/mm3 and CD4 counts > 50 cells/mm3. However, 1% of patients with CD4 
< 50 cells/mm2 had a complete response against 10% of patients with highest CD4 counts. 
6/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  was  suggested  that  data  should  be  provided  from  randomised  controlled  studies  in  order  to  give 
adequate  evidence  of  efficacy  of  Caelyx.  Therefore  the  company  submitted  further  data  based  on  a 
prospectively  randomised  controlled,  parallel,  multicentre  study  of  Caelyx  (20  mg/m2)  versus  ABV 
[Adriamycin  (doxorubicin)  (20  mg/m2),  bleomycin  (10  U/m2)  and  1  mg  vincristine]  administered 
every  2  weeks  for  up  to  6  cycles  for  Caelyx  and  for  ABV.  The  study  involved  258  patients  with 
moderate  to  severe  KS  (patient  demography:  male  98%,  Caucasian  75%,  mean  age  38  years, 
homosexual > 90%). Caelyx and ABV treatment arms involved 133 and 125 patients respectively. As 
for the studies mentioned above, most of the patients fell into a poor prognosis group. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was based on the response rate to therapy (5 criteria: complete, clinical 
complete, partial response, stable and progressive disease) whereas the clinical benefit was judged on 
the  basis  of  patient’s  assessment  of  lesion  pain,  the  presence  of  signs  and  symptoms  related  to 
systemic  lesions,  Karnofsky  performance  status  and  two  quality  of  life  (QOL)  questionnaires.  One 
questionnaire  for  assessing  QOL  was  disease-specific  for  AIDS-related  KS  and  the  other  was 
developed  by  Wu  utilising  HIV-relevant  items  from  the  Medical  Outcomes  Study  and  validated  by 
comparing patients with asymptomatic HIV infections and patients with AIDS-related complex. 
A  statistically  significant  difference  in  favour  of  Caelyx  was  demonstrated  with  respect  to  the 
complete/partial response rate at the end of the treatment (46% and 26% response rate for Caelyx and 
ABV respectively). Duration of response was similar in both groups (mean duration 92.5 days versus 
84.8  days,  median  duration  90  versus  92  days  for  Caelyx  and  ABV  respectively)  as  well  as  patient 
survival. The recording of lesion characteristics other than size, such as thickness, nodularity, oedema, 
colour and pain showed an improvement from baseline measurements for both studied groups. Death 
was not a study endpoint, but median survival was 160 days with Caelyx and 153 with ABV. 
With  respect  to  the  QOL  questionnaires,  there  were  statistically  significant  differences  in  favour  of 
Caelyx in 5/9 domains: general health, pain, social functioning, energy level and health distress. With 
respect  to  the  KS-specific  questionnaire,  there  were  statistically  significant  differences  in  favour  of 
Caelyx  in  4/9  domains:  pulmonary  dysfunction/pain,  restricted  head/limb  movement,  exercise 
limitation and sleep disturbance. 
In summary, this well-designed  and well-conducted  study showed  equivalence  and in some respects 
superiority of Caelyx compared to ABV in disease symptoms and cosmetic benefit. Although none of 
the  components  of  ABV  is  licensed  for  the  treatment  of  AIDS-KS,  the  choice  of  comparator  is 
justified  since  it  is  currently  recognised  as  an  effective  combination  therapy  for  advanced  AIDS-
related KS. 
As visceral KS affecting lungs is associated with a higher increase of death (48.6% of patients with 
KS in the lungs died on study compared to 33.9% of patients with other KS sites), a further evaluation 
of  patients  with  such  conditions  in  the  three  main  studies  indicated  that  doses  and  duration  of 
treatment  for  subjects  with  lung  involvement  were  not  different  from  patients  without  lung 
involvement.  
The  active  control  study  (30-11)  designed  as  a  randomised  comparative  trial  of  Caelyx  versus 
bleomycin and vincristine (BV) confirmed the efficacy of C in the treatment of AIDS-related KS. The 
objectives  of  this  trial  were  to  determine  the  efficacy  of  Caelyx  by  comparison  with  an  established 
therapy  and  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerance  in  a  population  of  AIDS  patients  with  moderate  to 
severe KS.  
A total of 241 patients with moderate to severe KS were involved, of whom 218 were evaluable for 
efficacy. Patients received intravenously either Caelyx administered at 20 mg/m2 every three weeks or 
BV (15 mg/m2 bleomycin and 1.4  mg/m2 vincristine) administered in cycles every three weeks. The 
mean number of cycles per patient was 4.8 for Caelyx and 3.7 for BV. The primary endpoint was the 
therapeutic  response  defined  as  complete  response,  clinically  complete  response,  partial  response, 
stable and progression. The secondary endpoints included the patient’s assessment of the lesion pain, 
the presence of signs and symptoms related to systemic lesions, Karnofsky performance status and two 
7/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality  of  Life  (QoOL)  questionnaires  including  one  disease-specific  for  AIDS-related  KS 
questionnaire. Results obtained from the study at the end of the treatment were as follows: 
Complete response 
Clinically complete response 
Partial response 
Stable 
Progression 
CAELYX 
0 % 
3.3 % 
35.5 % 
32.2 % 
9.9 % 
BV 
0 % 
0 % 
14.2 % 
45.0 % 
21.7 % 
No patient showed complete response to either therapy. 
A statistically significant difference (p < 0.001) in favour of Caelyx was demonstrated with regard to 
the clinically complete/partial response at the end of the treatment (38.8% and 14.2% response rate for 
Caelyx  and  BV  respectively).  The  recording  lesion  characteristics  (thickness,  nodularity,  oedema, 
colour,  pain  and  size)  showed  a  statistically  significant  improvement  from  baseline  versus  end  of 
treatment  in  Caelyx  group  (p  <  0.006).  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between 
Caelyx  and  BV  in  terms  of  change  from  baseline  measurements  in  cutaneous  and  gastrointestinal 
lesion involvement by KS or in Karnofskyi performance status. With respect to the QoOL, there were 
statistically significant differences from baseline in favour of Caelyx in cognitive functioning and in 
difficulty wearing clothes. 
Based on these results, Caelyx appeared to be effective in the treatment of AIDS-related KS in patients 
with  low  CD4  counts  (<  200  CD4  cells/mm3)  and  extensive  mucocutaneous  or  visceral  disease.  A 
better compliance and a higher response rate is associated with Caelyx than with BV. 
Safety 
The safety profile of Caelyx was established based on results obtained from original data submitted, 
the comparative study with a second objective aimed to evaluate the safety and tolerance of Caelyx in 
comparison to ABV, from the AIDS-KS patient safety database updated to September 1995 including 
the  follow-up  of  the  second  uncontrolled  study  which  has  since  the  end  of  1994  become  a 
compassionate use protocol. The second comparative trial (30-11) provided additional safety data.  
With respect to results obtained from the first comparative study, Caelyx compared to ABV has been 
demonstrated to have a better tolerance since 68% of the patients completed the prescribed six cycles 
of treatment with this medicinal product against 34% with ABV. Data obtained from the comparative 
study support the fact that Caelyx is safer than conventional doxorubicin at the same dose in terms of 
myelotoxicity,  cardiotoxicity,  or  other  drug-related  toxicities  regardless  of  relationship  to  treatment 
(see table 1).  
Table 1: Summary of safety data obtained from the comparative study 
Patients completing protocol 
Hair loss 
Severe neutropaenia 
(ANC < 500) 
Mucositis/stomatitis 
Nausea/vomiting 
Peripheral neuropathy 
Caelyx 
(n = 133) 
68 % 
11 % 
7 %  
18 % 
34 % 
12 % 
ABV 
(n = 125) 
34 % 
42 % 
15 % 
8 % 
58 % 
28 % 
Considering these results, patient tolerance on Caelyx appeared to be better than on ABV, since 68% 
of  patients  on  Caelyx  completed  the  protocol  compared  to  34.4%  on  ABV.  Nausea/vomiting  and 
peripheral  neuropathy  seemed  to  be  less  common  with  Caelyx,  although  the  difference  was  not 
statistically significant. Although the overall incidence of neutropenia (ANC < 1000 cells/mm3) was 
similar, patients treated with ABV experienced a significantly higher probability of developing severe 
neutropenia (ANC < 500 cells/mm3) at sometime during the study than patients treated with Caelyx. 
8/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  higher  level  of  neutropaenia  was  associated  with  a  corresponding  higher  use  of  growth  factors  
(G-CSF) in the ABV-treated patients. 
In  study  30-11,  the  two  regimens  did  not  show  significant  differences  for  most  adverse  events. 
However  some  events  including  allergic  and  anaphylactic  reactions,  gastrointestinal  disturbances, 
confusion and dizziness were at least twice more frequent with Caelyx than with BV treatment. 
Significantly more patients terminated early BV treatment than Caelyx due in particularly to adverse 
events (26.7% versus 10.7% respectively). 
In  this  study  opportunistic  infections  with  three  organisms  (candidiasis,  herpesx  simplex  and 
toxoplasmosis)  were  statistically  significantly  more  frequent  following  Caelyx  than  following  BV 
treatment.  When adjusted  for  duration  of exposure,  the frequency of  opportunistic infections  is  only 
slightly  higher  following  Caelyx  treatment  which  suggested  that  this  difference  might  be  due  to  a 
better  compliance  and  longer  exposure  with  the  Caelyx  regimen  (median  160.0  days  with  Caelyx 
versus 62.5 days with BV). A higher frequency of leucopenia, possibly or probably associated to the 
drug was associated with Caelyx (71.9% versus 38.3% with BV). 
So  far,  the  overall  treatment-related  safety  profile  of  Caelyx  seemed  to  be  favourable  to  Caelyx 
compared with the alternative combination therapy, since there are less risks associated with Caelyx 
and  a  better  tolerability.  However,  in  the  comparative  trial  with  the  BV  combination  (Study  30-11) 
cases of opportunistic infections, anaphylaxis, confusion and dizziness have been highlighted.  
Ovarian cancer 
The  pivotal  trial  30-49  submitted  in  support  of  this  indicationn  was  a  Phase  III  open  randomised 
comparative trial in women with advanced ovarian cancer who have failed a first-line platinum based 
chemotherapy regimen, with topotecan as the active comparator. In addition results from three Phase 
II studies were submitted. 
Summary of Phase II studies 
All three single arm trials targeted patients with recurrent ovarian carcinoma, with studies 30-47 and 
30-47E  including  patients  specifically  refractory  to  both  platinum  and  paclitaxel.  All  safety  and 
efficacy analyses were based on the intent-to-treat (ITT) population. The dosing regimen was similar 
for  all  three  studies:  studies  47  and  47E  prescribed  a  50  mg/m2  dose  of  Caelyx  on  a  4-week  dosing 
interval whilst study 30- 22 prescribed a 3-week dosing interval. 
The  protocols  used  consistent  definitions  for  evaluating  response  (the  primary  efficacy  parameter). 
Responses were assessed by standard Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria, with confirmation 
four  weeks  later.  Responses  for  study  30-22  and  30-47  underwent  independent  radiological  review. 
The  secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  time  to  response,  duration  of  response  and  time  to 
progression. 
The  overall  response  rate  for  the  intent-to-treat  population  varied  from  6.5%  -  20%  (Table  1).  The 
overall  response  rate  in  the  combined  intent-to-treat  population  is  12.3%.  The  majority  of  patients 
experienced a partial response (25/27). The median time to progression varied from 81 to 172 days.  
Table 1 Efficacy in the ITT population 
Study 
Efficacy parameters 
Objective 
Response 
30-22 
30-47 
30-47E 
20% 
13.1% 
6.5% 
Median 
Time to 
Response 
(days) 
167 
106 
57 
Median 
Duration of 
Response 
(days) 
427 
285 
124 
Median Time 
to 
Progression 
(days) 
172 
142 
81 
Median Overall 
Survival 
(days) 
376 
N/A 
N/A 
Data  from  the  European  47E  study  showed  a  lower  response  rate  than  the  US  47  study  (6.5%  vs 
13.1%) and a shorter median time to progression (81 days versus 142 days). A detailed review of prior 
chemotherapy treatment revealed some significant differences between the studies. In particular more 
patients in study 47 had received paclitaxel combined with platinum as their first-line therapy than the 
patients in study 47E (75% vs 40%). It is recognised that the introduction of paclitaxel into first line 
therapy  has  a  significant  impact  on  overall  survival  in  ovarian  cancer  and  thus  may  explain  these 
differences. 
9/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  have  provided  further  information  on  overall  response  rates  in  the  platinum/paclitaxel 
refractory  patients  (14.5%)  and  in  the  platinum/paclitaxel/topotecan  refractory  population  (9%).  The 
combined refractory patients accounted for 188/219 ITT population.  
However,  the  overall  response  rate  of  the  combined  refractory  population  is  a  modest  12.2%,  very 
similar to the overall ITT cohort (12.3%).   
Caelyx  response  rate  based  on  prior  platinum  response  was  also  evaluated.  Patients  who  progress 
during their last platinum-containing regimen have a poorer prognosis than those who progress at a 
later time. This trend is also apparent in the refractory patients treated with Caelyx. 
Phase III Study 
The  pivotal  trial  30-49  was  an  open  randomised  comparative  trial  in  women  with  advanced  ovarian 
cancer who have failed a first-line platinum based chemotherapy regimen, with topotecan as the active 
comparator. 
The  final  analysis  includes  474  patients  in  the  ITT  population;  416  of  these  patients  met  protocol-
specified  enrolment  criteria  and  received  at  least  2  cycles  of  study  drug  (evaluable  population). 
321/416 (77%) of the evaluable patients had received prior combination paclitaxel/platinum therapy. 
439/474 (93%) of patients had progressed or died (217 Caelyx; 222 topotecan) and only 5/474 (1%)  
(4 Caelyx; 1 topotecan) were still being treated. 
Efficacy 
The  primary  endpoint  was  time  to  progression  (TTP)  for  the  evaluable  population,  with  overall 
survival  and  response  rate  serving  as  secondary  endpoints.  Kaplan-Meier  estimates  of  time  to 
progression  and  overall  survival  were  generated  for  both  the  evaluable  and  ITT  populations  and  the 
treatment groups were compared using the stratified log-rank test. Hazard ratios for topotecan relative 
to Caelyx were calculated and protocol-specified 90% and interim analysis adjusted 91.6% confidence 
intervals were provided. 
The  MAH  claims  that  whereas  the  study  was  designed  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority,  the  results  of 
the  protocol-specified  endpoint  (time  to  progression  in  the  evaluable  population)  demonstrate 
superiority of Caelyx over topotecan (hazard ratio 1.262, 90% CI 1.062-1.500, p=0.026). The results 
for  the  ITT  population  were  similar  but  did  not  reach  statistical  significance.  However,  the  study 
investigators were responsible for assigning treatment response, including radiographic response, and 
were not blinded to treatment assignment. Independent confirmation of the CT scans was not specified 
in the protocol and thus the risk of potential bias in assessment of the primary efficacy endpoint has 
not  been  adequately  addressed.  In  addition,  there  are  statistical  concerns  regarding  the  proportional 
hazards  assumption.  Therefore,  a  significant  improvement  in  time  to  progression  has  not  been 
established for Caelyx relative to topotecan. 
Given the clinical and statistical reservations relating to the primary endpoint, overall survival would 
seem  the  better  end-point  to  base  conclusions  upon,  because  overall  survival  is  unaffected  by  any 
potential tumour assessment bias. Overall survival was similar for Caelyx and topotecan for both the 
evaluable  and  ITT  populations,  with  the  hazard  ratio  favouring  Caelyx  (HR  1.121,  90%  CI  0.920-
1.367, ITT population). As topotecan is an appropriate comparator, there is adequate evidence of the 
non-inferiority of Caelyx for the indication proposed.  
Platinum sensitive and platinum refractory patients 
Both  time  to  progression  and  overall  survival  were  significantly  longer  for  Caelyx  as  compared  to 
topotecan-treated patients in the platinum sensitive sub-group. Therefore, there is strong evidence of 
efficacy in patients with platinum-sensitive disease. In platinum refractory patients the survival trend 
favours topotecan (HR = 0.895, 90% CI 0.700 – 1.143). The evidence of non-inferiority is therefore 
less  convincing  in  platinum  refractory  than  in  platinum  sensitive  patients.  However,  the  distinction 
between  these  two  platinum  sub-groups  is  not  a  standardised  one  and  in  practice  is  only  used  when 
considering subsequent treatment with a platinum-containing regimen.   
Safety and quality of life (QOL) 
The median dose of Caelyx delivered was 50 mg/m2, with a median cycle length of 30 days; median 
dose  of  topotecan  delivered  was  7  mg/m2,  with  a  median  cycle  length  of  24  days.  Most  patients 
received 4 to 5 cycles of study drug. 
Most  patients  discontinued  the  study  drug  due  to  disease  progression:  48%  for  Caelyx  and  47%  for 
topotecan.  Slightly  more  patients  treated  with  Caelyx  discontinued  because  of  adverse  events  
10/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(16%  versus  12%  of  patients  treated  with  topotecan).  Overall,  treatment-related  adverse  events 
observed with Caelyx tended to be of non-serious and of mild or moderate severity; however palmar-
plantar  erythrodysesthesia  (PPE)  was  severe  in  23%  and  stomatitis  was  severe  in  8%  of  patients 
treated with Caelyx. 
Both the incidence and severity of haematologic adverse events were greater with topotecan than with 
Caelyx.  Neutropenia  and  anaemia  were  reported  in  78%  of  the  topotecan  group  compared  to  about 
35%  with  Caelyx.  Neutropenia  was  severe  or  life-  threatening  in  71%  of  topotecan-treated  patients 
(including  2  deaths),  compared  with  only  12%  of  Caelyx-treated  patients.  In  addition,  nausea  and 
alopecia were more common with topotecan than with Caelyx. 
Overall, the treatment impact on patients’ health-related QOL was similar between the two treatments. 
QOL was assessed at week 12, and therefore data is only available on the 50% of patients who still 
remained in the study. Comparison of the groups in terms of maintenance of or improvement in scores 
from  baseline  to  12  weeks  indicated  a  minor  advantage  in  role/social  functioning  and  global  QOL 
scores for the Caelyx-treated group compared with the topotecan-treated group. However, topotecan-
treated patients experienced significantly less pain than Caelyx-treated patients (81% versus 64% with 
maintenance of or improvement in pain scores) associated with an advantage in emotional functioning 
(74%  versus  67%).  PPE  may  have  been  responsible  for  the  reported  worsening  of  Pain  score  in  the 
Caelyx-treated patients. 
The global QOL was the same for platinum sensitive and refractory sub-groups, with 60% of patients 
reporting maintenance or improvement in global QOL scores at 12 weeks. Overall there appears to be 
adequate evidence of a favourable safety profile for Caelyx for the indication proposed. The benefit to 
risk balance of Caelyx seems comparable to that of topotecan in this indication. 
5. 
Overall conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Caelyx,  a  pegylated  liposomal  formulation  of  doxorubicin  hydrochloride,  was  developed  to  provide 
effective palliative therapy for symptomatic AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma with an acceptable level 
of toxicity. 
The chemical and pharmaceutical data were adequate to support the quality of this original liposomal 
formulation. 
As  the  active  substance  is  already  well-  known,  the  toxicological  programme  presented  was 
considered sufficient. 
Caelyx in the treatment of AIDS-KS patients is an effective palliative single agent therapy which has 
statistically  significantly  superior  efficacy  and  tolerability  compared  with  a  current  standard 
combination  chemotherapy,  ABV,  which  is  an  appropriate  comparator  in  this  particular  patient 
population. Evidence of efficacy in refractory patients, has also been provided. 
The CPMP has considered during the review process that, with regard to the data provided, the overall 
benefit/risk  ratio  for  Caelyx  is  favourable  for  the  proposed  regimen  in  AIDS  related  KS  and 
recommended  granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  for  Caelyx  for  AIDS-related  Kaposi’s  sarcoma 
(KS) in patients with low CD4  counts (< 200 CD4 lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive  mucocutaneous 
or visceral disease. 
In a subsequent variation, data were provided regarding the efficacy and safety of Caelyx in patients 
with advanced ovarian cancer. The CPMP reviewed the submitted trials and considered that there is 
adequate evidence of a favourable benefit/risk ratio for Caelyx for the proposed indication: treatment 
of  advanced  ovarian  cancer  in  women  who  have  failed  a  first-line  platinum  based  chemotherapy 
regimen.  Whilst  the  evidence  of  non-inferiority  is  less  convincing  in  platinum  refractory  than  in 
platinum  sensitive  patients,  the  distinction  between  these  two  platinum  sub-groups  is  not  a 
standardised one and in practice is only used when considering subsequent treatment with a platinum-
containing regimen.  
Therefore, the CPMP recommended the extension to the Marketing Authorisation to include treatment 
of  advanced  ovarian  cancer  in  women  who  have  failed  a  first-line  platinum  based  chemotherapy 
regimen. 
11/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Metastatic Breast Cancer 
The indication of Caelyx was further extended in the area of the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. 
Tthe following two indications were initially applied for:  
1 
2 
 Metastatic breast cancer in women for whom an anthracycline would be considered. 
 Metastatic breast cancer in women who have failed a taxane containing regimen. 
Following  the  evaluation  of  the  dossier,  the  second  indication  was  withdrawn  by  the  MAH  and  the 
first was modified. The proposed posology was the same as for ovarian carcinoma and is as follows: 
• 
Caelyx is administered intravenously at a dose of 50 mg/m2 once every 4 weeks for as long as 
the disease does not progress and the patient continues to tolerate treatment 
The safety profile of Caelyx differs from that of conventional doxorubicin formulations.  In particular 
it is associated with palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE), an adverse effect not generally seen with 
conventional doxorubicin formulations. PPE is characterised by a  painful  macular  red skin eruption, 
particularly of the soles and palms.  Allergic type infusion phenomena are also rather more frequent 
than with conventional doxorubicin formulations.  Caelyx is, however, associated with less alopecia, 
nausea,  vomiting  and  myelosuppression  than  equally  effective  doses  of  conventional  doxorubicin.  
The question of its cardiotoxicity compared to conventional formulations in the setting of metastatic 
breast cancer was considered in this application.   
Information  was  also  proposed  for  inclusion  into  the  SmPC  which  effectively  claims  that  Caelyx  is 
associated with less cardiotoxicity in this indication than conventional doxorubicin formulations.   
In addition, the pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin differ when administered as Caelyx. Distribution is 
largely confined to the plasma compartment and the mean half life is much prolonged (73.8 hours) in 
comparison to conventional doxorubicin formulations.   
- 
Clinical  aspects 
Three  relevant  studies  were  provided  to  support  the  application.    These  comprised  one  dose-finding 
breast cancer trial and two phase III studies conducted in subjects with metastatic breast cancer.  
- 
- 
Study 30-17, a dose-finding trial in altogether 73 patients with breast cancer. 
Protocol  I97-328,  a  Phase  III,  randomised,  comparative  trial  that  compared  the  efficacy  and 
cardiac  safety  of  Caelyx  to  that  of  conventional  doxorubicin  in  the  first-line  treatment  of 
metastatic breast cancer 
Protocol C/I96-352, a Phase III, randomised, comparative study that compared the efficacy and 
safety of Caelyx with an approved salvage regimen (vinorelbine or mitomycin C + vinblastine) 
in women with advanced breast cancer who had failed a taxane-containing regimen. 
- 
Pharmacokinetics. 
Population PK data were provided for 18 breast cancer patients for whom data are available. The 
kinetics of Caelyx in those with breast cancer appears similar to those with other tumours.   
Dose- finding study 
Study (30-17) was presented to justify the choice of dose. 73 patients were recruited who had either 
previously received no previous chemotherapy or, alternatively, had received cyclophosphamide and 
5-Fluorouracil.  The following dose schedules of Caelyx were assessed: 60mg/m2 every 21 days, 
45mg/m2 every 28 days, 45mg/m2 every 21 days, 60mg/m2 every 28 days for two cycles followed by 
45mg/m2 every 28 days.  
The dose regimen of 45mg/m2 every 4 weeks was considered the optimal one of those studied. The 
dosage employed for the subsequent phase III trials was similar, 50 mg/m2 every 4 weeks, which is 
also the approved dosage of Caelyx for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer.   
Efficacy in first line treatment 
Phase III open label study I97-328 compared Caelyx to conventional doxorubicin.  
12/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
The protocol of the study is summarised in table 1: 
Table 1. Protocol I97-328 outline 
Study Design 
Study Sites 
Study Dates 
Major Entry Criteria 
Randomised, open, comparative 
68 sites, multinational 
24 June, 1998 – 26 July 2001 
•  metastatic breast cancer 
• 
•  measurable or evaluable disease 
•  LVEF ≥ lower limit of normal 
•  Normal haematologic, renal and  hepatic function  
•  or elevated bilirubin/ ALT/AST up to 4x upper limit of normal 
first-line treatment of advanced disease 
if secondary to liver metastases 
•  prior adjuvant anthracycline therapy with a cumulative 
doxorubicin dosage (or doxorubicin-equivalent) ≤300 mg/m2 or 
a cumulative epirubicin dosage ≤540 mg/m2. 
Caelyx Dosing 
Comparator Dosing 
Duration of Treatment 
Primary Efficacy Variable (s)  Progression-free survival 
50 mg/m2 every 4 weeks 
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 as an infusion up to 60 min. every 3 weeks 
Until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression 
Secondary Efficacy Variables  •  Overall survival 
Cardiac toxicity 
Safety Variables 
Overall response rate;  
Clinical benefit response; 
Health-related quality of life; and 
Health care resource utilisation 
Adverse events and laboratory tests 
This  pivotal  phase  III  open  label  study  was  conducted  in  multiple  centres  across  Europe,  Canada, 
South America and Israel.  The purpose of the study was to demonstrate that Caelyx was non-inferior 
to doxorubicin with regard to progression free survival and that Caelyx was superior to conventional 
doxorubicin with regard to cardiac toxicity.  
509 patients with metastatic breast cancer were randomised to receive either Caelyx 50 mg/m2 every 4 
weeks by IV infusion or conventional doxorubicin 60mg/m2 IV every 3 weeks.  The primary endpoints 
were  a  comparison  of  progression  free  survival  and  cardiac  toxicity.    Secondary  endpoints  included 
overall survival, and response rate.   
Subjects  were  stratified  prior  to  randomisation  according  to  the  following  parameters:  1)  previous 
adjuvant  anthracycline  therapy;  2)  presence  of  bone  metastases  as  only  site  of  disease;  and  3)  the 
presence  of  any  one  of  the  following  cardiac  risk  factors:  prior  mediastinal  irradiation,  age  ≥65, 
history of heart disease (previous MI, arrhythmia, or angina), hypertension, or diabetes that required 
medical treatment. Due to characteristic side effects, a double blind design was not considered to be 
possible. 
Cardiac toxicity during treatment and follow-up was defined as a decrease of 20 points or greater from 
baseline if the resting LVEF remained in the normal range or a decrease of 10 points or greater if the 
LVEF  became  abnormal  (less  than  the  institution's  lower  limit  for  normal).  Subjects  were  also 
assessed for signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure (CHF).   
Tumour response status was evaluated clinically every 3 weeks for doxorubicin and every 4 weeks for 
Caelyx  and  by  diagnostic  scans  (CT  or  MRI,  and  bone  scan)  every  3  months.  The  protocol  states: 
“Radiologic studies of all responding patients (CR, PR) must be made available for subsequent central 
review”. According to the protocol, assessment of tumour status was to continue every 3 months after 
discontinuation of therapy, until progressive disease had been shown. According to the analysis plan, 
13/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects  with  no  tumour  assessment  and  who  did  not  die  within  4  months  after  the  last  assessment 
were to be censored.  Deaths within 4 months of the last assessment were considered events. 
Results. 
Baseline patient characteristics are shown in tables 2 and 3. 
Table 2. Demography data 
Age (years) 
<50 
50–65 
>65 
Median 
Premenopausal 
Postmenopausal 
Performance Status (WHO) 
0 
1 
2 
Table 3. Baseline Disease Characteristics 
Number of Metastatic Sites  
1 
2 
>2 
Metastatic Site   
Visceral  
Sites of Metastasesa 
Brain 
Bone Only 
Chest wall 
Abdomen 
Bone 
Lung 
Lymph Nodes 
Liver 
Pleural Effusion 
Other 
Oestrogen Receptor Status 
Negative 
Positive 
Unknown 
Prior Oncology Therapyb 
Adjuvant only 
Advanced only 
None Specified 
Disease Free Intervalc  0-<12 
Yes 
12-<24 
24-<36 
≥36 
Median 
Months from Metastatic Diagnosis to 
Randomizsation 
0-<1 
1-<2 
≥2 
Median 
Number (%) of Subjects 
CAELYX 
(n=254) 
Doxorubicin 
(n=255) 
60 (23.6) 
123 (48.4) 
71 (27.9) 
59  
78 (30.7) 
175 (68.8) 
137 (53.9) 
94 (37.0) 
23 (9.0) 
66 (25.8) 
129 (50.5) 
60 (23.5) 
58  
90 (35.2) 
159 (62.3) 
125 (49.0) 
101 (39.6) 
28 (10.9) 
Number (%) of Subjects 
CAELYX 
(n=254) 
94 (37.0) 
83 (32.6) 
77 (30.3) 
149 (58.6) 
24 (9.4) 
1 (0.4) 
29 (11.4) 
5 (2.0) 
125 (49.2) 
90 (35.4) 
116 (45.7) 
88 (34.6) 
36 (14.2) 
43 (16.9) 
54 (21.2) 
90 (35.4) 
110 (43.3) 
166 (65.3) 
23 (9.0) 
128 (50.3) 
88 (34.6) 
102 (40.1) 
26 (10.2) 
38 (14.9) 
88 (34.6) 
23.65 
Doxorubicin 
(n=255) 
104 (40.7) 
79 (30.9) 
72 (28.2) 
143 (56.0) 
26 (10.1) 
2 (0.8) 
27 (10.6) 
6 (2.4) 
111 (43.5) 
93 (36.5) 
121 (47.5) 
79 (31.0) 
33 (12.9) 
36 (14.1) 
59 (23.1) 
102 (40.0) 
94 (36.8) 
158 (61.9) 
20 (7.8) 
129 (50.5) 
97 (38.0) 
101 (39.6) 
22 (8.6) 
27 (10.5) 
105 (41.1) 
25.2 
108 (42.5) 
51 (20.0) 
95 (37.4) 
1.1 
98 (38.4) 
54 (21.1) 
103 (40.3) 
1.3 
14/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number (%) of Subjects 
CAELYX 
(n=254) 
Doxorubicin 
(n=255) 
216 (85.0) 
6 (2.3) 
31 (12.2) 
1 (0.3) 
132 (51.9) 
122 (48.0) 
11 (4.3) 
1 (0.4) 
30 (11.8) 
37 (14.6) 
43 (16.9) 
215 (84.3) 
5 (1.9) 
33 (12.9) 
2 (0.7) 
134 (52.5) 
121 (47.4) 
8 (3.1) 
1 (0.4) 
42 (16.5) 
33 (12.9) 
37 (14.5) 
Baseline Cumulative Anthracycline Dose 
(mg/m2) 
None 
>0-<150 
150–300 
>300 
Cardiac Risk Factors   No 
Yes 
Mediastinal irradiationd 
History of heart diseased 
History of hypertensiond 
Age ≥65d 
≥2 Risk factors 
A subject may have more than 1 metastatic site. 
Chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. 
Months from primary diagnosis to metastatic disease. 
Number of subjects with only this risk factor. 
a: 
b: 
c: 
d: 
There were 28% of patients in the doxorubicin arm and 43% in the Caelyx arm discontinued due to 
progressive disease. Reasons for discontinuation are presented in table 4. 
Table 4. Primary Reason for Discontinuation 
Disease progression 
1 -<3 months after randomisation 
3-<6  
6-<9  
9+  
Investigator Discretion 
Adverse events 
Cardiac toxicity 
Subject request 
Noncompliance 
CAELYX (n=254) 
104 (42.5) 
Doxorubicin (n=255)  
72 (28.2) 
39 (15.4) 
35 (13.8) 
22 (8.7) 
12 (4.7) 
60 (23.6) 
56 (22) 
6 (2.4) 
16 (6.3) 
2 (0.8) 
32 (12.5) 
34 (13.3) 
6 (2.4) 
0 
92 (36.1) 
24 (9.4) 
36 (14.1) 
25 (9.8) 
6 (2.4) 
Progression-free survival. The median progression free survival was 6.9 months in the Caelyx arm and 
7.8 months in the conventional doxorubicin arm (table 5 and Figure 1). 
Table 5. Progression Free Survival for trial I97-328 
Number of Subjects 
n 
254 
255 
Censored 
52 
47 
Progresseda  Median PFS  
6.9 months 
7.8 months 
202 
208 
Caelyx 
Doxorubicin 
a:  Deaths within 4 months of last tumor evaluation indicating no progression also are considered events. 
b:  Stratified log rank test to test superiority of CAELYX to doxorubicin. 
c:  Adjusted for the interim analysis (95.01% CI provided). 
0.82-1.22 
0.99 
1.00 
p-valueb 
HR 
95% CI for HRc 
Figure 1. Progression free survival for trial I97-328 
15/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Overall survival for trial I97-328 
Table 6. Overall survival for trial I97-328 
Dead 
144 
142 
Censored 
110 
113 
n 
254 
255 
Caelyx 
Doxorubicin 
a:  Stratified log rank test to test superiority of CAELYX to doxorubicin. 
b:  Adjusted for the interim analysis (95.01% CI provided). 
Median OS  
21 months 
22 months 
0.59 
p-valuea 
HR 
0.94 
95% CI for HRb 
0.74–1.19 
16/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tumour response  
There were altogether 410 patients with measurable disease, but of these 103 were not evaluated for 
tumour  response.  In  the  majority,  these  patients  received  less  than  12  weeks  of  therapy  and  “an 
assessment was not required by the protocol” (study report).  
Objective Response (WHO) (patients with measurable disease) 33% of patients who received Caelyx 
were classified as responders (CR & PR) compared to 38% who received conventional doxorubicin. 
Table 7. Tumour response results for trial I97-328 
CAELYX (n=209) 
68 (33) 
Overall Response (CR+PR) 
Doxorubicin (n=201) 
77 (38) 
95% CI for difference 
-15%; +4% 
CR 
PR 
Stable Disease (SD) 
Progressive Disease (PD) 
No Assessment 
52 (25) 
37 (18) 
52 (25) 
7 (3) 
61 (29) 
9 (4) 
68 (34) 
51 (25) 
22 (11) 
51 (25) 
Quality of life assessment was undertaken using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire.  At the 12-week 
time point specified, the results significantly favoured doxorubicin over Caelyx with 32% and 20% of 
patients  respectively  achieving  a  “Clinical  Benefit  Response”  (CBR).  However,  mean  changes  from 
baseline  for  all  functioning  domains  throughout  cycles  1-4  were  small  (<8  points)  in  both  groups. 
EORTC  QLC-C30  symptom  scores  were  comparable  with  both  Caelyx  and  doxorubicin,  and 
palliation of disease-related symptoms was observed in both treatmnent groups. 
Cardiac toxicity results are described under “Safety”section. 
Study C/I96-352.  
Study C/I96-352 was a phase III open label study which employed a randomised open label parallel 
group design, which was submitted in support of the salvage indication: “treatment  of  women with 
metastatic  breast  cancer  who  had  failed  first-  or  second-line  therapy  with  a  taxane-containing 
regimen”  (this  claim  was  withdrawn  by  the  MAH).    The  trial  compared  Caelyx  with  2  salvage 
regimens  in  women  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  who  had  failed  first-or  second-line  therapy  with  a 
taxane-containing regimen.  301 patients were randomised to receive either Caelyx 50mg/m2 every 4 
weeks or alternatively either vinorelbine 30mg/m2 weekly or a combination of mitomycin C 10mg/m2 
IV on Days 1 and 28 and vinblastine, 5 mg/m2 IV on days 1, 14, 28 and 42 for 2 cycles (Days 1-56); 
subsequent cycles: mitomycin C, 10 mg/m2 IV on day 1 and vinblastine at 5 mg/m2 IV on Days 1 and 
21. Mitomycin C was administered at 6-8 week intervals after adequante hematologic recovery.  The 
choice of this alternative comparator regimen was at the discretion of the investigator. Of the patients 
enrolled on the comparator arm, 85% received vinorelbine.   
The  primary efficacy criterion was  progression free survival.  Secondary efficacy variables included 
overall response rate, response duration and overall survival. The primary objective of the study was 
originally to show the superiority of Caelyx to the active comparator, with regard to Progression Free 
Survival.    However,  when  this  superiority  was  not  demonstrated,  the  results  were  reconsidered  in 
terms of non-inferiority of Caelyx to the active comparator regimens. 
Progression-free  survival,  showed  a  trend  in favour  of treatment  with  Caelyx which  did  not achieve 
significance [Hazard Ratio = 1.26 ; (95% CI 0.98-1.62)].   
Overall Survival showed no significant difference between the treatments  
[Hazard Ratio = 1.07 ; (95% CI 0.79-1.45)] 
Objective Response Rate was similar between the treatments at around 10%.   
Quality of life assessment was undertaken using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire.  At the 12-week 
primary time point, 10% of Caelyx patients achieved a “Clinical Benefit Response” (CBR) compared 
with 7.9% of comparator patients.   
Cardiac  toxicity  was  defined  as  a  decrease  of  15%  or  greater  from  Baseline  or  a  5%  or  greater 
decrease from Baseline and the LVEF became abnormal.  Results are described under “Safety” section 
17/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety  
Table 8. Sources of Safety Data  
Source 
Caelyx as Monotherapy  
Protocol I97-328 
Protocol C/I96-352 
No. of Caelyx-
Treated 
Subjects 
Type of Data 
254 
150 
Comparative safety data 
vs. doxorubicin) 
Comparative safety data 
vs. Vinorelbine or 
mitomycin c + 
vinblastine 
Adverse events and 
clinical laboratory data 
929 
Integrated safety results of 16 clinical trials of Caelyx 
as a single agent a variety of solid tumours 
Experience with Caelyx Used in Combination With Other Chemotherapeutic Agents 
Integrated safety results of 8 clinical trials of 
CAELYX in combination with other chemotherapeutic 
agents against a variety of solid tumours 
Additional Information 
Postmarketing experience 
65,400 
222 
Adverse events and 
clinical laboratory data 
Spontaneous safety 
reports 
-  Deaths 
The number of deaths within 30 days after treatment completion was altogether 61 in the two pivotal 
studies, evenly distributed between Caelyx and comparators. 
-  Serious adverse events 
In  protocol I97-328,  SAEs were reported  by 34%  of Caelyx and 26%  of  doxorubicin subjects.  The 
pattern  was  overall  consistent  with  the  general  pattern  of  AEs  during  the  trial.    Individual  SAEs 
occurred  in  2%  or  fewer  subjects  in  either  group  with  the  exception  of  dyspnea  (4%)  and  palmar-
plantar  erythrodysesthesia  (PPE)  (6%)  in  the  Caelyx  group,  fever  (6%)  and  nausea  (4%)  with 
doxorubicin, vomiting (3% Caelyx, 5% doxorubicin), and neutropenia (3% Caelyx, 7% doxorubicin). 
Excluding  subjects  who  died,  there  were  27  subjects  in  protocol  C/I96-352  who  discontinued 
treatment  due  to  an  AE,  some  of  whom  also  had  an  AE  while  on  treatment,  15 Caelyx  subjects,  11 
vinorelbine subjects and 1 mitomycin C + vinblastine subject.  Excluding subjects who died and those 
who  discontinued  treatment  due  to  AE,  there  were  58  subjects  who  experienced  a  serious  AE  or  a 
medically  significant  event  while  on  treatment,  32 Caelyx  subjects,  23  vinorelbine  subjects  and 
3 mitomycin C + vinblastine subjects. 
The percentage of subjects who discontinued because of adverse events was similar among the breast 
cancer and solid-tumour studies: 24% in Protocol I97-328; 19% in Protocol C/I96-352; and 16% in the 
solid-tumour studies.  
Table 9. Most Common Adverse Events Cited as a Reason for Discontinuation  
Type of Adverse Event 
PPE /skin toxicity 
Infusion reactions 
Stomatitis/mucositis 
Cardiac 
Hematologic 
I97-328(n=254) 
21 (8) 
4 (2) 
5 (2) 
2 (<1) 
4 (2) 
No. (%) of Subjects 
C/I96-352 (n=150)  All Solid Tumour (n=929)
14 (9) 
2 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
3 (2) 
64 (7) 
19 (2) 
22 (2) 
13 (1) 
26 (3) 
18/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Most Frequently Reported ( to 1%) Treatment-Related Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events in  
Randomised Breast Cancer Studies 
Protocol No. I97-328 
(n=254) 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Protocol Nos. C/I96-352 
(n=150) 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
No. (%) of Subjects Reporting 
Treatment-Related Adverse 
Eventsa 
Hand-foot syndrome/PPE 
Stomatitis 
Mucositis nos 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Rash 
Abdominal pain 
Dyspnea 
Diarrhea 
Fever 
Pain 
Allergic reaction 
Alopecia 
Erythema 
Headache 
Anorexia 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Dermatitis exfoliative 
Rash Maculopapular 
Potential Treatment-Limiting Toxicities 
101 (40) 
42 (17) 
12 (5) 
10 (4) 
3 (1) 
2 (<1) 
2 (<1) 
8 (3) 
6 (2) 
3 (1) 
2 (<1) 
3 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
3 (1) 
0 
2 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
3 (1) 
4 (2) 
3 (1) 
3 (1) 
10 (4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
57 (38) 
27 (18) 
7 (5) 
4 (3) 
2 (1) 
6 (4) 
6 (4) 
5 (3) 
2 (1) 
1 (<1) 
3 (2) 
1 (<1) 
1 (<1) 
2 (1) 
0 
0 
3 (2) 
2 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
6 (4) 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Four toxicities have been shown to be potentially treatment-limiting for CAELYX monotherapy: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cardiac Toxicity 
Palmar-Plantar Erythrodysesthesia. 
Stomatitis,  
Infusion Reactions, which are not related to dose but can cause an interruption of a dose and, in 
severe cases, lead to discontinuation. 
Cardiac Toxicity (co-primary endpoint in study I97-328) 
Results of cardiotoxicity assessment as defined by LVEF and CHF signs and symptoms assessment 
are presented in Table 11. Overall, 339 subjects had electronic multigated radionucleotide (MUGA) 
scan data available for cardiotoxicity evaluations by the investigators (baseline and at least one scan 
during treatment). (Note: MUGAs were not required for subjects with low cumulative anthracycline 
doses.)  
Table 11. Patients meeting cardiac toxicity criteria during treatment and follow-up for trial I97-328 
95% CI for 
Caelyx (n=254) 
difference 
-20% to –9.4% 
Cardiotoxicity (LVEF defined) 
Doxorubicin (n=255) 
With signs or symptoms of CHF 
No signs or symptoms of CHF 
10 
0 
10 
48 
10 
38 
Additionally, 2 Caelyx subjects and 2 doxorubicin subjects, who did not have cardiotoxicity by LVEF 
criteria, developed signs and symptoms of heart failure during or after study treatment.  Of note, one 
of the Caelyx subjects developed heart failure after only 1 cycle and the other after 2 cycles. 
19/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 230 subjects who had electronic MUGA data available for independent review, 3 Caelyx 
subjects and 30 doxorubicin subjects met the protocol-specified LVEF criteria for cardiotoxicity. 
Table 12. Cumulative Anthracycline Dose at First Cardiac Event 
Cumulative 
Dose 
(mg/m2) 
≤100 
>100-200 
>200-300 
>300-400 
>400-450 
>450-500 
>500-550 
>550-600 
>600 
a: 
Censore
d 
0 
41 
3 
51 
1 
49 
3 
37 
3 
23 
0 
7 
0 
10 
0 
9 
0 
17 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Caelyx (n=254) 
Cardiac 
Event  Continued. 
Cum. % 
Cardiac 
Eventa 
0 
2 
2 
6 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
Censore
d 
16 
30 
35 
39 
23 
19 
28 
8 
9 
Doxorubicin (n=255) 
Cardia
c 
Event  Continued.
0 
0 
12 
9 
7 
9 
6 
1 
4 
239 
209 
162 
114 
84 
56 
22 
13 
0 
Cum. % 
Cardiac 
Eventa 
0 
0 
6 
12 
18 
28 
40 
43 
83 
213 
159 
109 
69 
43 
36 
26 
17 
0 
Anthracycline administered in the adjuvant situation is included in the cumulative dose estimates.  If 
there  is  a  difference  in  cardiotoxicity  between  Caelyx  and  conventional  doxorubicin,  this  way  to 
handle data is conservative.   
In study C/I96-352, a total of 22 subjects met the protocol-specified criteria for discontinuation due to 
cardiac toxicity, but apparently the majority experienced non-specific declines in LVEF, secondary to 
co-morbid  conditions,  such  as  disease  progression.    The  number  of  cardiac  biopsies  is  limited, 
however, but in a prior study, biopsy results of 10 KS subjects with cumulative Caelyx doses from 469 
to 860 mg/m2 showed minimal cardiotoxicity.  
Palmar-Plantar Erythrodysesthesia (PPE) 
The incidence and severity of PPE was similar among breast cancer subjects and subjects in the solid-
tumour studies.  The majority of reports of PPE were managed by delaying or reducing the dose.   
In the breast cancer studies, the occurrence of PPE in cycle 1 was 7% to 10%.  In the breast cancer 
studies  and  in  the  solid  tumour  studies,  the  incidence  of  PPE  peaked  in  Cycles  2  and  3  of  Caelyx 
treatment, and then declined in Cycles 4, 5, and 6  
Stomatitis 
Approximately  20%  of  subjects  in  the  breast  cancer  studies  and  36%  of  solid-tumour  subjects 
experienced  treatment-related  stomatitis.    No  breast  cancer  subject  reported  Grade  4  stomatitis,  and 
Grade 4 stomatitis was uncommon among subjects in the solid-tumour studies (<1%, 5/929). 
Infusion Reactions 
Infusion reactions were characterised by the following adverse events: allergic reaction, anaphylactic 
reaction, face oedema, flushing, hypotension, urticaria and wheezing.  Approximately 12% of breast 
cancer subjects experienced an infusion reaction.  One subject in the breast cancer studies, experienced 
a Grade 4 allergic reaction with the initial dose that was successfully managed with additional therapy 
and dose interruption, and the subject continued therapy for 13 cycles. 
A total of 6 breast cancer subjects discontinued therapy because of an infusion reaction, 4 in Protocol 
No. I97-328, and 2 in Protocol C/I96-352.  In all 4 subjects in Protocol I97-328, the infusion reactions 
were associated with immediate or delayed-type hypersensitivity. 
Of the 2 subjects in Protocol Nos. C/I96-352 who discontinued because of infusion reaction, one had 
mild flushing and severe wheezing immediately after the first CAELYX dose and the other had severe 
skin flushing also after the first dose. 
A total of 100 solid-tumour subjects (100/929, 11%) experienced an infusion reaction following the 
first CAELYX dose.  These reactions led to discontinuation in 19/929 subjects. 
20/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of efficacy in first line treatment. 
The  population in study I97-328 appeared representative for patients with advanced  breast cancer at 
the time of first-line chemotherapy. The outcome with respect to PFS appeared very similar between 
treatment  arms  and  the  non-inferiority  criterion  set  out  in  the  protocol  that  the  lower  bound  of  the 
confidence  interval  should  be  above  0.80,  was  met.  Several  concerns  were  identified  relating  to  the 
design and conduct of the study that it was considered might affect the interpretation of study data.   
The  study  was  not  powered  to  compare  survival  between  the  two  treatments.  However,  the  median 
overall survival was 21 months for those who received Caelyx and 22 months for those who received 
conventional doxorubicin (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.74- 1.19). Although acceptance limits were not defined 
in  the  protocol,  the  95%  CI  reflects  at  worst  a  possible  loss  of  26%  (HR  0.74)  corresponding  to  a 
possible loss in median survival of about 6 months (i.e. 22-6 = 16 months) or at best a possible gain of 
19% (HR 1.19)  corresponding to  a  gain in  median  survival  of about  4  months (22+4 =  26  months). 
This  range  of  overall  survival  (16-26  months)  is  consistent  with  that  seen  for  anthracycline-based 
therapy in first-line treatment of metastatic disease.  
The  high  discontinuation  rate  prior  to  disease  progression,  and  the  imbalance  in  the  rate  of  such 
withdrawals  between  the  two  groups  was  a  concern  in  the  assessment  of  non-inferiority.  The 
imbalance was mainly caused by a higher proportion of withdrawals due to “investigator discretion” in 
the  conventional  doxorubicin  group.  Withdrawal  due  to  “investigator  discretion”  in  the  doxorubicin 
arm  “typically  represented”  (study  report)  patients  approaching  a  cumulative  anthracycline  dose  of 
550  mg/m2.  “Cardiac  toxicity”  in  a  wide  sense  was,  thus,  a  major  cause  for  discontinuation  in  the 
doxorubicin arm. 
Overall it appeared that in this head-to-head comparison with conventional doxorubicin and on a mg 
for mg level, the outcome in terms of cardiotoxicity is favourable for Caelyx, with the caveat that the 
clinical  relevance  of  MUGA  scan  deterioration  may  be  disputed.  The  differences  between  treatment 
arms in withdrawal rates due to “cardiac toxicity” and other adverse events are prominent. 
The following concerns were raised: 
- 
Study  I97-328  was  designed  as  a  non-inferiority  study  in  terms  of  progression-free  survival 
compared with conventional doxorubicin.  Due to the following concerns, all considered to be 
of importance in the assessment of non-inferiority results, the study is considered inconclusive. 
The non-inferiority margin has not been justified. 
There was no external, treatment-blinded assessment of time to progression. 
The three-month interval between scheduled imaging is regarded as too long.  
The  eligibility  of  patients  administered  adjuvant  anthracyclines  will  affect  the  possibility  to 
optimally administer conventional doxorubicin.  
The  study  population  is  considered  representative,  but  also  heterogeneous  with  respect  to 
prognostic factors.  
Only 28% of the doxorubicin and 43% of the Caelyx patients discontinued due to progressive 
disease 
Data  on  number  of  censored  patients  prior  to  documented  tumour  progression  should  be 
presented 
In patients withdrawn prior to progression, data on next-line therapy should be provided 
There  were  more  patients  in  the  doxorubicin  treatment  group  than  in  the  Caelyx  group  who 
were  censored  prior  to  disease  progression,  which  might  affect  the  assessment  of  non-
inferiority. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
These points were discussed with the MAH during an oral explanation: 
Discussion of efficacy in the treatment of patients who have failed taxane containing regimen 
In  study  C/I96-352,  the  proportion  of  responders  was  considered  too  small  and  the  duration  of 
Progression  Free  Survival  too  short  to  be  of  clinical  value,  bearing  in  mind  the  high  frequency  and 
severity of PPE and also the frequency of cardiotoxicity. The rationale of including a high proportion 
of patients whose disease had progressed despite the use of anthracycline containing regimens in study 
C/I96-352  was  questioned  since  in  clinical  practice  further  use  of  an  anthracycline  would  not  be 
considered in this situation. With regard to this, in relation to cardiac safety, it was not considered that 
a beneficial effect on cardiac safety has been established for cumulative anthracycline doses in excess 
21/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of 450mg/m2 in this study since 14/150 Caelyx treated patients developed cardiotoxicity at cumulative 
doses less than this figure.   
The  results  of  the  single  study  C/I196-352  conducted  in  heavily  pretreated  patients  which  failed  to 
demonstrate the superiority of Caelyx were considered insufficient to support the indication for Caelyx 
in  patients  who  have  failed  previous  treatments.  In  conclusion,  the  risk-benefit  assessment  for  the 
indication for the patients who have failed a taxane- containing regimen has not been demonstrated.  
Subsequently the MAH withdrew this proposed indication. 
Discussion of Safety  
With regard to safety, quality of life was considered to be a primary consideration. In relation to this, it 
was  considered  that  the  relative  risk-benefit  of  Caelyx  might  not  be  favourable  compared  to 
conventional formulations of doxorubicin the proposed first line indication for the following reasons: 
(i)The  observation  from  the  “Quality  of  Life”  data  from  study  I97-328  showed  that  conventional 
doxorubicin is superior to Caelyx. (ii) The adverse effects which occurred in association with Caelyx, 
particularly  the  high  frequency  and  severity  of  palmar-plantar  erythrodysesthesia  (PPE),  were 
considered to be more burdensome for patients’ quality of life than the adverse effects which occurred 
in  association  with  conventional  doxorubicin.  However,  it  was  conceded  that  PPE  was  not  life-
threatening and was reversible.  
These  points  were  extensively  discussed  with  the  MAH  during  the  Oral  Explanation.  It  was  agreed 
that clear instructions on the prevention and minimisation of PPE should be included in the SPC and 
Package Leaflet.  
In  relation  to  cardiotoxicity  concern  was  expressed  regarding  the  potential  for  Caelyx  to  cause 
cardiotoxicity at high cumulative doses.  Since no data nor scientific literature exist to show enhanced 
efficacy for Caelyx at high cumulative doses  compared to conventional doxorubicin formulations, it 
was  agreed  that  the  proposed  SmPC  should  continue  to  recommend  evaluation  of  LV  function  for 
every Caelyx administration in excess of 450mg/m2.  
It  was  concluded    that  Caelyx  should  be  indicated  as  monotherapy  for  the  first  line  treatment  of 
metastatic breast cancer in those patients at increased cardiac risk. It was considereed that it presents a 
more  favourable  profile  in  terms  of  cardiotoxicity  as  compared  to  conventional  formulations  of 
doxorubicin. 
Furthermore,  the  SPC  was  amended  to  clearly  specify  severity  and  duration  of  the  main  adverse 
events: alopecia, nausea/vomiting, neutropenia, PPE, mucositis and stomatitis.  
By granting the above indication it was considered that physicians can have the option to use either 
Caelyx  or  conventional  doxorubicin,  with  their  differing  adverse  event  profiles  on  the  basis  of 
individual patient choice. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall,  the  efficacy  outcome  with  respect  to  PFS  appeared  very  similar  between  Caelyx  and 
conventional doxorubicin and the non-inferiority criterion set out in the study protocol was met, but a 
number of methodological points did not allow a more definite conclusion to be made. Furthermore, 
the outcome in terms of cardiotoxicity is clearly favourable for Caelyx. 
The  CPMP,  based  on  the  review  of  data  on  safety  and  efficacy,  considered  by  consensus  that  the 
benefit  /  risk  ratio  of  Caelyx  in  the  indication:  “As  monotherapy  for  patients  with  metastatic  breast 
cancer,  where  there  is  an  increased  cardiac  risk.”  is  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the indication. 
22/22 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
