ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated 
liposomal formulation. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is doxorubicin hydrochloride encapsulated in liposomes with 
surface-bound methoxypolyethylene glycol (MPEG). This process is known as pegylation and protects 
liposomes from detection by the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS), which increases blood 
circulation time. 
Excipients with known effect 
Contains fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (from soyabean) – see section 4.3. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
The dispersion is sterile, translucent and red. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is indicated: 
- 
- 
- 
As monotherapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, where there is an increased cardiac 
risk. 
For treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in women who have failed a first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy regimen. 
In combination with bortezomib for the treatment of progressive multiple myeloma in patients 
who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
for bone marrow transplant. 
For treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) in patients with low CD4 counts 
(< 200 CD4 lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive mucocutaneous or visceral disease. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal may be used as first-line systemic chemotherapy, or as second line 
chemotherapy in AIDS-KS patients with disease that has progressed with, or in patients intolerant to, 
prior combination systemic chemotherapy comprising at least two of the following agents: a vinca 
alkaloid, bleomycin and standard doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). 
- 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified 
oncologist specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal exhibits unique pharmacokinetic properties and must not be used 
interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Breast cancer/Ovarian cancer 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is administered intravenously at a dose of 50 mg/m2 once every 4 weeks 
for as long as the disease does not progress and the patient continues to tolerate treatment. 
Multiple myeloma 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is administered at 30 mg/m² on day 4 of the bortezomib 3 week regimen 
as a 1 hour infusion administered immediately after the bortezomib infusion. The bortezomib regimen 
consists of 1.3 mg/m² on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 every 3 weeks. The dose should be repeated as long as 
patients respond satisfactorily and tolerate treatment. Day 4 dosing of both medicinal products may be 
delayed up to 48 hours as medically necessary. Doses of bortezomib should be at least 72 hours apart. 
AIDS-related KS 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is administered intravenously at 20 mg/m2 every two-to-three weeks. 
Avoid intervals shorter than 10 days as medicinal product accumulation and increased toxicity cannot 
be ruled out. Treatment of patients for two-to-three months is recommended to achieve a therapeutic 
response. Continue treatment as needed to maintain a therapeutic response. 
For all patients 
If the patient experiences early symptoms or signs of infusion reaction (see sections 4.4 and 4.8), 
immediately discontinue the infusion, give appropriate premedications (antihistamine and/or short 
acting corticosteroid) and restart at a slower rate. 
Guidelines for Caelyx pegylated liposomal dose modification 
To manage adverse events such as palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE), stomatitis or 
haematological toxicity, the dose may be reduced or delayed. Guidelines for Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal dose modification secondary to these adverse effects are provided in the tables below. The 
toxicity grading in these tables is based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria 
(NCI-CTC). 
The tables for PPE (Table 1) and stomatitis (Table 2) provide the schedule followed for dose 
modification in clinical trials in the treatment of breast or ovarian cancer (modification of the 
recommended 4 week treatment cycle): if these toxicities occur in patients with AIDS-related KS, the 
recommended 2 to 3 week treatment cycle can be modified in a similar manner. 
The table for haematological toxicity (Table 3) provides the schedule followed for dose modification 
in clinical trials in the treatment of patients with breast or ovarian cancer only. Dose modification in 
patients with AIDS-KS is provided following Table 4. 
Table 1. 
Palmar–Plantar erythrodysesthesia 
Toxicity grade at 
current assessment 
Grade 1 
(mild erythema, 
swelling, or 
desquamation not 
interfering with daily 
activities) 
Week after prior Caelyx pegylated liposomal dose 
Week 5 
Week 6 
Week 4 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 skin 
toxicity, in which case 
wait an additional 
week 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 skin 
toxicity, in which case 
wait an additional 
week 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 
4 week interval 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 2 
(erythema, 
desquamation, or 
swelling interfering 
with, but not precluding 
normal physical 
activities; small blisters 
or ulcerations less than 
2 cm in diameter) 
Grade 3 
(blistering, ulceration, 
or swelling interfering 
with walking or normal 
daily activities; cannot 
wear regular clothing) 
Grade 4 
(diffuse or local process 
causing infectious 
complications, or a 
bedridden state or 
hospitalisation) 
Table 2. 
Stomatitis 
Toxicity grade at 
current assessment 
Grade 1 
(painless ulcers, 
erythema, or mild 
soreness) 
Grade 2 
(painful erythema, 
oedema, or ulcers, but 
can eat) 
Grade 3 
(painful erythema, 
edema, or ulcers, but 
cannot eat) 
Grade 4 
(requires parenteral or 
enteral support) 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 
4 week interval 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Week after prior Caelyx pegylated liposomal dose 
Week 5 
Week 4 
Week 6 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 stomatitis 
in which case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 stomatitis 
in which case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 
4 week interval or 
withdraw patient per 
physician’s assessment 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 
4 week interval or 
withdraw patient per 
physician’s assessment 
Withdraw patient 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Table 3.  Haematological toxicity (ANC or platelets) – Management of patients with breast or 
ovarian cancer 
GRADE 
Grade 1 
ANC 
1,500 – 1,900 
PLATELETS 
75,000 – 150,000 
MODIFICATION 
Resume treatment with no dose 
reduction. 
Grade 2 
1,000 – < 1,500 
50,000 – < 75,000  Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets 
≥ 75,000; redose with no dose 
reduction. 
Grade 3 
500 – < 1,000 
25,000 – < 50,000  Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets 
≥ 75,000; redose with no dose 
reduction. 
4 
 
 
 
Grade 4 
< 500 
< 25,000 
Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets 
≥ 75,000; decrease dose by 25% or 
continue full dose with growth factor 
support. 
For multiple myeloma patients treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal in combination with 
bortezomib who experience PPE or stomatitis, the Caelyx pegylated liposomal dose should be 
modified as described in Table 1 and 2 above respectively. Table 4, below provides the schedule 
followed for other dose modifications in the clinical trial in the treatment of patients with multiple 
myeloma receiving Caelyx pegylated liposomal and bortezomib combination therapy. For more 
detailed information on bortezomib dosing and dosage adjustments, see the SPC for bortezomib. 
Table 4.  Dosage adjustments for Caelyx pegylated liposomal + bortezomib combination 
therapy - patients with multiple myeloma 
Patient status 
Fever ≥ 38○C and ANC 
< 1,000/mm3 
On any day of medicine 
administration after day 1 of 
each cycle: 
Platelet count < 25,000/mm3 
Haemoglobin < 8 g/dl 
ANC < 500/mm3 
Grade 3 or 4 non-haematologic 
medicine related toxicity 
Neuropathic pain or peripheral 
neuropathy 
* 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Do not dose this cycle if before 
day 4; if after day 4, reduce 
next dose by 25%. 
Do not dose this cycle if before 
day 4; if after day 4 reduce next 
dose by 25% in the following 
cycles if bortezomib is reduced 
for haematologic toxicity.* 
Bortezomib 
Reduce next dose by 25%. 
Do not dose; if 2 or more doses 
are not given in a cycle, reduce 
dose by 25% in following 
cycles. 
Do not dose until recovered to 
grade < 2 and reduce dose by 
25% for all subsequent doses. 
No dosage adjustments. 
Do not dose until recovered to 
grade < 2 and reduce dose by 
25% for all subsequent doses. 
See the SPC for bortezomib. 
for more information on bortezomib dosing and dosage adjustment, see the SPC for bortezomib 
For AIDS-KS patients treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal, haematological toxicity may require 
dose reduction or suspension or delay of therapy. Temporarily suspend Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
treatment in patients when the ANC count is < 1,000/mm3 and/or the platelet count is < 50,000/mm3. 
G-CSF (or GM-CSF) may be given as concomitant therapy to support the blood count when the ANC 
count is < 1,000/mm3 in subsequent cycles. 
Hepatic Impairment 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal pharmacokinetics determined in a small number of patients with elevated 
total bilirubin levels do not differ from patients with normal total bilirubin; however, until further 
experience is gained, the Caelyx pegylated liposomal dosage in patients with impaired hepatic 
function should be reduced based on the experience from the breast and ovarian clinical trial programs 
as follows: at initiation of therapy, if the bilirubin is between 1.2-3.0 mg/dl, the first dose is reduced by 
25%. If the bilirubin is > 3.0 mg/dl, the first dose is reduced by 50%. If the patient tolerates the first 
dose without an increase in serum bilirubin or liver enzymes, the dose for cycle 2 can be increased to 
the next dose level, i.e., if reduced by 25% for the first dose, increase to full dose for cycle 2; if 
reduced by 50% for the first dose, increase to 75% of full dose for cycle 2. The dosage can be 
increased to full dose for subsequent cycles if tolerated. Caelyx pegylated liposomal can be 
administered to patients with liver metastases with concurrent elevation of bilirubin and liver enzymes 
up to 4 x the upper limit of the normal range. Prior to Caelyx pegylated liposomal administration, 
evaluate hepatic function using conventional clinical laboratory tests such as ALT/AST, alkaline 
phosphatase, and bilirubin. 
Renal Impairment 
As doxorubicin is metabolised by the liver and excreted in the bile, dose modification should not be 
required. Population pharmacokinetic data (in the range of creatinine clearance tested of 
30-156 ml/min) demonstrate that Caelyx pegylated liposomal clearance is not influenced by renal 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
function. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with creatinine clearance of less than 
30 ml/min. 
AIDS-related KS patients with splenectomy 
As there is no experience with Caelyx pegylated liposomal in patients who have had splenectomy, 
treatment with Caelyx pegylated liposomal is not recommended. 
Paediatric population 
The experience in children is limited. Caelyx pegylated liposomal is not recommended in patients 
below 18 years of age. 
Elderly 
Population based analysis demonstrates that age across the range tested (21–75 years) does not 
significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
Method of administration 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is administered as an intravenous infusion. For further instructions on 
preparation and special precautions for handling (see section 6.6). 
Do not administer Caelyx pegylated liposomal as a bolus injection or undiluted dispersion. It is 
recommended that the Caelyx pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the side port of 
an intravenous infusion of 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose to achieve further dilution and minimise the risk of 
thrombosis and extravasation. The infusion may be given through a peripheral vein. Do not use with 
in-line filters. Caelyx pegylated liposomal must not be given by the intramuscular or subcutaneous 
route (see section 6.6). 
For doses < 90 mg: dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 250 ml 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for 
infusion. 
For doses ≥ 90 mg: dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 500 ml 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for 
infusion. 
Breast cancer/Ovarian cancer/Multiple myeloma 
To minimise the risk of infusion reactions, the initial dose is administered at a rate no greater than 
1 mg/minute. If no infusion reaction is observed, subsequent Caelyx pegylated liposomal infusions 
may be administered over a 60-minute period. 
In those patients who experience an infusion reaction, the method of infusion should be modified as 
follows: 
5% of the total dose should be infused slowly over the first 15 minutes. If tolerated without reaction, 
the infusion rate may then be doubled for the next 15 minutes. If tolerated, the infusion may then be 
completed over the next hour for a total infusion time of 90 minutes. 
AIDS-related KS 
The dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal is diluted in 250 ml 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for 
infusion and administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, peanut or soya, or to any of the excipients listed in section 
6.1. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal must not be used to treat AIDS-KS that may be treated effectively with 
local therapy or systemic alfa-interferon. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Given the difference in pharmacokinetic profiles and dosing schedules, Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
should not be used interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
Cardiac toxicity 
It is recommended that all patients receiving Caelyx pegylated liposomal routinely undergo frequent 
ECG monitoring. Transient ECG changes such as T-wave flattening, S-T segment depression and 
benign arrhythmias are not considered mandatory indications for the suspension of Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal therapy. However, reduction of the QRS complex is considered more indicative of cardiac 
toxicity. If this change occurs, the most definitive test for anthracycline myocardial injury, i.e., 
endomyocardial biopsy, must be considered. 
More specific methods for the evaluation and monitoring of cardiac functions as compared to ECG are 
a measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction by echocardiography or preferably by Multigated 
Angiography (MUGA). These methods must be applied routinely before the initiation of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal therapy and repeated periodically during treatment. The evaluation of left 
ventricular function is considered to be mandatory before each additional administration of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal that exceeds a lifetime cumulative anthracycline dose of 450 mg/m2. 
The evaluation tests and methods mentioned above concerning the monitoring of cardiac performance 
during anthracycline therapy are to be employed in the following order: ECG monitoring, 
measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction, endomyocardial biopsy. If a test result indicates 
possible cardiac injury associated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal therapy, the benefit of continued 
therapy must be carefully weighed against the risk of myocardial injury. 
In patients with cardiac disease requiring treatment, administer Caelyx pegylated liposomal only when 
the benefit outweighs the risk to the patient. 
Exercise caution in patients with impaired cardiac function who receive Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
Whenever cardiomyopathy is suspected, i.e., the left ventricular ejection fraction has substantially 
decreased relative to pre-treatment values and/or left ventricular ejection fraction is lower than a 
prognostically relevant value (e.g., < 45%), endomyocardial biopsy may be considered and the benefit 
of continued therapy must be carefully evaluated against the risk of developing irreversible cardiac 
damage. 
Congestive heart failure due to cardiomyopathy may occur suddenly, without prior ECG changes and 
may also be encountered several weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Caution must be observed in patients who have received other anthracyclines. The total dose of 
doxorubicin hydrochloride must also take into account any previous (or concomitant) therapy with 
cardiotoxic compounds such as other anthracyclines/anthraquinones or e.g., 5-fluorouracil. Cardiac 
toxicity also may occur at cumulative anthracycline doses lower than 450 mg/m2 in patients with prior 
mediastinal irradiation or in those receiving concurrent cyclophosphamide therapy. 
The cardiac safety profile for the dosing schedule recommended for both breast and ovarian cancer 
(50 mg/m2) is similar to the 20 mg/m2 profile in patients with AIDS-KS (see section 4.8). 
Myelosuppression 
Many patients treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal have baseline myelosuppression due to such 
factors as their pre-existing HIV disease or numerous concomitant or previous medications, or 
tumours involving bone marrow. In the pivotal trial in patients with ovarian cancer treated at a dose of 
50 mg/m2, myelosuppression was generally mild to moderate, reversible, and was not associated with 
episodes of neutropaenic infection or sepsis. Moreover, in a controlled clinical trial of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal vs. topotecan, the incidence of treatment related sepsis was substantially less in 
the Caelyx pegylated liposomal-treated ovarian cancer patients as compared to the topotecan treatment 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group. A similar low incidence of myelosuppression was seen in patients with metastatic breast cancer 
receiving Caelyx pegylated liposomal in a first-line clinical trial. In contrast to the experience in 
patients with breast cancer or ovarian cancer, myelosuppression appears to be the dose-limiting 
adverse event in patients with AIDS-KS (see section 4.8). Because of the potential for bone marrow 
suppression, periodic blood counts must be performed frequently during the course of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal therapy, and at a minimum, prior to each dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
Persistent severe myelosuppression, may result in superinfection or haemorrhage. 
In controlled clinical studies in patients with AIDS-KS against a bleomycin/vincristine regimen, 
opportunistic infections were apparently more frequent during treatment with Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal. Patients and doctors must be aware of this higher incidence and take action as appropriate. 
Secondary haematological malignancies 
As with other DNA-damaging antineoplastic agents, secondary acute myeloid leukemias and 
myelodysplasias have been reported in patients having received combined treatment with doxorubicin. 
Therefore, any patient treated with doxorubicin should be kept under haematological supervision. 
Secondary oral neoplasms 
Very rare cases of secondary oral cancer have been reported in patients with long-term (more than one 
year) exposure to Caelyx pegylated liposomal or those receiving a cumulative Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal dose greater than 720 mg/m2. Cases of secondary oral cancer were diagnosed both, during 
treatment with Caelyx pegylated liposomal, and up to 6 years after the last dose. Patients should be 
examined at regular intervals for the presence of oral ulceration or any oral discomfort that may be 
indicative of secondary oral cancer. 
Infusion-associated reactions 
Serious and sometimes life-threatening infusion reactions, which are characterised by allergic-like or 
anaphylactoid-like reactions, with symptoms including asthma, flushing, urticarial rash, chest pain, 
fever, hypertension, tachycardia, pruritus, sweating, shortness of breath, facial oedema, chills, back 
pain, tightness in the chest and throat and/or hypotension may occur within minutes of starting the 
infusion of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. Very rarely, convulsions also have been observed in relation 
to infusion reactions. Temporarily stopping the infusion usually resolves these symptoms without 
further therapy. However, medications to treat these symptoms (e.g., antihistamines, corticosteroids, 
adrenaline, and anticonvulsants), as well as emergency equipment should be available for immediate 
use. In most patients treatment can be resumed after all symptoms have resolved, without recurrence. 
Infusion reactions rarely recur after the first treatment cycle. To minimise the risk of infusion 
reactions, the initial dose should be administered at a rate no greater than 1 mg/minute (see section 
4.2). 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPE) 
PPE is characterised by painful, macular reddening skin eruptions. In patients experiencing this event, 
it is generally seen after two or three cycles of treatment. Improvement usually occurs in 1-2 weeks, 
and in some cases, may take up to 4 weeks or longer for complete resolution. Pyridoxine at a dose of 
50-150 mg per day and corticosteroids have been used for the prophylaxis and treatment of PPE, 
however, these therapies have not been evaluated in phase III trials. Other strategies to prevent and 
treat PPE include keeping hands and feet cool, by exposing them to cool water (soaks, baths, or 
swimming), avoiding excessive heat/hot water and keeping them unrestricted (no socks, gloves, or 
shoes that are tight fitting). PPE appears to be primarily related to the dose schedule and can be 
reduced by extending the dose interval 1- 2 weeks (see section 4.2). However, this reaction can be 
severe and debilitating in some patients and may require discontinuation of treatment (see section 4.8). 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD), which may have an acute onset, has been observed in patients receiving 
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, including fatal cases (see section 4.8). If patients experience 
worsening of respiratory symptoms such as dyspnoea, dry cough, and fever, Caelyx pegylated 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liposomal should be interrupted and the patient should be promptly investigated. If ILD is confirmed, 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal should be discontinued and the patient treated appropriately. 
Extravasation 
Although local necrosis following extravasation has been reported very rarely, Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal is considered to be an irritant. Animal studies indicate that administration of doxorubicin 
hydrochloride as a liposomal formulation reduces the potential for extravasation injury. If any signs or 
symptoms of extravasation occur (e.g., stinging, erythema) terminate the infusion immediately and 
restart in another vein. The application of ice over the site of extravasation for approximately 30 
minutes may be helpful in alleviating the local reaction. Caelyx pegylated liposomal must not be given 
by the intramuscular or subcutaneous route.  
Diabetic patients 
Please note that each vial of Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains sucrose and the dose is administered 
in 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for infusion. 
Excipients 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose and is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
For common adverse events which required dose modification or discontinuation see section 4.8. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal medicinal product interaction studies have been performed with Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal, although phase II combination trials with conventional chemotherapy agents have been 
conducted in patients with gynaecological malignancies. Exercise caution in the concomitant use of 
medicinal products known to interact with standard doxorubicin hydrochloride. Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal, like other doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations, may potentiate the toxicity of other 
anti-cancer therapies. During clinical trials in patients with solid tumours (including breast and ovarian 
cancer) who have received concomitant cyclophosphamide or taxanes, no new additive toxicities were 
noted. In patients with AIDS, exacerbation of cyclophosphamide-induced haemorrhagic cystitis and 
enhancement of the hepatotoxicity of 6-mercaptopurine have been reported with standard doxorubicin 
hydrochloride. Caution must be exercised when giving any other cytotoxic agents, especially 
myelotoxic agents, at the same time. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Doxorubicin hydrochloride is suspected to cause serious birth defects when administered during 
pregnancy. Therefore, Caelyx pegylated liposomal should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. 
Women of child-bearing potential/contraception in men and women 
Due to the genotoxic potential of  Doxorubicin hydrochloride (see section 5.3), women of 
child-bearing potential should use effective contraceptive measures while being treated with Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal and for 8 months following completion of treatment. 
Men are recommended to use effective contraceptive measures and to not father a child while 
receiving Caelyx pegylated liposomal and for 6 months following completion of treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether Caelyx pegylated liposomal is excreted in human milk. Because many 
medicinal products, including anthracyclines, are excreted in human milk, and because of the potential 
for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, therefore mothers must discontinue nursing prior to 
beginning Caelyx pegylated liposomal treatment. Health experts recommend that HIV infected women 
do not breast-feed their infants under any circumstances in order to avoid transmission of HIV. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
The effect of doxorubicin hydrochloride on human fertility has not been evaluated (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
However, in clinical studies to date, dizziness and somnolence were associated infrequently (< 5%) 
with the administration of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. Patients who suffer from these effects must 
avoid driving and operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 20%) were neutropaenia, nausea, leukopaenia, anaemia, and 
fatigue. 
Severe adverse reactions (Grade 3/4 adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2% of patients) were 
neutropaenia, PPE, leukopaenia, lymphopaenia, anaemia, thrombocytopaenia, stomatitis, fatigue, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, pyrexia, dyspnoea, and pneumonia.  Less frequently reported severe 
adverse reactions included Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, abdominal pain, cytomegalovirus 
infection including cytomegalovirus chorioretinitis, asthenia, cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, cardiac 
failure congestive, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, venous thrombosis, anaphylactic reaction, 
anaphylactoid reaction, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 5 summarises the adverse drug reactions that occurred in patients receiving Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal in 4,231 patients for the treatment of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, multiple myeloma, and 
AIDS-related KS. Post-marketing adverse reactions are also included, as indicated by “b”. Frequencies 
are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), 
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, where relevant, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 5: 
System Organ 
Class 
Adverse reactions in patients treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Frequency All Grades 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Infections and 
infestations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Sepsis 
Pneumonia 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia 
Cytomegalovirus infection including 
cytomegalovirus chorioretinitis  
Mycobacterium avium complex infection 
Candidiasis 
Herpes zoster 
Urinary tract infection 
Infection 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Oral candidiasis 
Folliculitis 
Pharyngitis 
Nasopharyngitis 
Herpes simplex 
Fungal infection 
Opportunistic infection (including Aspergillus, 
Histoplasma, Isospora, Legionella, 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac 
disordersa 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Microsporidium, Salmonella, Staphylococcus, 
Toxoplasma, Tuberculosis)a 
Acute myeloid leukaemiab 
Myelodysplastic syndromeb 
Oral neoplasmb 
Leukopaenia 
Neutropaenia 
Lymphopaenia 
Anaemia (including hypochromic) 
Thrombocytopaenia 
Febrile neutropaenia 
Pancytopaenia 
Thrombocytosis 
Bone marrow failure 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Anaphylactoid reaction 
Decreased appetite 
Cachexia 
Dehydration 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Hypocalcaemia  
Hyperkalaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Confusional state 
Anxiety 
Depression 
Insomnia 
Neuropathy peripheral 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Neuralgia 
Paraesthesia 
Hypoaesthesia 
Dysgeusia 
Headache 
Lethargy 
Dizziness 
Polyneuropathy 
Convulsion 
Syncope 
Dysaesthesia  
Somnolence 
Conjunctivitis 
Vision blurred 
Lacrimation increased 
Retinitis 
Tachycardia 
Palpitations 
Cardiac arrest 
Cardiac failure 
11 
Rare 
Vascular 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not Known 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Common 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Cardiac failure congestive 
Cardiomyopathy 
Cardiotoxicity 
Ventricular arrhythmia 
Bundle branch block right 
Conduction disorder 
Atrioventricular block 
Cyanosis 
Hypertension 
Hypotension  
Flushing 
Pulmonary embolism 
Infusion site necrosis (including soft tissue 
necrosis and skin necrosis) 
Phlebitis 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Thrombophlebitis 
Venous thrombosis 
Vasodilatation 
Dyspnoea 
Dyspnoea exertional 
Epistaxis 
Cough  
Asthma 
Chest discomfort 
Throat tightness 
Interstitial lung disease 
Stomatitis 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Gastritis 
Aphthous stomatitis 
Mouth ulceration 
Dyspepsia 
Dysphagia 
Oesophagitis 
Abdominal pain 
Abdominal pain upper 
Oral pain 
Dry mouth 
Flatulence 
Gingivitis 
Glossitis 
Lip ulceration 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndromea 
Rash (including erythematous, maculo-papular, 
and papular) 
Alopecia 
Skin exfoliation 
Blister 
Dry skin 
Erythema 
12 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Reproductive 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Investigations  
Pruritus 
Hyperhidrosis 
Skin hyperpigmentation 
Dermatitis 
Dermatitis exfoliative 
Acne 
Skin ulcer 
Dermatitis allergic 
Urticaria 
Skin discolouration 
Petechiae 
Pigmentation disorder 
Nail disorder 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Erythema multiforme 
Dermatitis bullous 
Lichenoid keratosis 
Stevens-Johnson syndromeb 
Musculoskeletal pain (including musculoskeletal 
chest pain, back pain, pain in extremity) 
Muscle spasms 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Bone pain 
Muscular weakness 
Dysuria 
Breast pain 
Vaginal infection 
Scrotal erythema 
Pyrexia  
Fatigue 
Infusion-related reaction 
Pain 
Chest pain  
Influenza-like illness 
Chills 
Mucosal inflammation 
Asthenia 
Malaise 
Oedema 
Oedema peripheral 
Administration site extravasation 
Injection site reaction 
Face oedema 
Hyperthermia 
Mucous membrane disorder 
Weight decreased 
Ejection fraction decreased 
Liver function test abnormal (including Blood 
bilirubin increased, Alanine aminotransferase 
increased and Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased) 
13 
Uncommon 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
a  See Description of selected adverse reactions 
b  Post-marketing adverse reaction 
Blood creatinine increased 
Radiation recall phenomenona 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
The most common undesirable effect reported in breast/ovarian clinical trials was palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia (PPE). The overall incidence of PPE reported was 41.3% and 51.1% in the ovarian 
and breast clinical trials, respectively. These effects were mostly mild, with severe (grade 3) cases 
reported in 16.3% and 19.6% of patients. The reported incidence of life-threatening (grade 4) cases 
was < 1%. PPE infrequently resulted in permanent treatment discontinuation (1.9% and 10.8%). PPE 
was reported in 16% of multiple myeloma patients treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus 
bortezomib combination therapy. Grade 3 PPE was reported in 5% of patients. No grade 4 PPE was 
reported. The rate of PPE was substantially lower in the AIDS-KS population (1.3% all grade, 0.4% 
grade 3 PPE, no grade 4 PPE).  See section 4.4. 
Opportunistic infections 
Respiratory undesirable effects commonly occurred in clinical studies of Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
and may be related to opportunistic infections (OI’s) in the AIDS population. Opportunistic infections 
are observed in KS patients after administration with Caelyx pegylated liposomal, and are frequently 
observed in patients with HIV induced immunodeficiency. The most frequently observed OI’s in 
clinical studies were candidiasis, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, 
and mycobacterium avium complex. 
Cardiac toxicity 
An increased incidence of congestive heart failure is associated with doxorubicin therapy at 
cumulative lifetime doses > 450 mg/m2 or at lower doses for patients with cardiac risk factors. 
Endomyocardial biopsies on nine of ten AIDS-KS patients receiving cumulative doses of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal greater than 460 mg/m2 indicate no evidence of anthracycline-induced 
cardiomyopathy. The recommended dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal for AIDS-KS patients is 
20 mg/m2 every two-to-three weeks. The cumulative dose at which cardiotoxicity would become a 
concern for these AIDS-KS patients (> 400 mg/m2) would require more than 20 courses of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal therapy over 40 to 60 weeks. 
In addition, endomyocardial biopsies were performed in 8 solid tumour patients with cumulative 
anthracycline doses of 509 mg/m2–1,680 mg/m2. The range of Billingham cardiotoxicity scores was 
grades 0-1.5. These grading scores are consistent with no or mild cardiac toxicity. 
In the pivotal phase III trial versus doxorubicin, 58/509 (11.4%) randomised subjects (10 treated with 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal at a dose of 50 mg/m2/every 4 weeks versus 48 treated with doxorubicin 
at a dose of 60 mg/m2/every 3 weeks) met the protocol-defined criteria for cardiac toxicity during 
treatment and/or follow-up. Cardiac toxicity was defined as a decrease of 20 points or greater from 
baseline if the resting LVEF remained in the normal range or a decrease of 10 points or greater if the 
LVEF became abnormal (less than the lower limit for normal). None of the 10 Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal subjects who had cardiac toxicity by LVEF criteria developed signs and symptoms of CHF. 
In contrast, 10 of 48 doxorubicin subjects who had cardiac toxicity by LVEF criteria also developed 
signs and symptoms of CHF. 
In patients with solid tumours, including a subset of patients with breast and ovarian cancers, treated at 
a dose of 50 mg/m2/cycle with lifetime cumulative anthracycline doses up to 1,532 mg/m2, the 
incidence of clinically significant cardiac dysfunction was low. Of the 418 patients treated with 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 50 mg/m2/cycle, and having a baseline measurement of left ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) and at least one follow-up measurement assessed by MUGA scan, 
88 patients had a cumulative anthracycline dose of > 400 mg/m2, an exposure level associated with an 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased risk of cardiovascular toxicity with conventional doxorubicin. Only 13 of these 88 patients 
(15%) had at least one clinically significant change in their LVEF, defined as an LVEF value less than 
45% or a decrease of at least 20 points from baseline. Furthermore, only 1 patient (cumulative 
anthracycline dose of 944 mg/m2), discontinued study treatment because of clinical symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. 
Radiation recall phenomenon 
Recall of skin reaction due to prior radiotherapy has occurred uncommonly with Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal administration. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Acute overdosing with doxorubicin hydrochloride worsens the toxic effects of mucositis, leukopaenia 
and thrombocytopaenia. Treatment of acute overdose of the severely myelosuppressed patient consists 
of hospitalisation, antibiotics, platelet and granulocyte transfusions and symptomatic treatment of 
mucositis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cytotoxic agents (anthracyclines and related substances), ATC code: 
L01DB01. 
Mechanism of action 
The active ingredient of Caelyx pegylated liposomal is doxorubicin hydrochloride, a cytotoxic 
anthracycline antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. The exact mechanism of 
the antitumour activity of doxorubicin is not known. It is generally believed that inhibition of DNA, 
RNA and protein synthesis is responsible for the majority of the cytotoxic effects. This is probably the 
result of intercalation of the anthracycline between adjacent base pairs of the DNA double helix thus 
preventing their unwinding for replication. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A phase III randomised study of Caelyx pegylated liposomal versus doxorubicin in patients with 
metastatic breast cancer was completed in 509 patients. The protocol-specified objective of 
demonstrating non-inferiority between Caelyx pegylated liposomal and doxorubicin was met, the 
hazard ratio (HR) for progression-free survival (PFS) was 1.00 (95% CI for HR=0.82-1.22). The 
treatment HR for PFS when adjusted for prognostic variables was consistent with PFS for the ITT 
population. 
The primary analysis of cardiac toxicity showed the risk of developing a cardiac event as a function of 
cumulative anthracycline dose was significantly lower with Caelyx pegylated liposomal than with 
doxorubicin (HR=3.16, p < 0.001). At cumulative doses greater than 450 mg/m2 there were no cardiac 
events with Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
A phase III comparative study of Caelyx pegylated liposomal versus topotecan in patients with 
epithelial ovarian cancer following the failure of first-line, platinum-based chemotherapy was 
completed in 474 patients. There was a benefit in overall survival (OS) for Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal-treated patients over topotecan-treated patients as indicated by a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.216 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(95% CI: 1.000; 1.478), p=0.050. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 56.3%, 34.7% and 20.2% 
respectively on Caelyx pegylated liposomal, compared to 54.0%, 23.6% and 13.2% on topotecan. 
For the sub-group of patients with platinum-sensitive disease the difference was greater: HR of 1.432 
(95% CI: 1.066; 1.923), p=0.017. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 74.1%, 51.2% and 28.4% 
respectively on Caelyx pegylated liposomal, compared to 66.2%, 31.0% and 17.5% on topotecan. 
The treatments were similar in the sub-group of patients with platinum-refractory disease: HR of 1.069 
(95% CI: 0.823; 1.387), p=0.618. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 41.5%, 21.1% and 13.8% 
respectively on Caelyx pegylated liposomal, compared to 43.2%, 17.2% and 9.5% on topotecan. 
A phase III randomised, parallel-group, open-label, multicentre study comparing the safety and 
efficacy of Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib combination therapy with bortezomib 
monotherapy in patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who 
did not progress while receiving anthracycline-based therapy, was conducted in 646 patients. There 
was a significant improvement in the primary endpoint of time to progression (TTP) for patients 
treated with combination therapy of Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib compared to patients 
treated with bortezomib monotherapy as indicated by a risk reduction (RR) of 35% (95% CI: 21-47%), 
p < 0.0001, based on 407 TTP events. The median TTP was 6.9 months for the bortezomib 
monotherapy patients compared with 8.9 months for the Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib 
combination therapy patients. A protocol-defined interim analysis (based on 249 TTP events) 
triggered early study termination for efficacy. This interim analysis showed a TTP risk reduction of 
45% (95% CI: 29-57%), p < 0.0001. The median TTP was 6.5 months for the bortezomib 
monotherapy patients compared with 9.3 months for the Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib 
combination therapy patients. These results, though not mature, constituted the protocol defined final 
analysis. The final analysis for overall survival (OS) performed after a median follow-up of 8.6 years 
showed no significant difference in OS between the two treatment arms. The median OS was 
30.8 months (95% CI; 25.2-36.5 months) for the bortezomib monotherapy patients and 33.0 months 
(95% CI; 28.9-37.1 months) for the Caelyx pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib combination therapy 
patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is a long-circulating pegylated liposomal formulation of doxorubicin 
hydrochloride. Pegylated liposomes contain surface-grafted segments of the hydrophilic polymer 
methoxypolyethylene glycol (MPEG). These linear MPEG groups extend from the liposome surface 
creating a protective coating that reduces interactions between the lipid bilayer membrane and the 
plasma components. This allows the Caelyx pegylated liposomal liposomes to circulate for prolonged 
periods in the blood stream. Pegylated liposomes are small enough (average diameter of 
approximately 100 nm) to pass intact (extravasate) through defective blood vessels supplying tumours. 
Evidence of penetration of pegylated liposomes from blood vessels and their entry and accumulation 
in tumours has been seen in mice with C-26 colon carcinoma tumours and in transgenic mice with 
KS-like lesions. The pegylated liposomes also have a low permeability lipid matrix and internal 
aqueous buffer system that combine to keep doxorubicin hydrochloride encapsulated during liposome 
residence time in circulation. 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal in humans differ significantly from those 
reported in the literature for standard doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations. At lower doses 
(10 mg/m2–20 mg/m2) Caelyx pegylated liposomal displayed linear pharmacokinetics. Over the dose 
range of 10 mg/m2–60 mg/m2 Caelyx pegylated liposomal displayed non-linear pharmacokinetics. 
Standard doxorubicin hydrochloride displays extensive tissue distribution (volume of distribution: 700 
to 1,100 l/m2) and a rapid elimination clearance (24 to 73 l/h/m2). In contrast, the pharmacokinetic 
profile of Caelyx pegylated liposomal indicates that Caelyx pegylated liposomal is confined mostly to 
the vascular fluid volume and that the clearance of doxorubicin from the blood is dependent upon the 
liposomal carrier. Doxorubicin becomes available after the liposomes are extravasated and enter the 
tissue compartment. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At equivalent doses, the plasma concentration and AUC values of Caelyx pegylated liposomal which 
represent mostly pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (containing 90% to 95% of the 
measured doxorubicin) are significantly higher than those achieved with standard doxorubicin 
hydrochloride preparations. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal should not be used interchangeably with other formulations of 
doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal was evaluated in 120 patients from 10 different 
clinical trials using the population pharmacokinetic approach. The pharmacokinetics of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal over the dose range of 10 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 was best described by a two 
compartment non-linear model with zero order input and Michaelis-Menten elimination. The mean 
intrinsic clearance of Caelyx pegylated liposomal was 0.030 l/h/m2 (range 0.008 to 0.152 l/h/m2) and 
the mean central volume of distribution was 1.93 l/m2 (range 0.96-3.85 l/m2) approximating the plasma 
volume. The apparent half-life ranged from 24-231 hours, with a mean of 73.9 hours. 
Breast cancer patients 
The pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal determined in 18 patients with breast carcinoma 
were similar to the pharmacokinetics determined in the larger population of 120 patients with various 
cancers. The mean intrinsic clearance was 0.016 l/h/m2 (range 0.008-0.027 l/h/m2), the mean central 
volume of distribution was 1.46 l/m2 (range 1.10-1.64 l/m2). The mean apparent half-life was 
71.5 hours (range 45.2-98.5 hours). 
Ovarian cancer patients 
The pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal determined in 11 patients with ovarian 
carcinoma were similar to the pharmacokinetics determined in the larger population of 120 patients 
with various cancers. The mean intrinsic clearance was 0.021 l/h/m2 (range 0.009–0.041 l/h/m2), the 
mean central volume of distribution was 1.95 l/m2 (range 1.67–2.40 l/m2). The mean apparent half-life 
was 75.0 hours (range 36.1–125 hours). 
AIDS-related KS patients 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of Caelyx pegylated liposomal were evaluated in 23 patients with KS 
who received single doses of 20 mg/m2 administered by a 30-minute infusion. The pharmacokinetic 
parameters of Caelyx pegylated liposomal (primarily representing pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 
hydrochloride and low levels of unencapsulated doxorubicin hydrochloride) observed after the 
20 mg/m2 doses are presented in Table 6. 
Table 6. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters in Caelyx pegylated liposomal-treated AIDS-KS 
patients 
Parameter 
Maximum plasma concentration* (µg/ml) 
Plasma clearance (l/h/m2) 
Volume of distribution (l/m2) 
AUC (µg/ml⋅h) 
λ1 half-life (hours) 
λ2 half-life (hours) 
*  Measured at the end of a 30-minute infusion 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Mean + standard error 
20 mg/m2 (n=23) 
8.34 ± 0.49 
0.041 ± 0.004 
2.72 ± 0.120 
590.00 ± 58.7 
5.2 ± 1.4 
55.0 ± 4.8 
In repeat dose studies conducted in animals, the toxicity profile of Caelyx pegylated liposomal appears 
very similar to that reported in humans who receive long-term infusions of standard doxorubicin 
hydrochloride. With Caelyx pegylated liposomal, the encapsulation of doxorubicin hydrochloride in 
pegylated liposomes results in these effects having a differing strength, as follows. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiotoxicity 
Studies in rabbits have shown that the cardiotoxicity of Caelyx pegylated liposomal is reduced 
compared with conventional doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations. 
Dermal toxicity 
In studies performed after the repeated administration of Caelyx pegylated liposomal to rats and dogs, 
serious dermal inflammations and ulcer formations were observed at clinically relevant dosages. In the 
study in dogs, the occurrence and severity of these lesions was reduced by lowering the dose or 
prolonging the intervals between doses. Similar dermal lesions, which are described as palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia were also observed in patients after long-term intravenous infusion (see section 
4.8). 
Anaphylactoid response 
During repeat dose toxicology studies in dogs, an acute response characterised by hypotension, pale 
mucous membranes, salivation, emesis and periods of hyperactivity followed by hypoactivity and 
lethargy was observed following administration of pegylated liposomes (placebo). A similar, but less 
severe response was also noted in dogs treated with Caelyx pegylated liposomal and standard 
doxorubicin. 
The hypotensive response was reduced in magnitude by pretreatment with antihistamines. However, 
the response was not life-threatening and the dogs recovered quickly upon discontinuation of 
treatment. 
Local toxicity 
Subcutaneous tolerance studies indicate that Caelyx pegylated liposomal, as against standard 
doxorubicin hydrochloride, causes slighter local irritation or damage to the tissue after a possible 
extravasation. 
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity 
Although no studies have been conducted with Caelyx pegylated liposomal, doxorubicin 
hydrochloride, the pharmacologically active ingredient of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, is mutagenic 
and carcinogenic. Pegylated placebo liposomes are neither mutagenic nor genotoxic. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal resulted in mild to moderate ovarian and testicular atrophy in mice after a 
single dose of 36 mg/kg. Decreased testicular weights and hypospermia were present in rats after 
repeat doses ≥ 0.25 mg/kg/day and diffuse degeneration of the seminiferous tubules and a marked 
decrease in spermatogenesis were observed in dogs after repeat doses of 1 mg/kg/day (see section 4.6). 
Nephrotoxicity 
A study has shown that Caelyx pegylated liposomal at a single intravenous dose of over twice the 
clinical dose produces renal toxicity in monkeys. Renal toxicity has been observed with even lower 
single doses of doxorubicin HCl in rats and rabbits. Since an evaluation of the post-marketing safety 
database for Caelyx pegylated liposomal in patients has not suggested a significant nephrotoxicity 
liability of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, these findings in monkeys may not have relevance to patient 
risk assessment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
α-(2-[1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero(3)phosphooxy]ethylcarbamoyl)-ω-methoxypoly(oxyethylen)-40 
sodium salt (MPEG-DSPE) 
fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (HSPC) 
cholesterol 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ammonium sulphate 
sucrose 
histidine 
water for injections 
hydrochloric acid (for pH-adjustment) 
sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
20 months. 
After dilution: 
- 
- 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
Partially used vials must be discarded. 
- 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I glass vials, each with a siliconised grey bromobutyl stopper, and an aluminium seal, with a 
deliverable volume of 10 ml (20 mg) or 25 ml (50 mg). 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is supplied as a single pack or packs of ten vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Do not use material that shows evidence of precipitation or any other particulate matter. 
Caution must be exercised in handling Caelyx pegylated liposomal dispersion. The use of gloves is 
required. If Caelyx pegylated liposomal comes into contact with skin or mucosa, wash immediately 
and thoroughly with soap and water. Caelyx pegylated liposomal must be handled and disposed of in a 
manner consistent with that of other anticancer medicinal products in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Determine the dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal to be administered (based upon the recommended 
dose and the patient’s body surface area). Take the appropriate volume of Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
up into a sterile syringe. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed since no preservative or 
bacteriostatic agent is present in Caelyx pegylated liposomal. The appropriate dose of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal must be diluted in 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for infusion prior to 
administration. For doses < 90 mg, dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 250 ml, and for doses 
≥ 90 mg, dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 500 ml. This can be infused over 60 or 90 minutes as 
detailed in 4.2. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of any diluent other than 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for infusion, or the presence of any 
bacteriostatic agent such as benzyl alcohol may cause precipitation of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
It is recommended that the Caelyx pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the side 
port of an intravenous infusion of 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose. Infusion may be given through a peripheral 
vein. Do not use with in-line filters. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Kobaltweg 49, 
3542 CE Utrecht, 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/96/011/001 
EU/1/96/011/002 
EU/1/96/011/003 
EU/1/96/011/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 21 June 1996 
Date of lastest renewal: 19 May 2006 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMEA) http://www.ema.europa.eu/. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium 
Baxter Oncology GmbH, Kantstrasse 2, 33790 Halle/Westfalen, Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL CARTON 20 mg/10 ml – 1 vial 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL CARTON 20 mg/10 ml – 10 vials 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: α-(2-[1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero(3)phosphooxy]ethylcarbamoyl)-ϖ-
methoxypoly(oxyethylen)-40 sodium salt, fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol, 
ammonium sulphate, sucrose, histidine, water for injections, hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial 
10 vials 
20 mg/10 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not use interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Cytotoxic 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Kobaltweg 49, 
3542 CE Utrecht, 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/96/011/001 (1 vial) 
EU/1/96/011/002 (10 vials) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL CARTON 50 mg/25 ml – 1 vial 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL CARTON 50 mg/25 ml – 10 vials 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: α-(2-[1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero(3)phosphooxy]ethylcarbamoyl)-ϖ-
methoxypoly(oxyethylen)-40 sodium salt, fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol, 
ammonium sulphate, sucrose, histidine, water for injections, hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial 
10 vials 
50 mg/25 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not use interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Cytotoxic 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Kobaltweg 49, 
3542 CE Utrecht, 
Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/96/011/003 (1 vial) 
EU/1/96/011/004 (10 vials) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL LABEL 20 mg/10 ml 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
IV after dilution. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg/10 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
CAELYX PEGYLATED LIPOSOMAL LABEL 50 mg/25 ml 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
IV after dilution. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
50 mg/25 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: information for the user 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Caelyx pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How to use Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Possible side effects 
How to store Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Caelyx pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is an antitumour agent. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is used to treat cancer of the breast in patients at risk for heart problems. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is also used to treat cancer of the ovary. It is used to kill cancer cells, 
shrink the size of the tumour, delay the growth of the tumour, and extend your survival. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is also used in combination with another medicine, bortezomib, to treat 
multiple myeloma (a cancer of the blood) in patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is also used to produce an improvement in your Kaposi’s sarcoma 
including flattening, lightening and even shrinkage of the cancer. Other symptoms of Kaposi’s 
sarcoma, such as swelling around the tumour, may also improve or disappear. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains a medicine which is able to interact with cells in such a way as to 
selectively kill cancer cells. The doxorubicin hydrochloride in Caelyx pegylated liposomal is enclosed 
in tiny spheres called pegylated liposomes which help to deliver the medicinal product from the blood 
stream to the cancerous tissue rather than healthy normal tissue. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Do not use Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
- 
if you are allergic to doxorubicin hydrochloride, peanut or soya, or any of the ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6).  
Warnings and precautions 
You should tell your doctor about any of the following: 
- 
- 
if you are receiving any treatment for heart disease or liver disease; 
if you are diabetic, because Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains sugar which may require an 
adjustment to the treatment of your diabetes; 
if you have Kaposi’s sarcoma and have had your spleen removed; 
if you notice sores, discolouration or any discomfort in your mouth. 
- 
- 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The cases of Interstitial lung diseases have been observed in patients receiving pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin including fatal cases. The symptoms of Interstitial lung disease are cough and shortness of 
breath sometimes with fever which are not caused by physical activity. Seek immediate medical 
attention, if you experience symptoms that may be signs of Interstitial lung disease. 
Children and adolescents 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal should not be used in children and adolescents, because it is not known 
how the medicine will affect them. 
Other medicines and Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist 
- 
- 
if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, including medicines obtained 
without a prescription; 
about any other cancer treatments you are on or have been taking, as particular care needs to be 
taken with treatments which reduce the number of white blood cells, as this may cause further 
reduction in the number of white blood cells. If you are unsure about what treatments you have 
received or any illnesses you have had, discuss these with your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Because the active ingredient doxorubicin hydrochloride in Caelyx pegylated liposomal may cause 
birth defects, it is important to tell your doctor if you think you are pregnant.  
Women must avoid becoming pregnant and use contraception while taking Caelyx pegylated 
liposomal and in the eight months following discontinuation of Caelyx pegylated liposomal treatment.  
Men must use contraception while taking Caelyx pegylated liposomal and in the six months following 
discontinuation of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, so that their partner does not become pregnant. 
Because doxorubicin hydrochloride may be harmful to nursing infants, women must discontinue 
breast-feeding before starting treatment with Caelyx pegylated liposomal. Health experts recommend 
that HIV infected women do not breast-feed their infants under any circumstances in order to avoid 
transmission of HIV. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you feel tired or sleepy from treatment with Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains soya oil and sodium 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains soya oil.  If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not use this 
medicine. 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say 
‘essentially sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is a unique formulation. It must not be used interchangeably with other 
formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
How much Caelyx pegylated liposomal is given 
If you are being treated for breast cancer or ovarian cancer, Caelyx pegylated liposomal will be 
administered at a dose of 50 mg per square metre of your body surface area (based on your height and 
weight). The dose is repeated every 4 weeks for as long as the disease does not progress and you are 
able to tolerate the treatment. 
If you are being treated for multiple myeloma, and have already received at least 1 prior therapy, 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal will be administered at a dose of 30 mg per square metre of your body 
surface area (based on your height and weight) as a 1 hour intravenous infusion on day 4 of the 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bortezomib 3 week regimen immediately after the bortezomib infusion. The dose is repeated as long as 
you respond satisfactorily and tolerate treatment. 
If you are being treated for Kaposi’sarcoma, Caelyx pegylated liposomal will be administered at a 
dose of 20 mg per square metre of your body surface area (based on your height and weight). The dose 
is repeated every 2 to 3 weeks for 2-3 months, then as often as necessary to maintain an improvement 
in your condition. 
How Caelyx pegylated liposomal is given 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal will be given to you by your doctor in a drip (infusion) into a vein. 
Depending on the dose and indication, this may take from 30 minutes to more than one hour (i.e., 
90 minutes). 
If you use more Caelyx pegylated liposomal than you should 
Acute overdosing worsens side effects like sores in the mouth or decreases the number of white blood 
cells and platelets in the blood. Treatment will include administration of antibiotics, platelet cell 
transfusions, use of factors which stimulate production of white blood cells and symptomatic treatment 
of mouth sores. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
During the infusion of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, the following reactions may occur: 
- 
severe allergic reaction that may include a swollen face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty 
swallowing or breathing; itchy rash (hives) 
inflamed and narrowed airways in the lungs, causing coughing, wheezing and shortness of 
breath (asthma) 
flushing, sweating, chills or a fever 
chest pain or discomfort 
back pain 
high or low blood pressure 
fast heart beat 
fits (seizures) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Leaking of the injection fluid from the veins into the tissues under the skin may occur.  If the drip 
stings or hurts while you are receiving a dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal, tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Your doctor should be contacted immediately if any of the following serious side effects are noticed: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
you develop fever, feel tired, or if you have signs of bruising or bleeding (very common) 
redness, swelling, peeling or tenderness, mainly on the hands or feet (‘hand-foot’ syndrome). 
These effects have been seen very commonly and are sometimes severe. In severe cases, these 
effects may interfere with certain daily activities, and may last for 4 weeks or longer before 
resolving completely. The doctor may wish to delay the start and/or reduce the dose of the next 
treatment (see Strategies to prevent and treat hand foot syndrome, below) 
sores in mouth, severe diarrhoea or vomiting or nausea (very common) 
infections (common), including lung infections (pneumonia) or infections that may affect your 
vision 
being short of breath (common) 
severe stomach pain (common) 
severe weakness (common) 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
severe allergic reaction that may include a swollen face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty 
swallowing or breathing; itchy rash (hives) (uncommon) 
cardiac arrest (heart stops beating); heart failure, in which the heart does not pump enough 
blood to the rest of the body, which makes you short of breath and may lead to swollen legs 
(uncommon) 
blood clot that moves to the lungs, causes chest pain and makes you short of breath 
(uncommon) 
swelling, warmth, or tenderness in the soft tissues of your leg, sometimes with pain which gets 
worse when you stand or walk (rare) 
severe or life-threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, 
nose, eyes and genitals (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) or over most of the body (toxic epidermal 
necrolysis) (rare) 
Other side effects 
Between infusions, the following may occur: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
decrease in the number of white blood cells, which can increase the chances of infections. In 
rare cases, having low white blood cells may lead to severe infection. Anaemia (reduction in red 
blood cells) may cause tiredness, and decreased platelets in the blood may increase the risk of 
bleeding. It is because of the potential changes in your blood cells that you will have regular 
blood tests. 
decreased appetite; 
constipation; 
skin rashes, including redness of the skin, allergic skin rash, red or raised rash on the skin 
hair loss 
pain including in the muscles and chest muscle, joint, arm, or leg 
feeling very tired 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
infections, including severe infection throughout the body (sepsis), lung infections, herpes 
zoster virus infections (shingles), a type of bacterial infection (mycobacterium avium complex 
infection), urinary tract infection, fungal infections (including thrush and oral thrush in the 
mouth) infection of the hair roots, infected or irritated throat, infected nose, sinuses or throat 
(cold) 
low number of a type of white blood cell (neutrophils), with a fever 
severe weight loss and muscle wasting, not enough water in the body (dehydration), low level of 
potassium, sodium, or calcium in the blood 
feeling confused, feeling anxious, depression, difficulty sleeping 
nerve damage that may cause tingling, numbness, pain or loss of pain sensation, nerve pain, 
unusual feeling in the skin (such as tingling or a crawling feeling), decreased feeling or 
sensitivity, especially in the skin 
change in sense of taste, headache, feeling very sleepy with low energy, feeling dizzy; 
inflamed eyes (conjunctivitis) 
fast heart beat 
high or low blood pressure, flushing 
shortness of breath that may be brought on by physical activity, nose bleeds, cough 
inflamed stomach lining or foodpipe, ulcers (sores) in the mouth, indigestion, difficulty 
swallowing, mouth pain, dry mouth 
skin problems, including flaky or dry skin, redness of the skin, blister or ulcer (sore) on the skin, 
itching, dark skin patches 
excessive sweating 
muscle spasms or aches 
pain including in the muscles, bone, or back 
pain when passing urine 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
35 
 
 
 
- 
- 
allergic reaction to infusion of the medicine, flu-like illness, chills, inflamed lining of the 
cavities and passages in the body, such as the nose, mouth or windpipe, feeling weak, generally 
feeling unwell, swelling caused by fluid build up in the body, swollen hands, ankles or feet 
weight loss 
When Caelyx pegylated liposomal is used alone, some of these effects are less likely to occur, and 
some have not occurred at all. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
herpes simplex virus infections (cold sores or genital herpes), fungal infection 
low number of all types of blood cells, increased number of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to 
clot) 
allergic reaction 
high level of potassium in the blood, low level of magnesium in the blood 
nerve damage affecting more than one area of the body 
fits (seizures), fainting 
unpleasant or painful sensation, especially to touch, feeling sleepy 
blurred vision, watery eyes 
heart beat feels fast or uneven (palpitations), heart muscle disease, heart damage 
tissue damage (necrosis) where the injection is given, inflamed veins that cause swelling and 
pain, feeling dizzy upon sitting up or standing up 
chest discomfort 
passing wind, inflamed gums (gingivitis) 
skin problems or rashes, including flaky or peeling skin, allergic skin rash, ulcer (sore) or hives 
on the skin, discoloured skin, change in the natural colour (pigment) of the skin, small red or 
purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin, nail problems, acne 
muscle weakness 
breast pain 
irritation or pain where the injection is given 
swollen face, high body temperature 
symptoms (such as inflammation, redness or pain) come back at a part of the body that 
previously received radiation therapy or was previously damaged by a chemotherapy injection 
into a vein 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
infection that occurs in people with a weak immune system 
low number of blood cells made in the bone marrow 
inflamed retina, which may cause changes in vision or blindness 
abnormal heart rhythm, abnormal heart tracing on an ECG (electrocardiogram) and may be with 
a slow heart beat, problem with the heart that affects the heart beat and rhythm, blue colour to 
the skin and mucosa caused by low oxygen in the blood 
widening of blood vessels 
tight feeling in the throat 
sore and swollen tongue, ulcer (sore) on the lip 
skin rash with fluid-filled blisters 
vaginal infection, redness of the scrotum 
problems with the lining of the cavities and passages in the body, such as the nose, mouth or 
windpipe 
abnormal liver blood test results, increased level of ‘creatinine’ in the blood 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
cancer of the blood that develops quickly and affects the blood cells (acute myeloid leukaemia), 
bone marrow disease that affects the blood cells (myelodysplastic syndrome), cancer of the 
mouth or lip 
Coughing and shortness of breath, possibly accompanied by fever, that is not brought on by 
physical activity (Interstitial lung disease) 
- 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
Strategies to prevent and treat hand-foot syndrome include: 
- 
soaking hands and/or feet in basins of cold water when possible (e.g., while watching television, 
reading, or listening to the radio); 
keeping hands and feet uncovered (no gloves, socks, etc.); 
staying in cool places; 
taking cool baths during hot weather; 
avoiding vigorous exercise that might cause trauma to the feet (e.g., jogging); 
avoiding exposure of skin to very hot water (e.g., jacuzzis, saunas); 
avoiding tight fitting footwear or high-heeled shoes. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pyridoxine (Vitamin B6): 
- 
- 
vitamin B6 is available without prescription; 
take 50-150 mg daily beginning at the first signs of redness or tingling. 
5. 
How to store Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
After dilution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. Partially used vials must be discarded. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that it shows evidence of precipitation or any other particulate 
matter. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Caelyx pegylated liposomal contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is doxorubicin hydrochloride. One ml of Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
contains 2 mg of doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated liposomal formulation. 
The other ingredients are α-(2-[1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero(3)phosphooxy]ethylcarbamoyl)-ω-
methoxypoly(oxyethylen)-40 sodium salt (MPEG-DSPE), fully hydrogenated soy 
phosphatidylcholine (HSPC), cholesterol, ammonium sulphate, sucrose, histidine, water for 
injections, hydrochloric acid (for pH-adjustment) and sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment).  
See section 2.  
Caelyx pegylated liposomal concentrate for solution for infusion: vials which provide 10 ml (20 mg) 
or 25 ml (50 mg). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Caelyx pegylated liposomal looks like and contents of the pack 
Caelyx pegylated liposomal is sterile, translucent and red. Caelyx pegylated liposomal is available in 
glass vials as a single pack or packs of ten vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Kobaltweg 49, 
3542 CE Utrecht, 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV 
Turnhoutseweg 30 
B-2340 Beerse 
Belgium 
Baxter Oncology GmbH 
Kantstrasse 2  
33790 Halle/Westfalen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Baxter Belgium SPRL/BVBA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 386 80 00  
braine_reception@baxter.com 
България 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Teл.: +31 (0)30 2488 911 
Česká republika 
BAXTER CZECH spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 774 111   
Danmark 
Baxter A/S 
Tlf: +45 4816 6400 
Deutschland 
Baxter Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)89 31701-0  
info_de@baxter.com  
Eesti 
OÜ Baxter Estonia  
Tel: +372 651 5120 
Ελλάδα 
Baxter (Hellas) Ε.Π.Ε.,  
Τηλ: +30 210 28 80 000  
Lietuva 
UAB „Baxter Lithuania“ 
Tel: +37052527100 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Baxter Belgium SPRL/BVBA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 386 80 00  
braine_reception@baxter.com 
Magyarország 
Baxter Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 202 1980 
Malta 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Tel: +44 (0)1635 206345  
Nederland 
Baxter B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0)30 2488 911 
utrecht_reception@baxter.com 
Norge 
Baxter AS 
Tlf: +47 22 58 48 00 
Österreich 
Baxter Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 71120 0 
austria_office_healthcare@baxter.com   
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Baxter S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 678 93 00 
France 
Baxter SAS 
Tél: +33 1 34 61 50 50 
Hrvatska 
Baxter Healthcare d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6610314  
Ireland 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Tel: +44 (0)1635 206345  
Ísland 
Baxter Medical AB 
Sími: +46 8 632 64 00 
Italia 
Baxter S.p.A.  
Tel: +390632491233  
Κύπρος 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Τηλ: +31 (0)30 2488 911 
Latvija 
Baxter Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 677 84784 
This leaflet was last approved on 
Polska 
Baxter Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 488 37 77 
Portugal 
Baxter Médico Farmacêutica, Lda.  
Tel: +351 21 925 25 00  
România 
BAXTER HEALTHCARE SRL 
Tel: +40 372 302 053 
Slovenija 
Baxter d.o.o.  
Tel: +386 1 420 16 80  
Slovenská republika 
Baxter Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: +421 2 32 10 11 50  
Suomi/Finland 
Baxter Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (09) 862 111 
Sverige 
Baxter Medical AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 632 64 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Baxter Holding B.V. 
Tel: +44 (0)1635 206345  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
(EMEA) http://www.emea.europa.eu/. 
39 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only (see section 3): 
Caution must be exercised in handling Caelyx pegylated liposomal dispersion. The use of gloves is 
required. If Caelyx pegylated liposomal comes into contact with skin or mucosa, wash immediately 
and thoroughly with soap and water. Caelyx pegylated liposomal must be handled and disposed of in a 
manner consistent with that of other anticancer medicinal products. 
Determine the dose of Caelyx pegylated liposomal to be administered (based upon the recommended 
dose and the patient's body surface area). Take the appropriate volume of Caelyx pegylated liposomal 
up into a sterile syringe. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed since no preservative or 
bacteriostatic agent is present in Caelyx pegylated liposomal. The appropriate dose of Caelyx 
pegylated liposomal must be diluted in 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for infusion prior to 
administration. For doses < 90 mg, dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 250 ml, and for doses 
≥ 90 mg, dilute Caelyx pegylated liposomal in 500 ml. 
To minimise the risk of infusion reactions, the initial dose is administered at a rate no greater than 
1 mg/minute. If no infusion reaction is observed, subsequent Caelyx pegylated liposomal infusions 
may be administered over a 60-minute period. 
In the breast cancer trial program, modification of the infusion was permitted for those patients 
experiencing an infusion reaction as follows: 5% of the total dose was infused slowly over the first 
15 minutes. If tolerated without reaction, the infusion rate was doubled for the next 15 minutes. If 
tolerated, the infusion was completed over the next hour for a total infusion time of 90 minutes. 
If the patient experiences early symptoms or signs of infusion reaction, immediately discontinue the 
infusion, give appropriate premedications (antihistamine and/or short acting corticosteroid) and restart 
at a slower rate. 
The use of any diluent other than 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose solution for infusion, or the presence of any 
bacteriostatic agent such as benzyl alcohol may cause precipitation of Caelyx pegylated liposomal. 
It is recommended that the Caelyx pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the side 
port of an intravenous infusion of 5% (50 mg/ml) glucose. Infusion may be given through a peripheral 
vein. Do not use with in-line filters.  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S) 
ANNEX IV 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for doxorubicin, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on interstitial lung disease from the literature and spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship, the PRAC considers a causal relationship 
between pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and interstitial lung disease is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing pegylated 
liposomal doxorubicin should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for doxorubicin the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing doxorubicin is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
42 
 
 
