PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR CALQUENCE 
(ACALABRUTINIB) 
This is a summary of the RMP for CALQUENCE.  The RMP details important risks of 
CALQUENCE, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about CALQUENCE risks and uncertainties (missing information).   
The CALQUENCE summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflet for 
CALQUENCE give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
CALQUENCE should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for CALQUENCE should be read in the context of all this 
information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current risks will be included in updates to the 
CALQUENCE RMP.   
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
CALQUENCE is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukaemia (see SmPC for full indication). It contains acalabrutinib as the active substance 
and it is given orally by capsule 
Further information about the evaluation of CALQUENCE’s benefits can be found in 
CALQUENCE’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
<https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/calquence> 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE 
OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of CALQUENCE, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about the risks of CALQUENCE, are outlined below.   
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.   
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
If important information that may affect the safe use of CALQUENCE is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below.   
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of CALQUENCE are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered.  Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of CALQUENCE.  
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation.  Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the 
medicine).   
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risks 
Haemorrhage with or without association with 
thrombocytopenia 
Serious infections with or without association with 
neutropenia 
Second primary malignancy 
Atrial fibrillation/flutter 
Cerebrovascular events 
Hepatoxicity 
Long-term safety  
Use in patients with moderate to severe cardiac 
impairment 
Important Identified Risk:  Haemorrhage with or without association with thrombocytopenia 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
BTK is present on platelets and is required for collagen- or shear 
stress-induced platelet aggregation (Liu et al 2006, Quek et al 1998) and 
there is a correlation between the degree of BTK inhibition and the 
occurrence of clinical bleeding (Kamel et al 2015).  Furthermore, 
analysis of the CALQUENCE Mono HemeMalig population showed 
that bleeding events were reported in 46.3% of the patients.   
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patient factors 
Advanced age, comorbid medical conditions (eg, cerebrovascular 
disease, hepatic or renal disease, and diabetes mellitus), a history of 
bleeding (especially in the GI tract), and anaemia are predictive of 
subsequent bleeding complications (Shoeb and Fang 2013).  Lower 
levels of von Willebrand factor activity, and factor VIII (Lipsky et al 
2015) are also risks.    
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section(s) 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Identified Risk:  Serious infections with or without association with neutropenia 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
There is a plausible mechanism of action between BTK and infections, 
based on preclinical evidence examining the role of BTK in XLA 
patients.  Furthermore, the reported rates of infections (both any grade 
and Grade ≥3) for subjects in the CALQUENCE Mono HemMalig 
population were very common (per CIOMS-defined frequencies). 
Risk factors and risk groups 
General risk factors not specific to CALQUENCE are divided into those 
that are host-associated and those that are treatment-associated.  
Host-associated factors include underlying immune deficiencies, 
medical comorbidities, past infections, poor nutritional status, 
psychological stress (Zembower 2014), and the underlying 
haematological malignancy.  Treatment-associated factors include 
surgery, radiation, immunosuppressant therapies, antimicrobial use, and 
invasive procedures. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section(s) 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
Important Identified Risk:  Second Primary Malignancy 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Based on evidence that eliminating B cells, as with BTK inhibitors, may 
potentially promote cancer progression, there is a plausible mechanism 
of action for how CALQUENCE may lead to haemorrhage.  There is a 
plausible mechanism of action linking CALQUENCE and SPMs.  The 
reported rates of SPM for subjects in the CALQUENCE Mono 
HemMalig population were very common (per CIOMS-defined 
frequencies).  Results from two pivotal Phase 3 studies for CLL 
(ACE-CL-007 and ACE-CL-309) demonstrated higher incidence rates 
of SPM (skin and non-skin) in the CALQUENCE arm as compared to 
rates in the comparators arms.  It has been reported in literature that the 
incidence of SPM in patients treated with BTK inhibitors for CLL was 
increased relative to the general population (Bond et al 2019).  
Additionally, SPM has been described with other BTK inhibitors. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patient factors 
Age is a risk factor for secondary malignancy (Andre et al 2004, Moser 
et al 2006).  Incidence of SPM in patients treated with BTK inhibitors 
for CLL was increased relative to the general population (Bond et al 
2019).   
Additive or synergistic factors 
Use of any type of chemotherapy alone was associated with higher risk 
for secondary malignant neoplasms.  A similar result was observed in 
the sub-analysis on patients treated only with alkylating agents, while 
the pooled relative risk of secondary malignant neoplasms for patients 
who underwent treatment with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin 
[hydroxydaunomycin], vincristine [oncovin], and prednisolone), or 
CHOP-like or radiotherapy alone, was raised but not statistically 
significant.  A combined modality of treatment was significantly 
associated with the risk for overall secondary malignant neoplasms but 
not for solid tumours (Pirani et al 2011).   
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section(s) 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Identified Risk:  Atrial Fibrillation/Flutter 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
The mechanism underlying atrial fibrillation/flutter events is currently 
unknown.  In two Phase 3 pivotal studies for CLL (ACE-CL-007 and 
ACE-CL-309), the incidence of atrial fibrillation/flutter events was 
higher in the CALQUENCE monotherapy arm as compared to the 
comparator arm.  Furthermore, the reported rates of atrial 
fibrillation/flutter for subjects in the CALQUENCE Mono HemMalig 
population were common (per CIOMS-defined frequencies).  
Additionally, atrial fibrillation/flutter has been described with other 
BTK inhibitors. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
General risk factors not specific to CALQUENCE include advancing 
age, male sex, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, valvular disease, 
myocardial infarction, heart failure, obesity, elevated inflammatory 
marker concentrations, hypoxia, hypercapnia, acidosis, electrolyte 
disturbances, autonomic dysfunction, and PR-interval prolongation 
 
(Ferreira et al 2015, Rienstra et al 2012).  In recent years, increasing 
data have been reported supporting the notion that atrial 
fibrillation/flutter in the general population is heritable (Rienstra et al 
2012).  Several classes of cancer chemotherapeutic agents appear to be 
associated with cardiac arrhythmias like anthracyclines (rate of 2% to 
10% of cases), melphalan (rate of 7% to 12% of cases), and 
interleukin 2 (IL-2) (Guglin et al 2009). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section(s) 4.4 and 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
BTK=Bruton tyrosine kinase; BMI=body mass index; CIOMS= Council for International Organizations of 
Medical Sciences; CLL=chronic lymphocytic leukaemia; MedDRA=Medical Dictionary for Regulatory 
Activities; PT=Preferred Term; SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics; SMQ=standardised MedDRA 
query; SPM=second primary malignancy; XLA=X-linked agammaglobulinemia. 
Important Potential Risks 
Important Potential Risk: Cerebrovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Cerebrovascular events have been observed with ibrutinib but are not 
considered causally associated (not listed in section 4.8 of SmPC). 
Cerebrovascular events have been observed with CALQUENCE however a 
causal relationship seems unlikely, since in most cases other significant 
confounding factors were present as well as the long time to event onset in 
some cases 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Many risk factors for cerebrovascular events have been described, some of 
them are biological traits such as age and sex, some of them are physiological 
or pathological characteristics such as high blood pressure, serum cholesterol 
and fibrinogen and some are behavioural such as smoking, diet, alcohol 
consumption, and physical inactivity; some are social characteristics such as 
education, social class and ethnicity; and some are environmental factors that 
may be physical (temperature, altitude), geographical, or psychosocial. In 
addition, medical factors including previous TIA or stroke, ischemic heart 
disease, atrial fibrillation, and glucose intolerance, all increase the risk of 
stroke. 
Overall, atrial fibrillation (an important identified risk for CALQUENCE) 
may be associated with higher risk of cardiovascular events. 
Risk minimisation measures  
None 
BTK=Bruton tyrosine kinase; SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics; TIA=transient ischaemic attack. 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The mechanism underlying hepatotoxicity events is currently unknown.  
Following a comprehensive review of hepatotoxicity events in the 
CALQUENCE clinical program, there was insufficient evidence to establish 
an association between hepatotoxicity and CALQUENCE due to the 
contribution of confounding factors, absence of clinical symptoms, and quick 
recovery without treatment for patients with transaminase elevations. There is 
limited evidence regarding hepatotoxicity from literature for other BTK 
inhibitors. 
Risk factors for the development of hepatotoxicity that are non-specific to 
CALQUENCE include increasing age, the female gender, chronic hepatitis B 
and C, and HIV.  Additional risk factors include the daily dose and 
metabolism of the offending drug and the potential to develop toxic reactive 
metabolites secondary to hepatic metabolism (Chalasani and Bjornsson 2010).  
Chronic alcohol consumption, underlying nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and 
concomitant medication use, such as some nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs, antibiotics, and seizure medications may increase the risk for a patient 
to develop hepatotoxicity (Sandhu and Navarro 2020). 
Risk minimisation measures 
None  
BTK=Bruton tyrosine kinase; SmPC=Summary of Prod 
Missing Information 
Missing Information:  Long-term Safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
D8220C00008 
This utilisation will be further characterised from routine pharmacovigilance 
activities and from results of an ongoing Study D8220C00008, which is a 
Phase 3b, multicentre, open-label, single-arm study of CALQUENCE 
(ACP-196) in subjects with CLL.  The primary objective of this study is to 
evaluate the safety and tolerability of CALQUENCE monotherapy in 
approximately 600 subjects with TN or R/R CLL who may receive 
CALQUENCE for 48 cycles of study treatment (28 days per cycle).   
 
Missing Information:  Use in Patients with Moderate to Severe Cardiac Impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
D8220C00008 
This utilisation will be further characterised from routine pharmacovigilance 
activities and from results of a planned cohort in an ongoing Study 
D8220C00008, which is a Phase 3b, multicentre, open-label, single-arm study 
of CALQUENCE (ACP-196) in subjects with CLL.  The primary objective of 
this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CALQUENCE 
monotherapy in approximately 600 subjects with TN or R/R CLL who may 
receive CALQUENCE for 48 cycles of study treatment (28 days per cycle). 
The planned cohort to evaluate use in patients with moderate to severe cardiac 
impairment will have an inclusion and exclusion criteria specific to the cohort.  
A maximum of 30 subjects will be enrolled, beginning with 3 subjects, 
followed by a staggered expansion, pending no subjects have met pre-defined 
stopping criteria.  Subjects will be carefully monitored for AEs and laboratory 
abnormalities, and will have routine assessments performed, which include 
ECGs, echocardiograms, and/or cardiac MRI.    
CLL=chronic lymphocytic leukaemia; MRI=magnetic resonance imaging; R/R=relapsed or refractory; 
TN=treatment naive. 
Post-authorisation development plan 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligations 
of CALQUENCE.   
Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
D8220C00008 (ASSURE)  
Study short name and title  
Study D8220C00008:  A Phase 3b, multicentre, open-label, single-arm study of 
CALQUENCE (ACP-196) in subjects with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (ASSURE). 
Purpose of the Study 
Additional safety data are needed to further characterize less common AEs and management 
of common AEs for TN or R/R CLL patients treated with CALQUENCE.  This study will 
provide data collected in a setting more reflective of real-world practice and it may further 
inform on patient management. 
Study objectives 
•  Primary objective:  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CALQUENCE 
monotherapy in subjects with TN or R/R CLLb. 
•  Secondary objective:  To evaluate the investigator-assessed ORR, DOR, and PFS in 
subjects receiving CALQUENCE monotherapy. 
bThis includes Long Term Safety and SPMs 
 
Cohort to D8220C00008 (ASSURE) 
Study short name and title  
Cohort to Study D8220C00008:  A Phase 3b, multicentre, open-label, single-arm study of 
CALQUENCE (ACP-196) in subjects with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (ASSURE). 
Purpose of the study 
Additional safety data are needed to further characterize less common AEs and management 
of common AEs for TN or R/R CLL patients treated with CALQUENCE.  This study will 
provide data collected in a setting more reflective of real-world practice and it may further 
inform on patient management.  
In order to characterize the missing information on moderate to severe cardiac impairment in 
subjects treated with CALQUENCE, this study will add a cohort to enrol subjects with 
preexisting moderate to severe cardiac impairment with planned recruitment start in Q1/2021 
Study objectives 
•  Primary objective:  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CALQUENCE 
monotherapy in subjects with TN or R/R CLLc. 
•  Secondary objective:  To evaluate the investigator-assessed ORR, DOR, and PFS in 
subjects receiving CALQUENCE monotherapy. 
cThis includes Long Term Safety and Second Primary Malignancies (SPMs) 
    
 
