EMA/457460/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005299 
Calquence (acalabrutinib) 
An overview of Calquence and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Calquence and what is it used for? 
Calquence is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), a blood 
cancer affecting B cells (a type of white blood cell).  
Calquence is used on its own (monotherapy) in patients with CLL who have had previous treatment. In 
patients who have not had previous treatment for the condition, Calquence may be used on its own or 
combined with another cancer medicine, obinutuzumab. 
Calquence contains the active substance acalabrutinib. 
How is Calquence used? 
Calquence can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by 
a doctor with experience in the use of cancer medicines. It is available as capsules to be taken by 
mouth; the recommended dose is 100 mg taken twice a day. Calquence is continued as long as the 
cancer remains under control and there are no unacceptable side effects. Treatment may be 
interrupted or stopped, or the dose modified, if serious side effects occur or certain other medicines 
have to be taken.  
For more information about using Calquence, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Calquence work? 
The active substance in Calquence, acalabrutinib, blocks an enzyme called Bruton's tyrosine kinase, 
which helps B cells to survive and grow. By blocking this enzyme, acalabrutinib is expected to slow 
down the build-up of cancerous B cells in CLL, thereby delaying progression of the cancer. 
What benefits of Calquence have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies have shown that Calquence is effective at delaying death or the worsening of the 
disease.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
One of the studies, involving 535 patients who had not had previous treatment for CLL, compared 
Calquence or its combination with obinutuzumab versus a combination of obinutuzumab with another 
cancer medicine, chlorambucil. After around 28 months, 8% of the patients given Calquence in 
combination and 15% given Calquence alone had died or their cancer had got worse, compared with 
53% given obinutuzumab and chlorambucil. 
A second main study involving 310 patients compared Calquence alone with a combination of other 
cancer medicines (rituximab and either idelalisib or bendamustine) in patients whose CLL had come 
back or not responded with previous treatment. After around 16 months, 17% of the patients given 
Calquence had died or their cancer had got worse, compared with 44% of those given the rituximab 
combinations. 
What are the risks associated with Calquence? 
The most common side effects with Calquence (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
infections, headache, diarrhoea, bruising, muscle pain, nausea (feeling sick), tiredness, cough and 
rash. When used in combination with other cancer medicines, joint pain, dizziness and constipation 
were also very common. 
The most common serious reactions with Calquence (which may affect more than 1 in 20 people) were 
infections and low white and red blood cell counts (leucopenia, neutropenia, and anaemia). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Calquence, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Calquence authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Calquence’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. Clear benefit has been shown with Calquence in patients with CLL, 
either alone or, in patients who had not been previously treated, also with obinutuzumab. These 
results were considered clinically relevant, and although the studies involved older patients and 
patients with other illnesses the results are likely to apply to younger and fitter patients as well. The 
medicine’s side effects are considered acceptable and in line with those of other medicines that work in 
the same way. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Calquence? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Calquence have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Calquence are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Calquence are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Calquence 
Calquence received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 5 November 2020. 
Further information on Calquence can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/calquence.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2020. 
Calquence (acalabrutinib)  
EMA/457460/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
