05 November 2020 
EMA/OD/0000021547  
EMADOC-1700519818-522503 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Calquence (Acalabrutinib) 
Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia / small lymphocytic lymphoma 
EU/3/16/1624 
Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB  
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues ................................................................................ 12 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Acalabrutinib 
Other name(s) 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
-   
- 
Calquence 
Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia / small 
lymphocytic lymphoma  
AstraZeneca AB   
151 85 
Södertälje 
Sweden  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number  
AstraZeneca AB   
18 February 2016  
21 March 2016  
EU/3/16/1624 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Filip Josephson / Blanca Garcia-Ochoa  
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
AstraZeneca AB   
14 October 2019 
31 October 2019 
EMA/H/C/005299 
Calquence 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) 
Further information on Calquence can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
AR/Calquence  
CHMP opinion date 
23 July 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Karri Penttila / Frauke Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission 
12 November 2019  
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
14-16 July 2020  
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
08 September 2020  
10 September 2020 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 18 February 2016 
designation was based on the following grounds: 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing acalabrutinib was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical data showing improved survival; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the development of cytopaenias 
(anaemia, neutropaenia, thrombocytopaenia), lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly 
and impaired production of normal immunoglobulin leading to increased susceptibility to infections; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 4.5 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made. 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing acalabrutinib will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The 
sponsor has provided clinical data that demonstrate an improved survival. The Committee considered 
that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
CLL/SLL is a lymphoproliferative malignancy characterized by progressive accumulation of 
morphologically mature but functionally incompetent lymphocytes in the blood, bone marrow, and 
lymphoid tissues that affects mainly elderly individuals with the median age at presentation of 65 to 70 
years. They are both characterized by the presence of small B-lymphocytes that typically express CD5 
and CD23 cell surface antigens (Jaffe et al, 2001). Whereas CLL is associated with a leukaemic phase, 
SLL is characterized by a nodal or solid phase. Based on their similar morphological and 
immunophenotypic features, the World Health Organization (WHO) classification scheme for 
haematopoietic malignancies considers CLL and SLL to be different manifestations of the same disease 
and combines these entities into one disease category (CLL/SLL) (Jaffe et al,2001). The definition of 
SLL requires the presence of lymphadenopathy and/or splenomegaly. Moreover, the number of B 
lymphocytes in the peripheral blood should not exceed 5x109/L (Hallek, 2008). 
The COMP continues to designate the condition. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
The approved therapeutic indication “Calquence monotherapy or in combination with obinutuzumab is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). Calquence monotherapy is indicated for treatment of adult 
patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) /small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) who have 
received at least one prior therapy.” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition 
“Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia / small lymphocytic lymphoma”  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by a positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The clinical course is highly variable. Some patients survive for decades, whereas others develop 
aggressive disease and die within several years of diagnosis. Additional markers are available to 
predict the prognosis of patients with CLL, in particular at early stages. Patients with a detectable 
del(17p) or a mutation of TP53 (
5% at diagnosis and up to 10% at treatment initiation) have the 
poorest prognosis, with a median OS of 2–5 years. With the new treatment options available, the 
∼
overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced disease stages has improved. The median survival from 
diagnosis generally varies between 6.5 years to well beyond 10 years (ESMO, 2015).   
The disease is frequently presented in the elderly, with a median age of 72 years at diagnosis. The 
condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to development of cytopenias (anaemia, 
neutropenia, thrombocytopenia), lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly and impaired 
production of normal immunoglobulin leading to increased susceptibility to infections. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has provided a mix of publications which were published over a range of years spanning 
from 1990 to 2016. Data is reported from the UK Cancer registry covering prevalence up to 2010 and 
Nordcan data up to 2016. It is a mix of prevalence data over a wide range of dates which could lead to 
an under-estimate of the prevalence as the number of patients with the condition can evolve over 
time. There is no information provided from ECIS. 
The sponsor has focused on available data on prevalence and has not provided data on the incidence 
and overall survival and the alternative methodology of using incidence times duration, which could 
offer an additional perspective on the current situation in Europe. A table of previous orphan 
designations has been submitted, however, it is the responsibility of each sponsor to establish the 
prevalence at the given time. The COMP does not normally accept Orphanet figures as it is not a 
primary source of data. 
It has been noted that the epidemiological landscape for CLL/SLL has been changing since 2000. An 
interesting article can be found in Haematologica (Baliakas P et al, Letter to the Editor, Haematologica 
2018; 103:e158) regarding the change in survival of CLL patients with the introduction of new 
treatments. The article states: “A milestone in the management of CLL was the introduction of 
combined chemoimmunotherapy, in particular the fludarabine-cyclophosphamide-rituximab (FCR) 
regimen.  FCR is the gold standard first-line treatment for medically fit CLL patients except those 
carrying aberrations of the TP53 gene (TP53abs: i.e. deletion of chromosome 17p, del(17p) and/or 
TP53 mutations) who should be managed using signaling inhibitors. Additional options, consisting of 
different combinations of chemotherapeutic agents, anti-CD20 antibodies, signalling inhibitors and the 
BCL2 inhibitor venetoclax hold promise for further improvement of patients’ care.” The authors provide 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
a table of the change in survival from 1980 to 2014 which clearly shows the impact of the new 
therapies introduced.  
The sponsor’s calculation does not consider the recent substantial increase in the overall survival from 
2006 to 2014 as is reported in 2018. Given that CLL is a relapsing disease, the appropriate 
epidemiological index to report the number of affected individuals for the purpose of orphan 
designation is complete prevalence, regardless of how long ago the diagnosis has been made.  
The COMP considered that the sponsor should be invited to recalculate the prevalence estimate with 
more current information than that provided in the submission. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The sponsor lists several products that have been authorised for use in the treatment of patients with 
CLL/SLL. The products cited are: rituximab, bendamustine, chlorambucil, venetoclax, ibrutinib and 
idelalisib. The sponsor cites the 2012 ESMO Guidelines for CLL but has not taken note of the more 
updated 2015 ESMO Guideline (Annals of Oncology 26 (Supplement 5): v78–v84, 2015). The revised 
treatment algorithm from the ESMO 2015 Guidelines is presented below.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Relapse treatment. CLL, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia; SLL, small lymphocytic leukaemia; BCR, B-cell 
receptor; R, rituximab; BR, bendamustine plus rituximab; FCR, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab; 
alloHSCT, allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On 27 June 2017 ESMO published an update involving recommendations for treatment of advanced 
disease stage – front line treatment. The text states: Patients with TP53 deletion/mutation have a poor 
prognosis even after FCR therapy. Therefore, it is recommended that with TP53 deletion/mutation are 
treated with ibrutinib in front-line. Because of severe infectious complications, PI3K inhibitor idelalisib 
combined with rituximab is only recommended for frontline therapy in patients not suitable for Btk 
inhibitors, if anti-infective prophylaxis is taken and measures to prevent infection are followed. Patients 
unsuitable for BCR inhibitor therapy may otherwise be treated with BCL2 inhibitor venetoclax. 
Recommendation: Patients with del(17p) or TP53 mutation who are unsuitable for BCR inhibitor 
therapy may be treated with the BCL2 inhibitor venetoclax.  
Significant benefit 
The sponsor’s product is acalabrutinib has the same mode of action as ibrutinib, a Bruton tyrosine 
kinase (BTK) inhibitor. The sponsor’s proposed indication currently at CHMP is: 
 “Calquence monotherapy or in combination with obinutuzumab is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma 
(SLL). Calquence monotherapy is indicated for treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL) /small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) who have received at least one prior therapy.” 
The authorized indication for ibrutinib in CLL/SLL is: 
• 
• 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent or in combination with obinutuzumab is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (see 
section 5.1). 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent or in combination with bendamustine and rituximab (BR) is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CLL who have received at least one prior 
therapy. 
The sponsor obtained orphan designation in 2019 shortly before their submission for marketing 
authorization and as such they did not have the possibility to discuss the requirements for significant 
benefit with COMP during a protocol assistance. The sponsor came for Scientific Advice twice (2016 
and 2018).  
The sponsor argues significant benefit based on: 
Direct comparison 
A direct comparison is available against Obinutuzumab in combination with Chlorambucil for previously 
untreated patients, and against idelalisib+rituximab or bendamustine+rituximab (investigator’s best 
choice) for previously treated patients. With a median-follow up of 28 months and an event rate of 
52% in the control arm IRC-assessed PFS for Acala+Obin vs clb+obi, the primary outcome, showed a 
HR of 0.10 [95% CI: 0.06, 0.17]; p<0.0001, in favour of the Acala+Obin arm. The sensitivity analyses 
are supportive of this outcome. The median estimated PFS for the experimental arm was not reached; 
the median estimated PFS for the control arm was 22.6 months (95%CI: 20.2, 27.6). In terms of HR 
for PFS, the subgroup analyses consistently favour the experimental arm.  
The Significant benefit is based on improved efficacy can be accepted over obinutuzumab, idelalisib 
and bendamustine in combination with rituximab.  
Significant benefit over the newer agents venetoclax and ibrutinib must be demonstrated based on 
cross-trial comparisons or formally matched-adjusted indirect comparison (MAIC). Prior treatment with 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
either ibrutinib or venetoclax was an exclusion criterion for the pivotal trial for previously treated CLL, 
but external data provide some evidence for acalabrutinib post venetoclax or ibrutinib.  
Indirect comparisons 
The sponsor submits a number of crude or matched indirect comparisons (MAICs) to either treatment 
options for previously untreated or previously treated patients to different regimens, but not to 
FCR. Practically all trials are different with respect to inclusion criteria so that crude comparisons are of 
limited value and the effective sample size of acalabrutinib studies are sometimes very much reduced 
for the MAICs (e.g. exclusion of 2/3 of the patient population for the comparison of the monotherapies 
with ibrutinib/acalabrutinib).  
The sponsor presents safety/tolerability data both based on crude comparison and before and after 
matching and highlights reduced rates of any grade AEs or reduced specific grade 3/4 AEs or SAE.  
The sponsor also provides indirect comparison of the two monotherapy treatments in previously 
untreated patients and the three trials which compared Obi+Clb to ibrutinib or acalabrutinib or 
venetoclax in combination with obinuzumab.  
In the following table, efficacy is compared between the obinutuzumab-combinations. The 
comparison of demographics from these studies suggests general comparability between the 
acalabrutinib+obinutuzumab (AG) arm and the venetoclax+obinutuzumab (VG) arm. However, the 
demographics of the ibrutinib+obinutuzumab (IG) arm appears to present less favourable 
demographics compared with the AG arm. This may be a result of inclusion criteria that limited the 
study to subjects who were unfit for fludarabine.    
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety appears overall more favourable (also with respect to rate differences) for AG 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical considerations 
The sponsor has proposed a weighted approach, assigning weights to individual observations so that 
there is balance between the compared groups. The sponsor also state that the distributions of weights 
were inspected to identify potential sensitivity to extreme weights. The weighted t-test for continuous 
variables and the weighted Chi-square test for categorical variables were used in the comparison. The 
weights were used to calculate the effective sample size (ESS) achieved after weighting patients. A low 
ESS may indicate an irregular distribution of weights across patients, meaning that only a small 
fraction of patients may be utilized to drive the treatment effect. 
There is considerable uncertainty with respect to the magnitude and importance of any efficacy 
differences between acalarutininb and venetoclax. Any improved safety needs to take this possible 
inferior efficacy into account. In conclusion, the sponsor provided both results of superiority head-to-
head comparison as well as a number of cross-trial comparisons comparing acalabrutinib monotherapy 
or in combination with obinituzumab to various authorized monotherapy or combination treatments 
including ibrutinib (same class of BTKi) and venetoclax (among the new SoC for CLL) both in previously 
untreated or in  The differences with respect to baseline characteristics and trial methods between the 
trials hamper any firm conclusion.  
The COMP therefore considered that the sponsor has not justified sufficiently the basis for significant 
benefit and should further elaborate on concerns associated with the indirect comparisons. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Prevalence 
The sponsor is asked to re-address the prevalence of the proposed condition in the EU, taking into 
account the “Points to consider on the estimation and reporting of the prevalence of a condition for 
orphan designation” 
The sponsor is asked to recalculate the prevalence as no current data regarding the incidence and 
overall survival has been provided for this incurable disease.  Sensitivity analyses on all assumptions 
should be conducted as the prevalence of CLL/SLL is very close to the threshold. These should include 
expectations on contemporary crude incidence and the impact of current treatment on survival and 
should therefore clarify the complete prevalence of CLL/SLL. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor should further elaborate on the robustness of the results of the indirect comparisons 
presented for acalabrutinib to ibrutinib and venetoclax to demonstrate significant benefit with respect 
to efficacy and safety by cross-trial comparison, also in view of the reduced effective sample sizes and 
the unequal distribution of weights in the MAIC. Sensitivity analysis should be provided by omitting 
individuals with the highest weights. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000021547 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
