EMA/567567/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004837 
Camcevi (leuprorelin) 
An overview of Camcevi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Camcevi and what is it used for? 
Camcevi is a medicine used in adult men for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer that is 
‘hormone-dependent’, meaning that it responds to treatments that lower the level of the hormone 
testosterone. Camcevi is also used in combination with radiotherapy to treat locally advanced 
hormone-dependent prostate cancer and high-risk localised prostate cancer (this means that the 
cancer is likely to spread beyond the prostate gland to nearby tissues and become ‘locally advanced’) . 
Camcevi is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance but has a different formulation. The reference medicine for Camcevi is Eligard. 
Camcevi is available as a ready-to-use medicine in contrast with Eligard, which requires pre-mixing 
before it can be given to the patient. 
The active substance in Camcevi is leuprorelin. 
How is Camcevi used? 
Camcevi is available as prolonged-release suspension for injection in a pre-filled syringe. Prolonged-
release means that the active substance is released slowly over a six-month period after being 
injected. Injections are given under the skin. 
Camcevi can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be given by a healthcare 
professional experienced in using the medicine and under the supervision of a doctor experienced in 
monitoring the treatment of prostate cancer. 
For more information about using Camcevi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Camcevi work? 
Testosterone can make prostate cancer cells grow. When present continuously, the active substance in 
Camcevi, leuprorelin, reduces the amount of testosterone in the body by blocking the effects of a 
natural hormone called gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH is the first step in a system 
responsible for testosterone production. By blocking GnRH and thus reducing the level of testosterone, 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Camcevi slows down the growth of the cancer cells. When injected, Camcevi forms a gel under the skin 
that releases the active substance slowly over six months. 
What benefits of Camcevi have been shown in studies? 
The company provided data from the published literature on the benefits and risks of leuprorelin in the 
approved use. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Camcevi. They also presented 
results from a study which showed that treatment with Camcevi lowered the amount of testosterone to 
levels comparable to those previously reported for the reference medicine. This study included 137 
men with hormone-dependent prostate cancer who were given two doses of Camcevi 24 weeks apart. 
Four weeks after the first injection, 98.5% (135 out of 137) of patients experienced a decrease in 
testosterone to levels similar to those seen in men after chemical or surgical castration. Testosterone 
levels remained below castration levels during the 48-week treatment period in 97% (133 out of 137) 
patients. 
What are the risks associated with Camcevi? 
The most common side effect with Camcevi (which may affect more than 1 in 2 people) is the 
occurrence of mild or moderate hot flushes. Other side effects include nausea, malaise (feeling 
generally unwell), tiredness and irritation at the injection site. 
For the full list of side effects of Camcevi, see the package leaflet. 
Camcevi must not be used in patients whose testicles have been surgically removed, as sole treatment 
in patients with spinal cord compression or those whose cancer has metastasised (spread) to the 
spine. Camcevi must also not be used in patients allergic to the active substance, to any other 
ingredients or to other GnRH agonists (substances that attach to a GnRH receptor (target) and trigger 
an effect). 
Why is Camcevi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that in accordance with EU requirements, Camcevi has 
been shown to be comparable to Eligard. In addition, Camcevi’s ready-to-use formulation means it is 
easier to use. Therefore, the Agency decided that Camcevi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Camcevi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Camcevi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Camcevi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Camcevi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Camcevi 
Camcevi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 May 2022.  
Camcevi (leuprorelin)  
EMA/567567/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Camcevi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Camcevi. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
Camcevi (leuprorelin)  
EMA/567567/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
