London, 14 July 2004 
Product name: CANCIDAS 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/379/II/02 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Introduction 
Caspofungin  acetate  is  a  semi-synthetic  lipopeptide  compound  of  the  echinocandin  family  and 
represents a new class of antifungal agents (glucan synthesis inhibitors) that inhibits the synthesis of 
beta (1,3)-D-glucan an integral  component  of the  fungal  cell  wall. Caspofungin  MSD was granted  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances  on  24  October  2001,  indicated  in  the 
treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis  in  adults,  who  are  refractory  to  or  intolerant  of  amphotericin  B, 
lipid  formulations  of  amphotericin  B  and/or  itraconazole.  The  approved  dosage  is  a  single  70-mg 
loading dose on day 1, followed by 50 mg thereafter. Duration of treatment is not specified and is to 
be  based  upon  the  severity  of  the  patient’s  underlying  disease,  recovery  from  immmunosuppression 
and  clinical  response.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  has  committed  to  specific 
obligations  and  follow-up  measures.  Pursuant  to  article  13  (2)  of  Council  Regulation  (EEC)  No 
2309/93  and  part  4  G  of  the  Annex  I  to  Directive  2001/83/EC,  the  MAH  has  agreed  to  provide,  as 
requested by the CPMP, additional clinical data. These data will form the basis for a re-assessment of 
the benefit/risk ratio of Caspofungin MSD in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis.  
Caspofungin  has  also  been  given  a  Marketing  Authorisation  in  the  indication  salvage  treatment  of 
invasive aspergillosis in the  United States  on 29 January 2001 and in 20  further  countries including 
Canada,  Australia  and  Brazil.  In  addition,  caspofungin  has  recently  been  approved  for  the  primary 
treatment of eosophageal candidiasis (EC), and in some instances oropharyngeal candidiasis (OPC) in 
5 countries in South Americe and the United States. 
The application initially submitted by the MAH concerned a Type II variation (EMEA/H/C/379/II/02) 
to  extend  the  indication  to  the  treatment  of  “Invasive  candidiasis  (IC),  including  candidaemia  in 
neutropenic and non-neutropenic patients”. The recommended dose regimen was a single loading 70-
mg loading dose followed by 50  mg daily thereafter, administered by slow intravenous infusion over 
approximately  1  hour.  The  duration  of  treatment  was  to  be  based  upon  the  patient’s  clinical  and 
microbiological response, but in general therapy should be continued for at least 14 days after the last 
positive culture.  
2 Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
For  this  type  II  variation,  no  additional  part  IIIdata  has  been  submitted  by  the  MAH.  The  MAH 
referred to some new preclinical evaluations, however, the references included were already available 
for the prior applications. There  were some  new studies  with  caspofungin published in the scientific 
literature. The pharmacological/toxicological aspects of caspofungin  have been discussed in previous 
reports concerning use in invasive aspergillosis, as well as oropharyngeal and oesophageal candidiasis. 
The  usefulness of  caspofungin in  disseminated  candidiasis was previously studied in  various  animal 
survival  models  and  in  target  organ  assays  and  overall  good  activity  was  demonstrated.  In  most  of 
these studies animals were infected with strains of C. albicans, but some data on target organ kidney 
assays  from  studies  using  other  strains  of  Candida  were  also  available.  Published  data  in  knockout 
mice suggested also efficacy of caspofungin in vivo using strains of C. glabrata.  
Concerning  the  toxicity  of  caspofungin,  the  CPMP  concluded  that  the  proposed  posology  for  the 
present  indication  did  not  suggest  that  a  reconsideration  of  these  aspects  be  warranted.  From  a 
preclinical  point  of  view,  no  new  issue  have  been  identified.  Therefore,  the  CPMP  considered  that 
there was no preclinical objection for an extension of the indication of caspofungin to include IC. 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
2/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Clinical aspects 
3.1 Clinical pharmacology 
• 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  population  pharmacokinetics  analysis  for  Protocol  014  explored  the  potential  for  C1 hr,  C24 hr, 
C1 hr/MIC  and  C24 hr/MIC  to  predict  overall  (clinical  and  microbiologic  response)  treatment  outcome 
(favorable/unfavorable).    Subpopulations  of  patients  with  similar  infection  characteristics  were  also 
explored  in  a  series  of  secondary  analyses.  However,  the  CPMP  considered  that  none  of  the 
parameters examined was found to be a significant factor for predicting the overall treatment outcome. 
• 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  basic  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of  caspofungin  have  been  well  defined  in  previous 
applications  concerning  invasive  candidiasis.  The  present  file  completed  this  information  with  the 
results of: 
1.  A  repeated  study  of  long-term  disposition  of  radioactive  caspofungin,  extended  to  6  months 
follow-up.  These  data  confirmed  that  no  parental  drug  was  present  in  significant  concentration 
after  a  mean  of  6  days  postdose,  and  no  further  metabolites  were  identified.  Such  data  were 
required as a follow-up measure in the initial IA dossier. Therefore, they will be further analysed 
in the assessment of this commitment. 
2.  A Phase  I pharmacokinetic study  of single  doses  of  caspofungin  up to  210  mg, as  well  as  daily 
doses of 100 mg, suggesting little accumulation. These data were not directly related to the current 
dossier. 
3.  A  small  study  supporting  the  dose  adaptation  proposed  in  the  SPC  for  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate  hepatic  insufficiency  (i.e.,  no  adjustment  for  mild  insufficiency  and  a  decrease  in  the 
daily  dose  from  50  to  35  mg  for  moderate  insufficiency).  No  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
insufficiency were analysed. 
4.  Drug interaction pharmacokinetic studies with rifampin and nelfinavir. 
In patients already treated with rifampin, an increase in the daily dose of caspofungin, for instance 
to 70 mg instead of 50 mg, could be considered to achieve the same target plasma concentrations. 
However,  if  rifampin  was  started  during  caspofungin  treatment,  no  dose  adjustment  appeared 
necessary. Nelfinavir did not interact with caspofungin pharmacokinetics. 
The  drug  interaction  screen  performed  as  part  of  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  in  IC 
the  current 
patients  did  not  bring  any  new 
recommendation  to  increase  the  dose  of  caspofungin  with  concomitant  inducer  drugs should  be 
kept. 
information.  The  CPMP  concluded 
that 
5.  A population pharmacokinetic analysis in the pilot study P014.  
As  in  the  previous  IA  file,  the  population  pharmacokinetics  of  caspofungin  in  IC  patients  was 
based exclusively on time-averaged parameters (mean C1 hr and C24 hr from Day 3 to Day 14). This 
procedure  smoothed  out  some  of  the  high  variability  in  individual  plasma  concentrations,  but  it 
may have clouded the analysis of PK/PD relationship.  
Time-averaged  C1 hr  and  C24 hr  were  somewhat  lower  in  IC  patients  than  in  the  previous  IA and 
EC/OPC groups. The MAH suggested that the parallel decreases in C1  hr and C24  hr in IC patients 
compared  with  IA  and  EC/OPC  patients  and  healthy  subjects  were  due  to  an  increase  in  the 
apparent volume  of  distribution. Alteration in  caspofungin plasma protein binding in severely ill 
patients,  such  as  IC  patients  in  Protocol  014,  was  a  possible  explanation,  although  it  did  not  fit 
well with the higher plasma concentrations observed in IA patients, who were similarly ill. On the 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other hand, the septic nature of the infections in IC patients, which was more conspicuous than in 
IA  patients,  may  have  generated  a  greater  inflammatory  response  and  associated  increase  in 
vasopermeability and/or an enhanced binding of caspofungin to fungal organisms within the blood 
than in other patients. Both of these potential mechanisms could have lead to reduced caspofungin 
plasma concentrations in IC patients relative to other patients or healthy subjects.  
The  CPMP  nevertheless  felt  that  in  view  of  the  recent  determinations  of  the  free  fraction  of 
caspofungin in the plasma, the SPC (Section 5.2)  should be adapted to include the  full range of 
free fractions of caspofungin measured. The different evaluations of the fraction unbound may be 
relevant in some clinical situations. 
Finally,  the  CPMP  agreed  on  the  fact  that  the  reductions  in  caspofungin  concentrations  in  IC 
patients  relative  to  other  groups  of  patients/subjects  did  not  appear  to  be  clinically  meaningful, 
given  the  high  proportion  of  favourable  responses  obtained  with  caspofungin  treatment  and  the 
lack  of  statistically  significant  correlations  between  treatment  outcome  and  caspofungin 
concentrations in IC patients.  
Special populations: 
≥
Elderly (
of caspofungin. As a consequence, no dose adjustment was required. 
 65 years) patients have a ~40 % increase in plasma trough (but not peak) concentrations 
Heavier weight patients have decreased end-of-infusion and trough concentrations. Although this 
decrease  was  somewhat  less  than  observed  for  IA  and  EC/OPC  patients,  possibly  because 
caspofungin  plasma  concentrations  were  lower  in  IC  patients  than  the  other  two  categories,  an 
increase in daily dose from 50 to 70 mg was nevertheless recommended by the CPMP in patients 
weighing more than 80 kg, exactly as stated for the other categories of patients, for the benefit of 
optimal exposure. Section 5.2 of the SPC has therefore been amended to include a dose adjustment 
to 70 mg in invasive candidiasis patients weighing >80 kg.  
Dose finding: 
The selection of the caspofungin dose of 70 mg I.V. on Day 1 followed by 50 mg I.V. daily for the 
treatment of IC was exactly the same as for the treatment of IA. It was based on a target C24 hr of 
>1  µ g/ml,  and  on  data  from  2  dose-ranging  Phase  II  studies  involving  EC  and  OPC  patients 
(Protocols  003  and  004),  a  range  of  3  doses  (35,  50,  and  70  mg),  and  a  comparison  with 
amphotericin  B.  However,  due  to the  high  proportion  of  favourable  responses  in  these  EC/OPC 
patients, both with caspofungin and amphotericin B, this particular dose-finding process was not 
very sensitive. The MAH explained that the dose-finding studies were not performed in invasive 
candidiasis because of the severity of this disease. However, the dose selection based on Phase I-II 
studies in patients with oesophageal candidiasis may not have been optimal, since this is after all a 
mucosal disease which differed in several ways from a more invasive setting of Candida infection. 
Nevertheless, two  elements justified the use of a caspofungin dose of 50 mg IV daily after a 70-
mg loading dose on Day 1 in IC patients: 
- the confirmation of a high treatment response in all IC patients; 
- the fact that in the population pharmacokinetic study, no parameter (C1 hr, C24 hr, AUC, C1 hr:MIC, 
C24  hr:MIC)  was  found  to  significantly  predict  treatment  outcome  (not  even  in  any  clinically 
relevant subpopulation). 
• 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  relationship  of  caspofungin  in  IC  was  assessed  in  Protocol 
P014.  This  was  an  important  issue,  since  no  particular  plasma  trough  or  peak  concentration  of 
caspofungin  had  been  established  as  the  absolute  minimum  concentration  for  efficacy.  In  Protocol 
P014,  neither  end-of-infusion  nor  trough  concentrations  predicted  overall  treatment  outcome  in 
evaluable  IC  patients  (this  group  of  patients  has  an  80  %  proportion  of  favorable  outcomes  with 
caspofungin therapy). The MAH concluded that the range of concentrations obtained in Protocol 014 
fall near the top of the  concentration-response  curve,  where treatment response  had, at  most, only  a 
modest  concentration-dependency.  The  CPMP  acknowledged  that  even  when  using  more  sensitive 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
4/11 
 
 
 
 
measures  of  outcome,  such  as  time  to  negative  culture,  and/or  when  restricting  the  analysis  to  the 
MITT population, the plasma levels of caspofungin after daily 50-mg administrations, whether trough 
(C24  hr)  or  peak  (C1  hr)  concentrations,  did  not  appear  to  predict  the  treatment  outcome  of  invasive 
candidiasis (IC) in any significant way. Thus, the MAH’s suggestion was accepted.  
In  addition,  the  occurrence  of  adverse  experiences  in  IC  patients  was  not  increased  by  higher 
caspofungin plasma concentrations over the wide range of pharmacokinetic parameter values observed 
in Protocol 014. 
•  Microbiology 
g/ml.  For C. glabrata, the  MICs ranged between 0.25  and 2 
Overall 226 unique baseline isolates were collected from 211 of the 239 patients enrolled in the pivotal 
study. Only 45% of the 211 patients had an infection with C. albicans. The 3  most commonly noted 
non-albicans pathogens were C. parapsilosis (19.0%), C. tropicalis (16.1%) and C. glabrata (11.4%). 
The remainder of the patients  (8.5%) had infections with rarer Candida species  or  mixed infections. 
Outcomes by Candida species and MIC were performed to define spectrum of activity for caspofungin 
against the various Candida pathogens, the range of susceptibility patterns and MIC values predictive 
g/ml, with a MIC90 of 1 
of outcome. The caspofungin MICs for C. albicans ranged from 0.125 to >8 
µ
µ
g/ml. The 
g/ml,  with a  MIC90 of 2 
µ
g/ml, but 
caspofungin  MICs for C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, and C. krusei ranged  from 0.5 to >8 
the  MIC50  and/or  MIC90  were  generally  ≤2 
g/ml.  The  favourable  overall  response  rates  in  both 
treatment groups were similar and did not appear to vary either by Candida species or by MIC values, 
although there was a slightly lower response rate for infections caused by C. albicans as compared to 
those  caused  by  non-albicans  species.  There  was  thus  no  apparent  correlation  between  the  baseline 
MIC  values  for  caspofungin  and  the  overall  clinical  and  microbiological  outcomes,  and  therefore 
break-point  MIC  determinations  for  the  treatment  of  IC  could  not  be  established.  No  evidence  of 
resistance development against caspofungin was observed. 
µ
µ
µ
•  Conclusion 
The CPMP agreed on the dose of caspofungin in the treatment of invasive candidiasis which has been 
set at 50 mg daily (except in patients weighing >80 kg, where it should be 70 mg daily) after a loading 
dose of 70 mg. In the population pharmacokinetic study, no parameter (C1  hr, C24 hr, AUC, C1  hr:MIC, 
C24  hr:MIC)  was  found  to  significantly  predict  treatment  outcome.  The  free  fraction  of  caspofungin 
varied markedly between studies and this point has been mentioned in the SPC. 
3.2  Clinical efficacy 
The MAH presented efficacy data from a phase III invasive candidiasis study (Protocol 014) including 
a total  of 239  patients. This study  was  a  multicenter,  randomised, double blind  (and  in-house blind) 
study  comparing  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  caspofungin  to  amphotericin  B  (AmB) 
performed during Nov 1997 to July 2001. The study was powered to demonstrate the non-inferiority 
of  caspofungin to  AmB  with regards to  efficacy in  all patients  with IC and in  the subset of patients 
with candidemia. The study was also powered to assess the potential superiority of caspofungin versus 
AmB for a number of safety variables. 
The MAH also presented data from 11 patients with IC who were refractory to or intolerant of an IV 
AmB  formulation  (either  as  conventional  amphotericin  or  a  lipid  formulation)  enrolled  in  the 
compassionate  use  study  (Protocol  024/025).  The  purpose  of  the  interim  report  was  to  lend  further 
support  to  the  use  of  caspofungin  in  invasive  Candida  infections,  also  in  cases  where  available 
antifungal  regimens,  including  IV  AmB  formulations,  have  failed.  Patients  enrolled  in  this  study 
represented a difficult-to-treat population.  
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Clinical studies supporting caspofungin efficacy in invasive candidiasis 
Protocol/ 
[Ref.]/ 
(Short Title) 
Phase 
Major Entry Criteria 
Treatment 
Daily Doses 
(mg)/Duration (N†) 
Primary Efficacy 
Endpoints 
Efficacy in Candidiasis 
014  
[P014] 
(Phase III Invasive 
Candidiasis 
Study) 
024/025 
[P024C3] 
(Compassionate 
Use Study) 
III  Clinically and microbiologically 
documented cases of invasive 
candidiasis 
NA  Definite or probable Aspergillus 
infections; documented invasive 
candidiasis, oropharyngeal 
candidiasis, or Candida 
esophagitis in patients refractory 
to or intolerant of an 
amphotericin B formulation 
Caspofungin doses of 50 daily 
(following a 70-mg loading 
dose on Day 1) versus 
amphotericin B 0.6 to 1.0 
mg/kg daily for variable 
duration (at least 10 days and 
maximum of 28 days) (N=239) 
For invasive Candida infections, 
caspofungin 50 mg daily 
(following a 70-mg loading 
dose on Day 1) for variable 
duration (N=11) 
Overall response 
(clinical response 
and micro-
biological 
response) 
Resolution or 
clinically 
meaningful 
improvement in 
attributable 
symptoms 
†  N=Number of patients enrolled in each study. 
Entry  criteria:  Adults  >18  years  of  age  with  both  microbiological  and  clinical  evidence  of  invasive 
Candida infection were eligible. The microbiological criteria required at least 1 positive culture of a 
Candida species from blood or from another normally sterile body site obtained within 4 days of study 
entry.  Clinical  evidence  of  infection  included  either  presence  of  fever,  hypothermia,  hypotension  or 
other signs of inflammation from a site infected with Candida within 48 hours. Patients with infections 
that  had  prior  failed  antifungal  therapy  and  patients  who  received  greater  than  >2  days  of  prior 
antifungal  therapy  for  this  episode  of  IC  were  excluded.  Eye  exams  were  performed  on  all  patients 
prestudy and at predefined visits to assess the presence of Candida endophthalmitis. In patients with 
candidemia  blood  cultures  were  collected  twice  daily  until  negative  (at  48  hours).  Patients  were 
stratified by  the presence  of  neutropenia (ANC <500 or >500 µl) and by  APACHE II score  (≤20 or 
>20) and then randomised to receive either caspofungin (70 mg for 1 day followed by 50 mg/day) or 
amphotericin  B  (0.6  to  0.7  mg/kg/day  for  non-neutropenic  patients  and  0.7  to  1.0  mg/kg/day  for 
neutropenic patients). Patients were to be treated for 14 days after the last positive culture. IV study 
therapy was continued until clinical improvement and for >48 hours after the last positive culture. The 
min  and  max  duration  of  IV  therapy  was  10  and  28  days,  respectively.  On  Day  10  of  therapy,  the 
patients  were  evaluated  and  could  be  switched  to  oral  fluconazole  at  400  mg/day  to  complete  the 
treatment  course.  Patients  with  infections  caused  by  C.  krusei  or  C. glabrata  were  to  remain  on  IV 
study therapy.  
Efficacy endpoints: To be considered a favourable response the patients had to have both a favourable 
clinical response and a favourable microbiological response, this composite endpoint is referred to as 
the overall response. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of caspofungin patients with a 
favourable  overall  response  at  the  time  of  discontinuing  IV  therapy  compared  with  that  of  AmB 
patients. Secondary efficacy endpoints included assessment of the overall response at Day 10, end of 
IV  therapy,  end  of  all  antifungal  therapy  and  at  two  post-therapy  follow-up  visits  (2  week  and  6-8 
week).  Mortality  by  study  therapy  was  also  analysed.  The  individual  components  of  the  composite 
endpoint, clinical or  microbiological response, were also displayed for the end of IV therapy visit. A 
favourable  clinical  response  was  defined  as  resolution  of  all  signs  and  symptoms  related  to  the 
Candida infection. Clinical  failure was defined as persistence of signs and symptoms of infection. A 
favourable  microbiological  response,  eradication  or  presumed  eradication,  was  defined  as  having 
negative cultures from the original site of infection or no follow-up cultures in the setting of clinical 
and radiographic resolution.  
Safety endpoints: Predefined safety endpoints included comparison of the proportion of patients in the 
caspofungin  group  versus  those  in  the  amphotericin  B  group  who  experienced  nephrotoxicity, 
hypokalemia, an  infusion-related-related  AE, a drug-related  AE, or  who  discontinued therapy due to 
an drug-related AE. The nephrotoxicity assessment was the primary safety analysis. 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
6/11 
 
Statistical  planning:  A  modified  intention-to-treat  (MITT)  was  the  primary  analysis  and  included 
patients  who  met  the  definition  of  disease  and  received  at  least  1  dose  of  therapy  (n=224).  The 
supportive  analysis  included  Evaluable  Patients  (EP)  defined  as  patients  who  met  the  definition  of 
disease,  received  at  least  5  full  days  of  therapy  and  did  not  commit  any  major  protocol  violations 
(n=185). The overall efficacy response in the 2 treatment groups was compared at the end of IV study 
therapy  using a noninferiority  analysis. The  definition of  noninferiority stated that  (1) the two-sided 
95.6%  CI  for  the  difference  between  the  2  treatment  groups  for  the  favourable  overall  response 
(defined as the strata-adjusted caspofungin response minus the strata-adjusted AmB response) would 
include zero, and (2) the lower limit of the CI would not exceed -20.0%. Superiority of caspofungin 
over  AmB  would  be  concluded  if  the  lower  limit  of  the  two-sided  95.6%  CI  for  the  difference  in 
responses  was  above  0.  As  a  predefined  secondary  analysis,  a  separate  noninferiority  analysis  was 
performed  on  the  subset  of  patients  with  candidemia  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy  visit.  In  this  subset, 
Kaplan Meier estimates were also displayed for time to negative blood culture.  
Demographics: Altogether 239 (114 on caspofungin and 125 on AmB) received IV study therapy. The 
majority  of  the  patients  enrolled  were  men  (55.6%).  The  treatment  groups  were  comparable  with 
respect  to  gender,  racial  origin,  and  age.  A  similar  proportion  of  patients  in  both  treatment  groups 
(20%) were found to have high APACHE II scores (>20) in the pre-study period. A similar proportion 
of patients in both treatment groups, was noted to be neutropenic (total n=26) at baseline. Overall 184 
(77%)  patients  had  candidemia  alone,  with  the  percentages  in  each  group  being  comparable. 
Approximately 8% (n=19) of the patients had Candida peritonitis. The mean duration of study therapy 
was 11.8 days for caspofungin and 11.3 days for AmB. 
• 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
The selection of the caspofungin dose of 70 mg on day 1 followed by 50 mg daily for the treatment of 
IC  was  based  on  an  integration  of  previous  data  from  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  preclinical  studies, 
human PK analyses and the safety and efficacy results from two dose-ranging phase II EC and OPC 
studies  (P003,  P004).  The  loading  dose  of  caspofungin  70-mg  was  used  since  it  has  been  shown  to 
provide higher trough levels in the  early  critical stage of treatment and also to provide  a  more rapid 
achievement of steady state than the corresponding regimen without loading.  
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The study population in the invasive candidiasis study consisted of a heterogeneous patient population, 
all with critical illnesses but different risk factors for an invasive Candida infection. No other special 
populations were targeted. 
• 
Supportive studies 
The  Compassionate  use  study  (Protocol  024/025)  was  an  ongoing  study  enrolling  patients  with  IC 
(along with EC, OPC, or IA) who were refractory to or intolerant of an IV amphotericin formulation. 
Refractory  disease  was  defined  as  clinical  or  microbiological  progression  of  disease  or  lack  of 
improvement  despite  therapy  for  7  days  with  either  amphotericin  B  or  a  lipid  amphotericin 
formulation. Intolerance was defined as developing renal insufficiency (creatinine ≥2.5 mg/dl) or acute 
severe infusion-related toxicity while on amphotericin. The dosage regimen was the same as that in the 
IC study whereas duration of therapy was individualised based on the underlying disease and clinical 
response. The primary efficacy assessment was made at the end of IV therapy. 
The  results  from  11  patients  were  analysed.  The  sites  of  invasive  infection  varied:  3  patients  had 
chronic disseminated candidiasis (or hepatosplenic candidiasis), 1 patient had candidemia, and 1 had 
Candida  peritonitis.  Three  patients  had infections  of  the  urinary  system,  including  one  patient  each 
with  a  kidney  abscess,  recurrent  pyelonephritis,  and  a  complicated  bladder  infection.  Three  patients 
manifested multiple sites of infection.  
Nine of the patients were refractory to an amphotericin formulation. Eight of the 9 patients clinically 
refractory to an AmB formulation had received multiple antifungal agents (including azoles and 5-FC) 
either sequentially  or  concomitantly prior to entry into the study. All 8 patients had also failed prior 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
therapy with an azole. Two patients were only intolerant to prior therapy with an AmB formulation. A 
favourable  clinical  response  at  the  end  of  caspofungin  therapy  was  seen  in  8  (80.0%)  of  the  10 
evaluable patients. This included 4 patients who had a complete response and 4 patients with a partial 
response. The duration of caspofungin therapy was prolonged in these patients with a mean duration of 
32.3 days.  
• 
  Discussion and conclusions on efficacy 
To  extend the  indication  to  treatment  of  invasive  candidiasis,  the  applicant  submitted  1  new  pivotal 
phase III study, Protocol 014.   
The proportion of patients in the MITT analysis, the primary analysis, and in the EP analysis  with a 
favorable  response,  adjusted  for  strata,  at  the  discontinuation  of  IV  study  therapy,  the  primary 
endpoint, (except for the  follow-up data), and the  respective 95% CI for  each analysis and  observed 
difference, are summarized in the table below. 
Observed difference 
 (%)             (95%CI) 
Caspofungin 70 mg/50 mg 
N/m         (%)           (95%CI) 
Amphotericin B 0.6-1 mg/kg 
N/m         (%)           (95%CI) 
80/109      74.2         (66.0, 82.3) 
71/88        80.2         (72.3, 89.2) 
71/115       61.5         (52.6, 70.4)  12.7             (-0.7, 26.0) 
63/97         65.3         (55.7, 74.9)  15.4              (1.1, 29.7) 
Table: Proportion of patients with a favourable response and the difference between treatment groups  
Visit 
 End of IV study therapy 
Overall combined response 
MITT 
Evaluable patients 
Clinical response 
MITT 
Microbiological response 
MITT 
Overall response and relapse at  6-8 week follow-up  
MITT response 
Relapse  
Overall response by neutropenic stratum 
Neutropenic  
Non-neutropenic  
Overall response in candidemia 
MITT 
47/83         56.6         (45.9, 67.4)  47/99         47.5         (37.6, 57.4)  9.2                 (-5.4, 23.7) 
-2.5                (-12.1, 7,1) 
7/80            8.8           (2.5, 15.0) 
7/14           50.0         (22.8, 77.2)  4/10            40.0         (8.0, 72.0) 
73/95         76.8         (68.3, 85.4)  67/2 105     63.8        (54.6, 73.0)  13.0                (0.5, 25.5) 
66/92          72.5        (63.8, 81.5)  59/94           62.5        (52.7, 72.3)  10.0                 (-4.5, 24.5) 
92/109       84.4         (77.6, 91.2)  91/115       79:1         (71.7, 86.6)  5.3                  (-4.8, 15.4) 
71/115       61.7         (52.8, 70.7)  13.5               (1.5, 25.5) 
82/109      75.2         (67.1, 83.4) 
8/71           11.3         (3.9, 18.7) 
10                  (-30.0, 50.1) 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  results  of  the  MITT  and  EP  analyses  and  of  other  efficacy  variables 
were  consistent, with always a  numerically  higher success rate in the  caspofungin  group than in the 
amphotericin  B  group.  Nevertheless,  a  more  rational  delta  value  should  have  been  selected  for  this 
indication.  Delta  was  set  at  20%  and  should  have  been  smaller  as  specified  in  the  CPMP  Note  for 
Guidance on anti-infective agents.  
One of the main reasons for the difference in overall response between both treatment groups was due 
to  a  significant  difference  in  the  development  of  drug-related  adverse  experiences,  with  significant 
more toxicity in the amphotericin B group. The definition of failure  was thus apparently not entirely 
based  on  efficacy  variables  but  also  included  a safety  variable,  which  had  a  negative  impact  on  the 
amphotericin  B  outcome.  In  addition,  the  dosage  of  amphotericin  B  given  in  the  non-neutropenic 
patients was 0.6 to 0.7 mg/kg/day, which was rather low and might mean that certain patients in the 
amphotericin B treatment arm could have been underdosed. However, it was the CPMP’s opinion that 
all 
not  
probably  influence  outcome.  With  regard  to  amphotericin  B  underdosing,  the  CPMP  accepted  that 
only  few patients (8)  were truly  underdosed  (< 0.55  mg/kg/day),  and that among these 4  responded 
favourably  and  3  had  amphotericin  B-related  toxicity,  considering  that  the  MAH  has  accepted  to 
restrict the indication to non-neutropenic patients. Thus, the consequences of inadequate amphotericin 
B should not have biased the results in favour of caspofungin. 
therapy  were 
interruptions 
adequately 
temporary 
explained 
and 
did 
in 
Patients  were  stratified  by  the  presence  of  neutropenia  and  APACHE  II  score.  The  number  of 
neutropenic  patients  enrolled  in  this  study  was  considered  too  limited  to  draw  conclusions  on  the 
effectiveness  of  caspofungin  in  neutropenic  patients  (only  14  neutropenic  patients  received 
caspofungin).  Therefore,  the  CPMP  concluded  that  the  indication  initially  proposed  by  the  MAH 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
8/11 
 
 
 
 
  
should  be  restricted  to  “Invasive  Candidiasis  in  non-neutropenic  patients”.  Furthermore,  the  MAH 
commited to  obtain  more  data  on  caspofungin in the  treatment  of  neutropenic  patients by providing 
results from an ongoing prospective, randomised, double-blind study assessing the use of caspofungin 
versus liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) for the empirical treatment of patients with persistent 
fever and neutropenia despite antibiotic therapy (Protocol 026).  
A separate non-inferiority analysis was also performed in a subset of patients with candidaemia, which 
consisted  of  80%  of  the  overall  invasive  candidiasis  population.  Results  were  very  similar  to  the 
results in the overall invasive candidiasis population.  
Efficacy  data  in  patients  with  non-blood  sites  of  infection  were  very  limited  (20%  of  the  overall 
invasive  candidiasis population  with an  overall  number  of 43 patients)  and although  results in these 
patients  seemed  quite  promising,  they  were  too  limited  to  draw  robust  conclusions.  Therefore,  the 
CPMP requested the MAH to commit to collect and present more data in patients with non-blood sites 
of Candida infections. 
Patients with Candida endocarditis, osteomyelitis, or meningitis were excluded from this study, since 
these infections often need prolonged treatment, sometimes combined with surgical interventions. As a 
result, there were no data on long-term treatment with caspofungin for these types of invasive Candida 
infections. Follow-up data for all enrolled patients were only  available for up to 6- to 8-weeks post-
therapy,  which is  rather limited since late relapses  could  occur after this time period. Therefore, the 
CPMP  requested  the  MAH  that,  due  to  the  relapsing/recurring  nature  of  invasive  candidiasis,  to 
continue collecting data on more patients at 3 months or more post-therapy. 
Finally,  patients  were  frequently  switched  to  oral  fluconazole  to  finish  their  treatment.  This  is 
adequately addressed in the SPC. 
3.3  Clinical safety  
• 
Patient exposure 
In the prior applications for invasive aspergillosis and localized candidiasis (EC and OPC), safety data 
of 631 patients and subjects treated with caspofungin were submitted, supplemented with the serious 
adverse experiences collected in the Merck Worldwide Adverse Experience System (WAES) database 
in another 280 patients treated with caspofungin in ongoing clinical pharmacology and clinical studies.   
In this variation, the MAH submitted CRF data from another 245 patients and subjects enrolled in 5 
clinical pharmacology studies and 2 clinical studies, enlarging the safety database up to a total of 876 
patients.  Serious  adverse  experiences  since  the  cut  off  date  for  the  localized  candidiasis  application 
collected in the WAES database provided further safety data in approximately 300 patients enrolled in 
3  ongoing  open-label  and  1  ongoing  blinded  study.  There  were  also  53  postmarketing  adverse 
experience reports submitted. 
• 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Consistent with the initial applications, the most common drug-related clinical adverse experiences in 
these  supplemental  studies  included  fever/chills,  phlebitis/infused  vein  complication,  vomiting  and 
headache.  Most of them were mild and very few of them led to discontinuation of therapy.   
The pivotal invasive candidiasis study allowed for a comparison of the safety of caspofungin to that of 
amphotericin  B.  Fewer  patients  on  caspofungin  than  on  amphotericin  B  developed  a  drug-related 
adverse experience and discontinued for any drug-related (clinical or laboratory) adverse experience. 
Caspofungin  was also associated  with significantly  fewer  cases  of  nephrotoxicity,  hypokalemia,  and 
systemic  infusion-related  adverse  events  than  amphotericin  B.  This  was  not  completely  unexpected 
when taking into account the toxicity profile of amphotericin B. Toxicity was indeed one of the main 
reasons for the difference observed in the overall responses between both treatment groups. 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
9/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some  of  the  previously  identified  adverse  events  associated  with  caspofungin  therapy  occurred  at 
somewhat higher frequencies in the IC trial and the SPC has been amended accordingly. 
Although  no  new  cases  of  anaphylaxis  were  reported  in  this  submission,  other  histamine-mediated 
symptoms like rash, flushing, bronchospasm, etc have been identified in a number of cases. Therefore, 
bronchospasm have been added in the SPC. Although most of these adverse experiences were mild in 
intensity, vigilance should remain, considering the potential seriousness of hypersensitivity reactions.  
No new controlled data were provided on the long-term safety of caspofungin. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Decreased serum potassium, increased alkaline phosphatase, increased AST and increased ALT were 
the most frequently reported drug-related laboratory adverse experiences, which in most cases did not 
limit therapy.   
• 
Safety in special populations 
In  the  pharmacological  trial  Protocol  036  it  was  demonstrated  that  higher  doses  of  caspofungin,  
100 mg for 3 weeks, in general was well tolerated in healthy subjects, although the rate of infusion-
related AEs was increased.  
In Protocol 030, including patients with mild/moderate hepatic insufficiency, no hepatotoxic reactions 
or  other  serious  AEs  occurred  in  association  with  administration  of  caspofungin.  There  was 
nevertheless an increased incidence of infusion site related adverse experiences noted in subjects with 
hepatic insufficiency. 
• 
Conclusions on safety 
The safety profile of caspofungin remained globally favourable. The occurrence of bronchospasm has 
been added to the list of existing adverse reactions. 
 4 
Conclusion 
The CPMP agreed on the dose of caspofungin in the treatment of invasive candidiasis which has been 
set at 50 mg daily (except in patients weighing >80 kg, where it should be 70 mg daily) after a loading 
dose of 70 mg. In the population pharmacokinetic study, no parameter (C1  hr, C24 hr, AUC, C1  hr:MIC, 
C24  hr:MIC)  was  found  to  significantly  predict  treatment  outcome.  The  free  fraction  of  caspofungin 
varied markedly between studies and this point has been mentioned in the SPC. 
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  efficacy  of  caspofungin  in  invasive  candidiasis  was  reasonably  well 
demonstrated  by  comparison  with  the  standard  therapy  amphotericin  B.  However,  in  the  clinical 
studies the number of cases of neutropenic patients was too low to assert the efficacy of caspofungin 
for invasive candidiasis in such patients. Due to the importance and specificity of this subpopulation, 
the requested indication has been restricted to “Invasive Candidiasis in non-neutropenic patients”.  
The CPMP concluded that the safety profile of caspofungin remained globally favourable.  
Therefore, the CPMP considered that the overall benefit-risk ratio of caspofungin in the treatment of 
invasive  candidiasis  (IC)  was  favourable,  and  that  a  marketing  authorisation  may  thus  be  granted, 
provided that the MAH commited to the following follow-up measures: 
1.  Collect more data in neutropenic patients by submitting the study report of protocol 026 to the 
CPMP by the end of 2003. 
2.  Collect  and  present  more  data  in  patients  with  non-blood  sites  of  Candida  infections,  and 
propose a timetable to this aim. Due to the relapsing/recurring nature of invasive candidiasis, 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  continue  collecting  data  on  more patients at 3  months or  more post-therapy and present a 
strategy to this aim. 
III. 
 CONCLUSION 
The CPMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  reflected  into  the  Package  Leaflet, 
based on the observations and the appropriate conclusions.  
The CPMP adopted on 21 November 2002 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms 
of the Community Marketing Authorisation. 
Caspofungin MSD-H-379-II-02 
11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
