EMA/480068/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000379 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cancidas 
caspofungin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cancidas. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Cancidas. 
For practical information about using Cancidas, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Cancidas and what is it used for? 
Cancidas is an antifungal medicine used to treat the following fungal infections in adults and children: 
• 
• 
• 
invasive candidiasis (an infection caused by Candida). ‘Invasive’ means that the infection has 
spread into the blood; 
invasive aspergillosis (an infection caused by Aspergillus) when the patient does not respond to or 
does not tolerate amphotericin B or itraconazole (other antifungal medicines); 
suspected fungal infections (such as due to Candida or Aspergillus) when the patient is feverish 
and has low white blood cell counts. This is known as ‘empirical treatment’, which means that the 
doctor starts treatment based on an observation of the patient before confirming that the patient 
has the infection. 
Cancidas contains the active substance caspofungin 
How is Cancidas used? 
Cancidas treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the management of invasive 
fungal infections.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Cancidas is a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. It is given once a 
day by infusion lasting about one hour. In adults, treatment starts with a 70 mg on the first day, 
followed by a daily dose of 50 mg, or 70 mg if the patient weighs more than 80 kg. A lower dose may 
be necessary in adults who have moderate problems with their liver. 
In patients between 12 months and 17 years of age, the dose is calculated using the child’s height and 
weight. Cancidas should be used with care in children below 12 months of age, because it has not been 
studied sufficiently in this age group. 
Treatment is continued for up to two weeks after the infection has been cured. The medicine can only 
be obtained with a prescription.  
How does Cancidas work? 
The active substance in Cancidas, caspofungin, belongs to a group of antifungal medicines known as 
‘echinocandins’. It works by interfering with the production of a component of the fungal cell wall called 
‘glucan polysaccharide’, which is necessary for the fungus to continue living and growing. Fungal cells 
treated with Cancidas have incomplete or defective cell walls, making them fragile and unable to grow. 
The list of fungi against which Cancidas is active can be found in the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
What benefits of Cancidas have been shown in studies? 
Studies show that Cancidas treatment can lead to favourable responses in patients with fungal 
infections, including improvement of symptoms and the clearing of fungus from patient’s body. 
In a study of 239 adults with invasive candidiasis, 73% of the adults treated with Cancidas who could 
be assessed had a favourable response (80 out of 109), compared with 62% of the adults treated with 
amphotericin B (71 out of 115). 
In an invasive aspergillosis study involving 69 adults, 41% had a favourable response to Cancidas at 
the end of the study (26 out of 63). Of the adults who did not respond to other treatments, 36% 
responded to Cancidas (19 out of 53). Of those who did not tolerate other treatments, 70% responded 
to Cancidas (7 out of 10). 
Similar responses were seen in a study in 49 children and adolescents with either invasive candidiasis 
or invasive aspergillosis: 50% of those with invasive candidiasis (5 out of 10) and 81% of those with 
invasive aspergillosis (30 out of 37) responded to Cancidas. 
Finally, in 2 studies of patients with suspected fungal infection who were treated empirically, Cancidas 
was as effective as amphotericin B. In one of studies involving around 1,000 adults, 34% of patients 
had a favourable response with either Cancidas or amphotericin B  Similar results were seen in the 
second study, which involved 82 children aged between two and 17 years. 
What are the risks associated with Cancidas? 
The most common side effects with Cancidas in adults (which may affect up to 1 in 100 people) are 
reduced levels of haemoglobin or red blood cells, reduced white blood cell count, low levels of 
potassium in the blood, headache, inflammation of the veins, shortness of breath, nausea, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, raised levels of liver enzymes and bilirubin (which may indicate liver problems), rash, 
itching, redness of skin, excessive sweating, joint pain, fever, chills, itching at injection site, and 
reduced levels of albumin, a protein in the blood. 
Cancidas  
EMA/480068/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The most common side effect in children is fever and this occurs in more than 1 patient in 10. For the 
full list of all side effects reported with Cancidas in adults and children, see the Package Leaflet. 
Why is Cancidas approved? 
The CHMP decided that evidence form the studies with Cancidas show that the medicines benefits are 
greater than its risks for the treatment of invasive candidiasis or aspergillosis, and for empirical 
therapy for presumed fungal infections, in adults or children. The Committee therefore recommended 
that Cancidas be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cancidas? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cancidas have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Cancidas  
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Caspofungin MSD on 24 October 2001. The name of the medicine was changed to Cancidas on 9 April 
2003.  
The full EPAR for Cancidas can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Cancidas, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2016. 
Cancidas  
EMA/480068/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
