ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
Each vial contains 50 mg caspofungin (as acetate). 
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
Each vial contains 70 mg caspofungin (as acetate).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion.
Before reconstitution, the powder is a white to off-white-compact, powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
• 
• 
• 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult or paediatric patients.
Treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adult or paediatric patients who are refractory to or
intolerant of amphotericin B, lipid formulations of amphotericin B and/or itraconazole.
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of
7 days of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy.
Empirical therapy for presumed fungal infections (such as Candida or Aspergillus) in febrile,
neutropaenic adult or paediatric patients.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Caspofungin should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of invasive fungal
infections.
Posology
Adult patients
A single 70 mg loading dose should be administered on Day-1, followed by 50 mg daily thereafter. In
patients weighing more than 80 kg, after the initial 70 mg loading dose, caspofungin 70 mg daily is
recommended (see section 5.2). No dosage adjustment is necessary based on gender or race (see
section 5.2).
Paediatric patients (12 months to 17 years)
In paediatric patients (12 months to 17 years of age), dosing should be based on the patient’s body
surface area (see Instructions for Use in Paediatric Patients, Mosteller1 Formula). For all indications, a
single 70-mg/m2 loading dose (not to exceed an actual dose of 70 mg) should be administered on
Day 1, followed by 50 mg/m2 daily thereafter (not to exceed an actual dose of 70 mg daily). If the
50-mg/m2 daily dose is well tolerated but does not provide an adequate clinical response, the daily
dose can be increased to 70 mg/m2 daily (not to exceed an actual daily dose of 70 mg). 
1  Mosteller RD: Simplified Calculation of Body Surface Area. N Engl J Med 1987 Oct 22;317(17):1098 (letter)
2
The safety and efficacy of caspofungin have not been sufficiently studied in clinical trials involving
neonates and infants below 12 months of age. Caution is advised when treating this age group. Limited
data suggest that caspofungin at 25 mg/m2 daily in neonates and infants (less than 3 months of age)
and 50 mg/m2 daily in young children (3 to 11 months of age) can be considered (see section 5.2).
Duration of treatment
Duration of empirical therapy should be based on the patient’s clinical response. Therapy should be
continued until up to 72 hours after resolution of neutropaenia (ANC≥500). Patients found to have a
fungal infection should be treated for a minimum of 14 days and treatment should continue for at least
7 days after both neutropaenia and clinical symptoms are resolved.
Duration of treatment of invasive candidiasis should be based upon the patient’s clinical and
microbiological response. After signs and symptoms of invasive candidiasis have improved and
cultures have become negative, a switch to oral antifungal therapy may be considered. In general,
antifungal therapy should continue for at least 14 days after the last positive culture.
Duration of treatment of invasive aspergillosis is determined on a case by case basis and should be
based upon the severity of the patient’s underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and
clinical response. In general, treatment should continue for at least 7 days after resolution of
symptoms.
The safety information on treatment durations longer than 4 weeks is limited. However, available data
suggest that caspofungin continues to be well tolerated with longer courses of therapy (up to 162 days
in adult patients and up to 87 days in paediatric patients).
Special populations
Elderly patients
In elderly patients (65 years of age or more), the area under the curve (AUC) is increased by
approximately 30 %. However, no systematic dosage adjustment is required. There is limited
treatment experience in patients 65 years of age and older (see section 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dosage adjustment is necessary based on renal impairment (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
For adult patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5 to 6), no dosage adjustment is
needed. For adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7 to 9), caspofungin
35 mg daily is recommended based upon pharmacokinetic data. An initial 70 mg loading dose should
be administered on Day-1. There is no clinical experience in adult patients with severe hepatic
impairment (Child-Pugh score greater than 9) and in paediatric patients with any degree of hepatic
impairment (see section 4.4).
Co-administration with inducers of metabolic enzymes
Limited data suggest that an increase in the daily dose of caspofungin to 70 mg, following the 70 mg
loading dose, should be considered when co-administering caspofungin in adult patients with certain
inducers of metabolic enzymes (see section 4.5). When caspofungin is co-administered to paediatric
patients (12 months to 17 years of age) with these same inducers of metabolic enzymes (see
section 4.5), a caspofungin dose of 70-mg/m2 daily (not to exceed an actual daily dose of 70 mg)
should be considered.
Method of administration
After reconstitution and dilution, the solution should be administered by slow intravenous infusion
over approximately 1 hour. For reconstitution directions see section 6.6.
Both 70 mg and 50 mg vials are available.
Caspofungin should be given as a single daily infusion.
3
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Anaphylaxis has been reported during administration of caspofungin. If this occurs, caspofungin
should be discontinued and appropriate treatment administered. Possibly histamine-mediated adverse
reactions, including rash, facial swelling, angioedema, pruritus, sensation of warmth, or bronchospasm
have been reported and may require discontinuation and/or administration of appropriate treatment. 
Limited data suggest that less common non-Candida yeasts and non-Aspergillus moulds are not
covered by caspofungin. The efficacy of caspofungin against these fungal pathogens has not been
established.
Concomitant use of caspofungin with cyclosporin has been evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and
in adult patients. Some healthy adult volunteers who received two 3 mg/kg doses of cyclosporin with
caspofungin showed transient increases in alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase
(AST) of less than or equal to 3-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) that resolved with
discontinuation of the treatment. In a retrospective study of 40 patients treated during marketed use
with caspofungin and cyclosporin for 1 to 290 days (median 17.5 days), no serious hepatic adverse
reactions were noted. These data suggest that caspofungin can be used in patients receiving
cyclosporin when the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk. Close monitoring of liver enzymes
should be considered if caspofungin and cyclosporin are used concomitantly.
In adult patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, the AUC is increased about 20 % and
75 %, respectively. A reduction of the daily dose to 35 mg is recommended for adults with moderate
hepatic impairment. There is no clinical experience in adults with severe hepatic impairment or in
paediatric patients with any degree of hepatic impairment. A higher exposure than in moderate hepatic
impairment is expected and caspofungin should be used with caution in these patients (see sections 4.2
and 5.2).
Laboratory abnormalities in liver function tests have been seen in healthy volunteers and adult and
paediatric patients treated with caspofungin. In some adult and paediatric patients with serious
underlying conditions who were receiving multiple concomitant medications with caspofungin, cases
of clinically significant hepatic dysfunction, hepatitis and hepatic failure have been reported; a causal
relationship to caspofungin has not been established. Patients who develop abnormal liver function
tests during caspofungin therapy should be monitored for evidence of worsening hepatic function and
the risk/benefit of continuing caspofungin therapy should be re-evaluated.
Cases of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been reported
after post-marketing use of caspofungin. Caution should apply in patients with history of allergic skin
reaction (see section 4.8).
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Studies in vitro show that caspofungin is not an inhibitor of any enzyme in the cytochrome P450
(CYP) system. In clinical studies, caspofungin did not induce the CYP3A4 metabolism of other
substances. Caspofungin is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein and is a poor substrate for cytochrome
P450 enzymes. However, caspofungin has been shown to interact with other medicinal products in
pharmacological and clinical studies (see below).
4
In two clinical studies performed in healthy adult subjects, cyclosporin A (one 4 mg/kg dose or two
3 mg/kg doses 12 hours apart) increased the AUC of caspofungin by approximately 35 %. These AUC
increases are probably due to reduced uptake of caspofungin by the liver. Caspofungin did not increase
the plasma levels of cyclosporin. There were transient increases in liver ALT and AST of less than or
equal to 3-fold the upper limit of normal (ULN) when caspofungin and cyclosporin were
co-administered, that resolved with discontinuation of the medicinal products. In a retrospective study
of 40 patients treated during marketed use with caspofungin and cyclosporin for 1 to 290 days (median
17.5 days), no serious hepatic adverse reactions were noted (see section 4.4). Close monitoring of liver
enzymes should be considered if the two medicinal products are used concomitantly.
Caspofungin reduced the trough concentration of tacrolimus by 26 % in healthy adult volunteers. For
patients receiving both therapies, standard monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations and
appropriate tacrolimus dosage adjustments are mandatory. 
Clinical studies in healthy adult volunteers show that the pharmacokinetics of caspofungin are not
altered to a clinically relevant extent by itraconazole, amphotericin B, mycophenolate, nelfinavir, or
tacrolimus. Caspofungin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of amphotericin B, itraconazole,
rifampicin or mycophenolate mofetil. Although safety data are limited it appears that no special
precautions are needed when amphotericin B, itraconazole, nelfinavir or mycophenolate mofetil are
co-administered with caspofungin.
Rifampicin caused a 60 % increase in AUC and 170 % increase in trough concentration of
caspofungin on the first day of co-administration when both medicinal products were initiated together
in healthy adult volunteers. Caspofungin trough levels gradually decreased upon repeated
administration. After two weeks’ administration rifampicin had limited effect on AUC, but trough
levels were 30 % lower than in adult subjects who received caspofungin alone. The mechanism of
interaction could possibly be due to an initial inhibition and subsequent induction of transport proteins.
A similar effect could be expected for other medicinal products that induce metabolic enzymes.
Limited data from population pharmacokinetics studies indicate that concomitant use of caspofungin
with the inducers efavirenz, nevirapine, rifampicin, dexamethasone, phenytoin, or carbamazepine may
result in a decrease in caspofungin AUC. When co-administering inducers of metabolic enzymes, an
increase in the daily dose of caspofungin to 70 mg, following the 70 mg loading dose, should be
considered in adult patients (see section 4.2).
All adult drug-drug interaction studies described above were conducted at a 50 or 70 mg daily
caspofungin dose. The interaction of higher doses of caspofungin with other medicinal products has
not been formally studied.
In paediatric patients, results from regression analyses of pharmacokinetic data suggest that
co-administration of dexamethasone with caspofungin may result in clinically meaningful reductions
in caspofungin trough concentrations. This finding may indicate that paediatric patients will have
similar reductions with inducers as seen in adults. When caspofungin is co-administered to paediatric
patients (12 months to 17 years of age) with inducers of drug clearance, such as rifampicin, efavirenz,
nevirapine, phenytoin, dexamethasone, or carbamazepine, a caspofungin dose of 70-mg/m2 daily (not
to exceed an actual daily dose of 70 mg) should be considered.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no or limited data from the use of caspofungin in pregnant women. Caspofungin should not
be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. Animal studies have shown developmental toxicity
(see section 5.3). Caspofungin has been shown to cross the placental barrier in animal studies. 
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether caspofungin is excreted in human milk. Available pharmacodynamic/
toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of caspofungin in milk. Women receiving
caspofungin should not breast-feed.
5
Fertility
For caspofungin, there were no effects on fertility in studies conducted in male and female rats (see
section 5.3). There are no clinical data for caspofungin to assess its impact on fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Hypersensitivity reactions (anaphylaxis and possibly histamine-mediated adverse reactions) have been
reported (see section 4.4).
Also reported in patients with invasive aspergillosis were pulmonary oedema, adult respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS), and radiographic infiltrates.
Adult patients
In clinical studies, 1,865 adult individuals received single or multiple doses of caspofungin:
564 febrile neutropaenic patients (empirical therapy study), 382 patients with invasive candidiasis,
228 patients with invasive aspergillosis, 297 patients with localised Candida infections, and
394 individuals enrolled in Phase I studies. In the empirical therapy study patients had received
chemotherapy for malignancy or had undergone hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (including
39 allogeneic transplantations). In the studies involving patients with documented Candida infections,
the majority of the patients with invasive Candida infections had serious underlying medical
conditions (e.g., haematologic or other malignancy, recent major surgery, HIV) requiring multiple
concomitant medications. Patients in the non-comparative Aspergillus study often had serious
predisposing medical conditions (e.g., bone marrow or peripheral stem cell transplants, haematologic
malignancy, solid tumours or organ transplants) requiring multiple concomitant medications.
Phlebitis was a commonly reported local injection-site adverse reaction in all patient populations.
Other local reactions included erythema, pain/tenderness, itching, discharge, and a burning sensation. 
Reported clinical and laboratory abnormalities among all adults treated with caspofungin (total 1,780)
were typically mild and rarely led to discontinuation.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions were reported during clinical studies and/or post-marketing use:
System Organ
Class
Common
(≥1/100 to
<1/10)
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100)
Not known
(cannot be
estimated
from
available
data)
Blood and
lymphatic system
disorders
Metabolism and
nutrition disorders
haemoglobin
decreased,
haematocrit
decreased, white
blood cell count
decreased
hypokalemia
anaemia, thrombocytopaenia,
coagulopathy, leukopaenia, eosinophil
count increased, platelet count decreased,
platelet count increased, lymphocyte count
decreased, white blood cell count
increased, neutrophil count decreased
fluid overload, hypomagnesaemia,
anorexia, electrolyte imbalance,
hyperglycaemia, hypocalcaemia, metabolic
acidosis
6
System Organ
Class
Common
(≥1/100 to
<1/10)
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100)
Not known
(cannot be
estimated
from
available
data)
anxiety, disorientation, insomnia
dizziness, dysgeusia, paraesthesia, 
somnolence, tremor, hypoaesthesia
ocular icterus, vision blurred, eyelid 
oedema, lacrimation increased
palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmia, atrial 
fibrillation, cardiac failure congestive
thrombophlebitis, flushing, hot flush, 
hypertension, hypotension
nasal congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain, 
tachypnoea, bronchospasm, cough,
dyspnoea paroxysmal nocturnal, hypoxia,
rales, wheezing
abdominal pain, abdominal pain upper, dry 
mouth, dyspepsia, stomach discomfort,
abdominal distension, ascites, constipation,
dysphagia, flatulence
cholestasis, hepatomegaly, 
hyperbilirubinaemia, jaundice, hepatic
function abnormal, hepatotoxicity, liver
disorder, gamma-glutamyltransferase
increased
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and
mediastinal
disorders
Gastrointestinal
disorders
Hepatobiliary
disorders
headache
phlebitis
dyspnoea
nausea,
diarrhoea,
vomiting
elevated liver
values (alanine
aminotransferase,
aspartate
aminotransferase,
blood alkaline
phosphatase,
bilirubin
conjugated,
blood bilirubin)
Skin and
subcutaneous
tissue disorders
rash, pruritus,
erythema,
hyperhidrosis
erythema multiforme, rash macular, rash
maculo-papular, rash pruritic, urticaria,
dermatitis allergic, pruritus generalised,
rash erythematous, rash generalised, rash
morbilliform, skin lesion
Toxic
epidermal
necrolysis and
Stevens-
Johnson
syndrome (see
section 4.4)
Musculoskeletal 
and connective
tissue disorders
Renal and urinary 
disorders
arthralgia
back pain, pain in extremity, bone pain,
muscular weakness, myalgia
renal failure, renal failure acute 
7
System Organ
Class
Common
(≥1/100 to
<1/10)
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100)
Not known
(cannot be
estimated
from
available
data)
General disorders
and
administration site
conditions
pyrexia, chills,
infusion-site
pruritus
Investigations 
blood potassium
decreased, blood
albumin
decreased
pain, catheter site pain, fatigue, feeling
cold, feeling hot, infusion site erythema,
infusion site induration, infusion site pain,
infusion site swelling, injection site
phlebitis, oedema peripheral, tenderness,
chest discomfort, chest pain, face oedema,
feeling of body temperature change,
induration, infusion site extravasation,
infusion site irritation, infusion site
phlebitis, infusion site rash, infusion site
urticaria, injection site erythema, injection
site oedema, injection site pain, injection
site swelling, malaise, oedema
blood creatinine increased, red blood cells
urine positive, protein total decreased,
protein urine present, prothrombin time
prolonged, prothrombin time shortened,
blood sodium decreased, blood sodium
increased, blood calcium decreased, blood
calcium increased, blood chloride
decreased, blood glucose increased, blood
magnesium decreased, blood phosphorus
decreased, blood phosphorus increased,
blood urea increased, activated partial
thromboplastin time prolonged, blood
bicarbonate decreased, blood chloride
increased, blood potassium increased,
blood pressure increased, blood uric acid
decreased, blood urine present, breath
sounds abnormal, carbon dioxide
decreased, immunosuppressant drug level
increased, international normalised ratio
increased, urinary casts, white blood cells
urine positive, and pH urine increased.
Caspofungin has also been evaluated at 150 mg daily (for up to 51 days) in 100 adult patients (see
section 5.1). The study compared caspofungin at 50 mg daily (following a 70-mg loading dose on
Day 1) versus 150 mg daily in the treatment of invasive candidiasis. In this group of patients, the
safety of caspofungin at this higher dose appeared generally similar to patients receiving the 50-mg
daily dose of caspofungin. The proportion of patients with a serious drug-related adverse reaction or a
drug-related adverse reaction leading to caspofungin discontinuation was comparable in the
2 treatment groups.
Paediatric Patients
Data from 5 clinical studies completed in 171 paediatric patients suggest that the overall incidence of
clinical adverse experiences (26.3 %; 95 % CI -19.9, 33.6) is not worse than reported for adults treated
with caspofungin (43.1 %; 95 % CI -40.0, 46.2). However, paediatric patients probably have a
different adverse event profile compared to adult patients. The most common drug-related clinical
adverse experiences reported in paediatric patients treated with caspofungin were pyrexia (11.7 %),
rash (4.7 %) and headache (2.9 %).
8
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions were reported:
System Organ Class 
Very
common
(≥1/10)
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Hepatobiliary disorders
Skin and subcutaneous
tissue disorders
General disorders and 
administration site
conditions
Investigations
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10)
eosinophil count increased
headache
tachycardia
flushing, hypotension
elevated liver enzyme levels (AST, ALT)
rash, pruritus
fever
chills, catheter site pain
decreased potassium, hypomagnesemia, increased
glucose, decreased phosphorus, and increased
phosphorus
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
Inadvertent administration of up to 400 mg of caspofungin in one day has been reported. These
occurrences did not result in clinically important adverse reactions. Caspofungin is not dialysable.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antimycotics for systemic use, ATC Code: J02AX04
Mechanism of action
Caspofungin acetate is a semi-synthetic lipopeptide (echinocandin) compound synthesised from a
fermentation product of Glarea lozoyensis. Caspofungin acetate inhibits the synthesis of
beta (1,3)-D-glucan, an essential component of the cell wall of many filamentous fungi and yeast.
Beta (1,3)-D-glucan is not present in mammalian cells.
Fungicidal activity with caspofungin has been demonstrated against Candida yeasts. Studies in vitro
and in vivo demonstrate that exposure of Aspergillus to caspofungin results in lysis and death of
hyphal apical tips and branch points where cell growth and division occur.
Pharmacodynamic effects
Caspofungin has in vitro activity against Aspergillus species (Aspergillus fumigatus [N = 75],
Aspergillus flavus [N = 111], Aspergillus niger [N = 31], Aspergillus nidulans [N = 8], Aspergillus
terreus [N = 52], and Aspergillus candidus [N = 3]). Caspofungin also has in vitro activity against
Candida species (Candida albicans [N = 1,032], Candida dubliniensis [N = 100], Candida glabrata
[N = 151], Candida guilliermondii [N = 67], Candida kefyr [N = 62], Candida krusei [N = 147],
Candida lipolytica [N = 20], Candida lusitaniae [N = 80], Candida parapsilosis [N = 215], Candida
9
 
 
 
 
 
rugosa [N = 1], and Candida tropicalis [N = 258]), including isolates with multiple resistance
transport mutations and those with acquired or intrinsic resistance to fluconazole, amphotericin B, and
5-flucytosine. Susceptibility testing was performed according to a modification of both the Clinical
and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI, formerly known as the National Committee for Clinical
Laboratory Standards [NCCLS]) method M38-A2 (for Aspergillus species) and method M27-A3 (for
Candida species). 
Standardised techniques for susceptibility testing have been established for yeasts by EUCAST.
EUCAST breakpoints have not yet been established for caspofungin, due to significant
inter-laboratory variation in MIC ranges for caspofungin. In lieu of breakpoints, Candida isolates that
are susceptible to anidulafungin as well as micafungin should be considered susceptible to
caspofungin. Similarly, C. parapsilosis isolates intermediate to anidulafungin and micafungin can be
regarded intermediate to caspofungin.
Mechanism of resistance
Isolates of Candida with reduced susceptibility to caspofungin have been identified in a small number
of patients during treatment (MICs for caspofungin >2 mg/L (4- to 30-fold MIC increases) have been
reported using standardized MIC testing techniques approved by the CLSI). The mechanism of
resistance identified is FKS1 and/or FKS2 (for C. glabrata) gene mutations. These cases have been
associated with poor clinical outcomes. 
Development of in vitro resistance to caspofungin by Aspergillus species has been identified. In
limited clinical experience, resistance to caspofungin in patients with invasive aspergillosis has been
observed. The mechanism of resistance has not been established. The incidence of resistance to
caspofungin by various clinical isolates of Aspergillus is rare. Caspofungin resistance in Candida has
been observed but the incidence may differ by species or region.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Invasive Candidiasis in Adult Patients: Two hundred thirty-nine patients were enrolled in an initial
study to compare caspofungin and amphotericin B for the treatment of invasive candidiasis. Twenty-
four patients had neutropaenia. The most frequent diagnoses were bloodstream infections
(candidaemia) (77 %, n = 186) and Candida peritonitis (8 %, n = 19); patients with Candida
endocarditis, osteomyelitis, or meningitis were excluded from this study. Caspofungin 50 mg once
daily was administered following a 70 mg loading dose, while amphotericin B was administered at 0.6
to 0.7 mg/kg/day to non-neutropaenic patients or 0.7 to 1.0 mg/kg/day to neutropaenic patients. The
mean duration of intravenous therapy was 11.9 days, with a range of 1 to 28 days. A favourable
response required both symptom resolution and microbiological clearance of the Candida infection.
Two hundred twenty-four patients were included in the primary efficacy analysis (MITT analysis) of
response at the end of IV study therapy; favourable response rates for the treatment of invasive
candidiasis were comparable for caspofungin (73 % [80/109]) and amphotericin B (62 % [71/115]) [%
difference 12.7 (95.6 % CI -0.7, 26.0)]. Among patients with candidaemia, favourable response rates
at the end of IV study therapy were comparable for caspofungin (72 % [66/92]) and amphotericin B
(63 % [59/94]) in the primary efficacy analysis (MITT analysis) [% difference 10.0 (95.0 % CI -4.5,
24.5)]. Data in patients with non-blood sites of infection were more limited. Favourable response rates
in neutropaenic patients were 7/14 (50 %) in the caspofungin group and 4/10 (40 %) in the
amphotericin B group. These limited data are supported by the outcome of the empirical therapy
study.
In a second study, patients with invasive candidiasis received daily doses of caspofungin at 50 mg/day
(following a 70-mg loading dose on Day 1) or caspofungin at 150 mg/day (see section 4.8). In this
study, the caspofungin dose was administered over 2 hours (instead of the routine 1-hour
administration). The study excluded patients with suspected Candida endocarditis, meningitis, or
osteomyelitis. As this was a primary therapy study, patients who were refractory to prior antifungal
agents were also excluded. The number of neutropenic patients enrolled in this study was also limited
(8.0 %). Efficacy was a secondary endpoint in this study. Patients who met the entry criteria and
received one or more doses of caspofungin study therapy were included in the efficacy analysis. The
favourable overall response rates at the end of caspofungin therapy were similar in the 2 treatment
10
groups: 72 % (73/102) and 78 % (74/95) for the caspofungin 50-mg and 150-mg treatment groups,
respectively (difference 6.3 % [95 % CI -5.9, 18.4]).
Invasive Aspergillosis in Adult Patients: Sixty-nine adult patients (age 18-80) with invasive
aspergillosis were enrolled in an open-label, non-comparative study to evaluate the safety, tolerability,
and efficacy of caspofungin. Patients had to be either refractory to (disease progression or failure to
improve with other antifungal therapies given for at least 7 days) (84 % of the enrolled patients) or
intolerant of (16 % of enrolled patients) other standard antifungal therapies. Most patients had
underlying conditions (haematologic malignancy [N = 24], allogeneic bone marrow transplant or stem
cell transplant [N = 18], organ transplant [N = 8], solid tumour [N = 3], or other conditions [N = 10]).
Stringent definitions, modelled after the Mycoses Study Group Criteria, were used for diagnosis of
invasive aspergillosis and for response to therapy (favourable response required clinically significant
improvement in radiographs as well as in signs and symptoms). The mean duration of therapy was
33.7 days, with a range of 1 to 162 days. An independent expert panel determined that 41 % (26/63) of
patients receiving at least one dose of caspofungin had a favourable response. For those patients who
received more than 7 days of therapy with caspofungin, 50 % (26/52) had a favourable response. The
favourable response rates for patients who were either refractory to or intolerant of previous therapies
were 36 % (19/53) and 70 % (7/10), respectively. Although the doses of prior antifungal therapies in
5 patients enrolled as refractory were lower than those often administered for invasive aspergillosis,
the favourable response rate during therapy with caspofungin was similar in these patients to that seen
in the remaining refractory patients (2/5 versus 17/48, respectively). The response rates among
patients with pulmonary disease and extrapulmonary disease were 47 % (21/45) and 28 % (5/18),
respectively. Among patients with extrapulmonary disease, 2 of 8 patients who also had definite,
probable, or possible CNS involvement had a favourable response.
Empirical Therapy in Febrile, Neutropaenic Adult Patients: A total of 1,111 patients with persistent
fever and neutropaenia were enrolled in a clinical study and treated with either caspofungin 50 mg
once daily following a 70 mg loading dose or liposomal amphotericin B 3.0 mg/kg/day. Eligible
patients had received chemotherapy for malignancy or had undergone hematopoietic stem-cell
transplantation, and presented with neutropaenia (<500 cells/mm3 for 96 hours) and fever (>38.0°C)
not responding to ≥96 hours of parenteral antibacterial therapy. Patients were to be treated until up to
72 hours after resolution of neutropaenia, with a maximum duration of 28 days. However, patients
found to have a documented fungal infection could be treated longer. If the drug was well tolerated but
the patient’s fever persisted and clinical condition deteriorated after 5 days of therapy, the dosage of
study drug could be increased to 70 mg/day of caspofungin (13.3 % of patients treated) or to
5.0 mg/kg/day of liposomal amphotericin B (14.3 % of patients treated). There were 1,095 patients
included in the primary Modified Intention-To-Treat (MITT) efficacy analysis of overall favourable
response; caspofungin (33.9 %) was as effective as liposomal amphotericin B (33.7 %) [% difference
0.2 (95.2 % CI –5.6, 6.0)]. An overall favourable response required meeting each of 5 criteria:
(1) successful treatment of any baseline fungal infection (caspofungin 51.9 % [14/27], liposomal
amphotericin B 25.9 % [7/27]), (2) no breakthrough fungal infections during administration of study
drug or within 7 days after completion of treatment (caspofungin 94.8 % [527/556], liposomal
amphotericin B 95.5 % [515/539]), (3) survival for 7 days after completion of study therapy
(caspofungin 92.6 % [515/556], liposomal amphotericin B 89.2 % [481/539]), (4) no discontinuation
from the study drug because of drug-related toxicity or lack of efficacy (caspofungin 89.7 %
[499/556], liposomal amphotericin B 85.5 % [461/539]), and (5) resolution of fever during the period
of neutropaenia (caspofungin 41.2 % [229/556], liposomal amphotericin B 41.4 % [223/539]).
Response rates to caspofungin and liposomal amphotericin B for baseline infections caused by
Aspergillus species were, respectively, 41.7 % (5/12) and 8.3 % (1/12), and by Candida species were
66.7 % (8/12) and 41.7 % (5/12). Patients in the caspofungin group experienced breakthrough
infections due to the following uncommon yeasts and moulds: Trichosporon species (1), Fusarium
species (1), Mucor species (1), and Rhizopus species (1).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of caspofungin was evaluated in paediatric patients 3 months to 17 years of
age in two prospective, multicentre clinical trials. The study design, diagnostic criteria, and criteria for
efficacy assessment were similar to the corresponding studies in adult patients (see section 5.1). 
11
The first study, which enrolled 82 patients between 2 to 17 years of age, was a randomized, double-
blind study comparing caspofungin (50 mg/m2 IV once daily following a 70-mg/m2 loading dose on
Day 1 [not to exceed 70 mg daily]) to liposomal amphotericin B (3 mg/kg IV daily) in a 2:1 treatment
fashion (56 on caspofungin, 26 on liposomal amphotericin B) as empirical therapy in paediatric
patients with persistent fever and neutropenia. The overall success rates in the MITT analysis results,
adjusted by risk strata, were as follows: 46.6 % (26/56) for caspofungin and 32.2 % (8/25) for
liposomal amphotericin B. 
The second study was a prospective, open-label, non-comparative study estimating the safety and
efficacy of caspofungin in paediatric patients (ages 6 months to 17 years) with invasive candidiasis,
oesophageal candidiasis, and invasive aspergillosis (as salvage therapy). Forty-nine patients were
enrolled and received caspofungin at 50 mg/m2 IV once daily following a 70-mg/m2 loading dose on
Day 1 (not to exceed 70 mg daily), of whom 48 were included in the MITT analysis. Of these, 37 had
invasive candidiasis, 10 had invasive aspergillosis, and 1 patient had esophageal candidiasis. The
favourable response rate, by indication, at the end of caspofungin therapy was as follows in the MITT
analysis: 81 % (30/37) in invasive candidiasis, 50 % (5/10) in invasive aspergillosis, and 100 % (1/1)
in oesophageal candidiasis. 
In a double-blind, randomized (2:1) comparator-controlled study safety, tolerability and efficacy of
caspofungin (2 mg/kg/d intravenously, infused over 2 hours) vs amphotericin B deoxycholate
(1 mg/kg/d) was evaluated in neonates and infants less than 3 months of age with (culture-confirmed)
invasive candidiasis. Due to poor enrolment, the study was terminated early and only 51 patients were
randomized. The proportion of patients with fungal-free survival at 2 weeks post-therapy in the
caspofungin treatment group (71.0 %) was similar to that seen in the amphotericin B deoxycholate
treatment group (68.8 %). Based on this study, no posology recommendations for neonates and infants
can be made.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Distribution
Caspofungin is extensively bound to albumin. The unbound fraction of caspofungin in plasma varies
from 3.5 % in healthy volunteers to 7.6 % in patients with invasive candidiasis. Distribution plays the
prominent role in caspofungin plasma pharmacokinetics and is the rate-controlling step in both the
alpha- and beta-disposition phases. The distribution into tissues peaked at 1.5 to 2 days after dosing
when 92 % of the dose was distributed into tissues. It is likely that only a small fraction of the
caspofungin taken up into tissues later returns to plasma as parent compound. Therefore, elimination
occurs in the absence of a distribution equilibrium, and a true estimate of the volume of distribution of
caspofungin is currently impossible to obtain.
Biotransformation
Caspofungin undergoes spontaneous degradation to an open ring compound. Further metabolism
involves peptide hydrolysis and N-acetylation. Two intermediate products, formed during the
degradation of caspofungin to this open ring compound, form covalent adducts to plasma proteins
resulting in a low-level, irreversible binding to plasma proteins. 
In vitro studies show that caspofungin is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 enzymes 1A2, 2A6,
2C9, 2C19, 2D6 or 3A4. In clinical studies, caspofungin did not induce or inhibit the CYP3A4
metabolism of other medicinal products. Caspofungin is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein and is a
poor substrate for cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Elimination
The elimination of caspofungin from plasma is slow with a clearance of 10-12 ml/min. Plasma
concentrations of caspofungin decline in a polyphasic manner following single 1-hour intravenous
infusions. A short alpha-phase occurs immediately post-infusion, followed by a beta-phase with a half-
life of 9 to 11 hours. An additional gamma-phase also occurs with a half-life of 45 hours. Distribution,
rather than excretion or biotransformation, is the dominant mechanism influencing plasma clearance. 
12
Approximately 75 % of a radioactive dose was recovered during 27 days: 41 % in urine and 34 % in
faeces. There is little excretion or biotransformation of caspofungin during the first 30 hours after
administration. Excretion is slow and the terminal half-life of radioactivity was 12 to 15 days. A small
amount of caspofungin is excreted unchanged in urine (approximately 1.4 % of dose).
Caspofungin displays moderate non-linear pharmacokinetics with increased accumulation as the dose
is increased, and a dose dependency in the time to reach steady state upon multiple-dose
administration.
Special populations
Increased caspofungin exposure was seen in adult patients with renal impairment and mild liver
impairment, in female subjects, and in the elderly. Generally the increase was modest and not large
enough to warrant dosage adjustment. In adult patients with moderate liver impairment or in higher
weight patients, a dosage adjustment may be necessary (see below).
Weight: Weight was found to influence caspofungin pharmacokinetics in the population
pharmacokinetic analysis in adult candidiasis patients. The plasma concentrations decrease with
increasing weight. The average exposure in an adult patient weighing 80 kg was predicted to be about
23 % lower than in an adult patient weighing 60 kg (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment: In adult patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment, the AUC is
increased about 20 and 75 %, respectively. There is no clinical experience in adult patients with severe
hepatic impairment and in paediatric patients with any degree of hepatic impairment. In a
multiple-dose study, a dose reduction of the daily dose to 35 mg in adult patients with moderate
hepatic impairment has been shown to provide an AUC similar to that obtained in adult subjects with
normal hepatic function receiving the standard regimen (see section 4.2).
Renal impairment: In a clinical study of single 70 mg doses, caspofungin pharmacokinetics were
similar in adult volunteers with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50 to 80 ml/min) and
control subjects. Moderate (creatinine clearance 31 to 49 ml/min), advanced (creatinine clearance 5 to
30 ml/min), and end-stage (creatinine clearance <10 ml/min and dialysis dependent) renal impairment
moderately increased caspofungin plasma concentrations after single-dose administration (range: 30 to
49 % for AUC). However, in adult patients with invasive candidiasis, oesophageal candidiasis, or
invasive aspergillosis who received multiple daily doses of caspofungin 50 mg, there was no
significant effect of mild to advanced renal impairment on caspofungin concentrations. No dosage
adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment. Caspofungin is not dialysable, thus
supplementary dosing is not required following haemodialysis. 
Gender: Caspofungin plasma concentrations were on average 17-38 % higher in women than in men. 
Elderly: A modest increase in AUC (28 %) and C24h (32 %) was observed in elderly male subjects
compared with young male subjects. In patients who were treated empirically or who had invasive
candidiasis, a similar modest effect of age was seen in older patients relative to younger patients.
Race: Patient pharmacokinetic data indicated that no clinically significant differences in the
pharmacokinetics of caspofungin were seen among Caucasians, Blacks, Hispanics, and Mestizos.
Paediatric Patients:
In adolescents (ages 12 to 17 years) receiving caspofungin at 50 mg/m2 daily (maximum 70 mg daily),
the caspofungin plasma AUC0-24 hr was generally comparable to that seen in adults receiving
caspofungin at 50 mg daily. All adolescents received doses >50 mg daily, and, in fact, 6 of 8 received
the maximum dose of 70 mg/day. The caspofungin plasma concentrations in these adolescents were
reduced relative to adults receiving 70 mg daily, the dose most often administered to adolescents.
13
In children (ages 2 to 11 years) receiving caspofungin at 50 mg/m2 daily (maximum 70 mg daily), the
caspofungin plasma AUC0-24 hr after multiple doses was comparable to that seen in adults receiving
caspofungin at 50 mg/day. 
In young children and toddlers (ages 12 to 23 months) receiving caspofungin at 50 mg/m2 daily
(maximum 70 mg daily), the caspofungin plasma AUC0-24 hr after multiple doses was comparable to
that seen in adults receiving caspofungin at 50 mg daily and to that in older children (2 to 11 years of
age) receiving the 50 mg/m2 daily dose.
Overall, the available pharmacokinetic, efficacy, and safety data are limited in patients 3 to 10 months
of age. Pharmacokinetic data from one 10-month old child receiving the 50 mg/m2 daily dose
indicated an AUC0-24 hr within the same range as that observed in older children and adults at the
50 mg/m2 and the 50 mg dose, respectively, while in one 6-month old child receiving the 50 mg/m2
dose, the AUC0-24 hr was somewhat higher. 
In neonates and infants (<3 months) receiving caspofungin at 25 mg/m2 daily (corresponding mean
daily dose of 2.1 mg/kg), caspofungin peak concentration (C1 hr) and caspofungin trough concentration
(C24 hr) after multiple doses were comparable to that seen in adults receiving caspofungin at 50 mg
daily. On Day 1, C1 hr was comparable and C24 hr modestly elevated (36 %) in these neonates and
infants relative to adults. However, variability was seen in both C1 hr (Day 4 geometric mean
11.73 µg/ml, range 2.63 to 22.05 µg/ml) and C24 hr (Day 4 geometric mean 3.55 µg/ml, range 0.13 to
7.17 µg/ml). AUC0-24 hr measurements were not performed in this study due to the sparse plasma
sampling. Of note, the efficacy and safety of caspofungin have not been adequately studied in
prospective clinical trials involving neonates and infants under 3 months of age.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and monkeys using doses up to 7-8 mg/kg given intravenously
showed injection site reactions in rats and monkeys, signs of histamine release in rats, and evidence of
adverse effects directed at the liver in monkeys. Developmental toxicity studies in rats showed that
caspofungin caused decreases in foetal body weights and an increase in the incidence of incomplete
ossification of vertebra, sternebra, and skull bone at doses of 5 mg/kg that were coupled to adverse
maternal effects such as signs of histamine release in pregnant rats. An increase in the incidence of
cervical ribs was also noted. Caspofungin was negative in in vitro assays for potential genotoxicity as
well as in the in vivo mouse bone marrow chromosomal test. No long-term studies in animals have
been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential. For caspofungin, there were no effects on
fertility in studies conducted in male and female rats up to 5 mg/kg/day.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Sucrose
Mannitol (E421)
Glacial acetic acid
Sodium hydroxide (to adjust the pH)
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Do not mix with diluents containing glucose, as CANCIDAS is not stable in diluents containing
glucose. In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other
medicinal products.
6.3  Shelf life
2 years
14
Reconstituted concentrate: should be used immediately. Stability data have shown that the concentrate
for solution for infusion can be stored for up to 24 hours when the vial is stored at 25°C or less and
reconstituted with water for injection.
Diluted patient infusion solution: should be used immediately. Stability data have shown that the
product can be used within 24 hours when stored at 25°C or less, or within 48 hours when the
intravenous infusion bag (bottle) is stored refrigerated (2 to 8°C) and diluted with sodium chloride
solution 9 mg/ml (0.9 %), 4.5 mg/ml (0.45 %), or 2.25 mg/ml (0.225 %) for infusion, or lactated
Ringer’s solution.
CANCIDAS contains no preservatives. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be
used immediately. If not used immediately, in use storage times and conditions prior to use are the
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C, unless
reconstitution and dilution have taken place in controlled validated aseptic conditions.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Unopened vials: store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
10 ml Type I glass vial with a grey butyl stopper and a plastic cap with a red aluminium band. 
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
10 ml Type I glass vial with a grey butyl stopper and a plastic cap with an orange aluminium band.
Supplied in packs of 1 vial.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Reconstitution of CANCIDAS
DO NOT USE ANY DILUENTS CONTAINING GLUCOSE, as CANCIDAS is not stable in diluents
containing glucose. DO NOT MIX OR CO-INFUSE CANCIDAS WITH ANY OTHER
MEDICINES, as there are no data available on the compatibility of CANCIDAS with other
intravenous substances, additives, or medicinal products. Visually inspect the infusion solution for
particulate matter or discolouration.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements. 
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN ADULT PATIENTS
Step 1 Reconstitution of conventional vials 
To reconstitute the powder, bring the vial to room temperature and aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for
injection. The concentrations of the reconstituted vials will be 5.2 mg/ml.
The white to off-white compact lyophilised powder will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear
solution is obtained. Reconstituted solutions should be visually inspected for particulate matter or
discolouration. This reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at or below 25°C.
15
Step 2 Addition of reconstituted CANCIDAS to patient infusion solution 
Diluents for the final solution for infusion are: sodium chloride solution for injection, or lactated
Ringer’s solution. The solution for infusion is prepared by aseptically adding the appropriate amount
of reconstituted concentrate (as shown in the table below) to a 250 ml infusion bag or bottle. Reduced
volume infusions in 100 ml may be used, when medically necessary, for 50 mg or 35 mg daily doses.
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION FOR INFUSION IN ADULTS
DOSE* 
50 mg 
50 mg at reduced
volume
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment  
(from one 50 mg vial)
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment 
(from one 50 mg vial) at
reduced volume
Volume of recon-
stituted
CANCIDAS for
transfer to
intravenous bag or
bottle
10 ml 
10 ml 
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
0.20 mg/ml
-
-
0.47 mg/ml
7 ml 
0.14 mg/ml
-
7 ml 
-
0.34 mg/ml
* 10.5 ml should be used for reconstitution of all vials.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN PAEDIATRIC PATIENTS
Calculation of Body Surface Area (BSA) for paediatric dosing
Before preparation of infusion, calculate the body surface area (BSA) of the patient using the
following formula: (Mosteller Formula)
Preparation of the 70 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 50-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual loading dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the patient's BSA
(as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 70 mg/m2 = Loading Dose
The maximum loading dose on Day 1 should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's
calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
5.2 mg/ml. 
Remove the volume of medicinal product equal to the calculated loading dose (Step 1) from the
vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or bottle)
containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringers
Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to a
reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Preparation of the 50 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 50-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual daily maintenance dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the
patient's BSA (as calculated above) and the following equation:
16
2. 
3. 
4. 
BSA (m2) X 50 mg/m2 = Daily Maintenance Dose
The daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
5.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicinal product equal to the calculated daily maintenance dose
(Step 1) from the vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an
IV bag (or bottle) containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection,
or Lactated Ringers Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can
be added to a reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or
Lactated Ringers Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion
solution must be used within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored
refrigerated at 2 to 8°C.
Preparation notes: 
a. The white to off-white cake will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear solution is obtained.
b. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter or discolouration during
reconstitution and prior to infusion. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated.
c. CANCIDAS is formulated to provide the full labeled vial dose (50 mg) when 10 ml is withdrawn
from the vial.
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN ADULT PATIENTS
Step 1 Reconstitution of conventional vials 
To reconstitute the powder bring the vial to room temperature and aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for
injection. The concentrations of the reconstituted vials will be: 7.2 mg/ml.
The white to off-white compact lyophilised powder will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear
solution is obtained. Reconstituted solutions should be visually inspected for particulate matter or
discolouration. This reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at or below 25°C.
Step 2 Addition of reconstituted CANCIDAS to patient infusion solution 
Diluents for the final solution for infusion are: sodium chloride solution for injection, or lactated
Ringer’s solution. The solution for infusion is prepared by aseptically adding the appropriate amount
of reconstituted concentrate (as shown in the table below) to a 250 ml infusion bag or bottle. Reduced
volume infusions in 100 ml may be used, when medically necessary, for 50 mg or 35 mg daily doses.
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION FOR INFUSION IN ADULTS
DOSE*
Volume of recon-
stituted
CANCIDAS for
transfer to
intravenous bag or
bottle
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
0.28 mg/ml
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
Not Recommended
70 mg
70 mg 
(from two 50 mg
vials)**
10 ml
14 ml
0.28 mg/ml
Not Recommended
17
DOSE* 
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment  
(from one 70 mg vial)
Volume of recon-
stituted
CANCIDAS for
transfer to
intravenous bag or
bottle
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
5 ml 
0.14 mg/ml 
0.34 mg/ml
* 10.5 ml should be used for reconstitution of all vials.
**If 70 mg vial is not available, the 70 mg dose can be prepared from two 50 mg vials.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN PAEDIATRIC PATIENTS
Calculation of Body Surface Area (BSA) for paediatric dosing
Before preparation of infusion, calculate the body surface area (BSA) of the patient using the
following formula: (Mosteller Formula)
2. 
3. 
Preparation of the 70 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 70-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual loading dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the patient's BSA
(as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 70 mg/m2 = Loading Dose
The maximum loading dose on Day 1 should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's
calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
7.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicinal product equal to the calculated loading dose (Step 1) from the
vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or bottle)
containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringers
Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to a
reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C. 
4. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Preparation of the 50 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 70-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual daily maintenance dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the
patient's BSA (as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 50 mg/m2 = Daily Maintenance Dose
The daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
7.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicinal product equal to the calculated daily maintenance dose
(Step 1) from the vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an
IV bag (or bottle) containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection,
or Lactated Ringers Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can
be added to a reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or
Lactated Ringers Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion
solution must be used within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored
refrigerated at 2 to 8°C.
18
Preparation notes: 
a. The white to off-white cake will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear solution is obtained.
b. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter or discolouration during
reconstitution and prior to infusion. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated.
c. CANCIDAS is formulated to provide the full labelled vial dose (70 mg) when 10 ml is withdrawn
from the vial.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/01/196/001 
EU/1/01/196/003
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 24 October 2001.
Date of latest renewal: 07 September 2011.
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
19
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH
RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
20
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V., Waarderweg 39, 2031 BN Haarlem, The Netherlands
or
FAREVA Mirabel, Route de Marsat-Riom, 63963 Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9, France
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product
Characteristics, section 4.2)
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Risk management plan (RMP)
• 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation
and any subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
21
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
A. LABELLING
23
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
caspofungin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains: 50 mg caspofungin.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sucrose, mannitol (E421), glacial acetic acid, and sodium hydroxide.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 vial
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
24
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/01/196/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
25
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
caspofungin 
Intravenous use IV
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
26
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
caspofungin
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains: 70 mg caspofungin.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains sucrose, mannitol (E421), glacial acetic acid, and sodium hydroxide.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 vial
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution.
Read the package leaflet before use.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
27
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/01/196/003
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
28
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
caspofungin
Intravenous use IV
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER
29
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
30
Package Leaflet: Information for the user
Cancidas 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Cancidas 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
caspofungin 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or your child are given this medicine because it
contains important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
If you have further questions, please ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Cancidas is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cancidas
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Cancidas
Possible side effects
How to store Cancidas
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Cancidas is and what it is used for
What Cancidas is
Cancidas contains a medicine called caspofungin. This belongs to a group of medicines called
anti-fungals. 
What Cancidas is used for
Cancidas is used to treat the following infections in children, adolescents and adults:
• 
serious fungal infections in your tissues or organs (called ‘invasive candidiasis’). This infection
is caused by fungal (yeast) cells called Candida. 
People who might get this type of infection include those who have just had an operation or
those whose immune systems are weak. Fever and chills that do not respond to an antibiotic are
the most common signs of this type of infection.
fungal infections in your nose, nasal sinuses or lungs (called ‘invasive aspergillosis’) if other
anti-fungal treatments have not worked or have caused side effects. This infection is caused by a
mould called Aspergillus. 
People who might get this type of infection include those having chemotherapy, those who have
had a transplant and those whose immune systems are weak.
suspected fungal infections if you have a fever and a low white cell count that have not
improved on treatment with an antibiotic. People who are at risk of getting a fungal infection
include those who have just had an operation or those whose immune systems are weak. 
• 
• 
How Cancidas works
Cancidas makes fungal cells fragile and stops the fungus from growing properly. This stops the
infection from spreading and gives the body’s natural defences a chance to completely get rid of the
infection. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cancidas
Do not use Cancidas
• 
if you are allergic to caspofungin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in
section 6).
31
If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before you are given your medicine.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before you are given Cancidas if:
• 
• 
• 
you are allergic to any other medicines
you have ever had liver problems - you might need a different dose of this medicine
you are already taking cyclosporin (used to help prevent organ transplant rejection or to
suppress your immune system) - as your doctor may need to run extra blood tests during your
treatment.
• 
if you have ever had any other medical problem. 
If any of the above applies to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before
you are given Cancidas.
Cancidas may also cause Serious Cutaneous Adverse Reactions such as Stevens-Johnson Syndrome
(SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN).
Other medicines and Cancidas
Please tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any
other medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription, including herbal medicines.
This is because Cancidas can affect the way some other medicines work. Also, some other medicines
can affect the way Cancidas works. 
Tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines:
• 
cyclosporin or tacrolimus (used to help prevent organ transplant rejection or to suppress your
immune system) as your doctor may need to run extra blood tests during your treatment
• 
• 
• 
• 
some HIV medicines such as efavirenz or nevirapine
phenytoin or carbamazepine (used for the treatment of seizures) 
dexamethasone (a steroid)
rifampicin (an antibiotic).
If any of the above apply to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before
you are given Cancidas. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Ask your doctor for advice before taking any medicine, if you are pregnant or breast-feeding or think
you are pregnant.
• 
Cancidas has not been studied in pregnant women. It should be used in pregnancy only if the
potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the unborn baby. 
•  Women given Cancidas should not breast-feed.
Driving and using machines
There is no information to suggest that Cancidas affects your ability to drive or operate machinery.
Cancidas contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How to use Cancidas
Cancidas will always be prepared and given to you by a healthcare professional.
You will be given Cancidas:
• 
• 
• 
by slow injection into a vein (intravenous infusion) 
once each day
over about 1 hour. 
32
Your doctor will determine the duration of your treatment and how much Cancidas you will be given
each day. Your doctor will monitor how well the medicine works for you. If you weigh more than
80 kg, you may need a different dose.
Children and adolescents
The dose for children and adolescents may differ from the adult dose.
If you have been given more Cancidas than you should
Your doctor will decide how much Cancidas you need and for how long each day. If you are worried
that you may have been given too much Cancidas, tell your doctor or nurse straight away.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you notice any of the following side effects – you may
need urgent medical treatment:
• 
rash, itching, feeling warm, swelling of your face, lips or throat or difficulty breathing - you
may be having a histamine reaction to the medicine.
• 
• 
• 
difficulty breathing with wheezing or a rash that gets worse - you may be having an allergic
reaction to the medicine.
cough, serious breathing difficulties - if you are an adult and have invasive aspergillosis you
may be experiencing a serious respiratory problem that could result in respiratory failure. 
rash, skin peeling, mucous membrane sores, hives, large areas of peeling skin.
As with any prescription medicine, some side effects may be serious. Ask your doctor for more
information. 
Other side effects in adults include:
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people:
• 
Decreased haemoglobin (decreased oxygen carrying substance in the blood), decreased white
blood cells
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Decreased blood albumin (a type of protein) in your blood, decreased potassium or low
potassium levels in the blood
Headache
Inflammation of the vein
Shortness of breath
Diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting
Changes in some laboratory blood tests (including increased values of some liver tests)
Itching, rash, skin redness or sweating more than usual 
Joint pain
Chills, fever
Itching at the injection site.
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people:
• 
Changes in some laboratory blood tests (including disease of blood clotting, platelets, red blood
cells and white blood cells)
• 
• 
Loss of appetite, increase in amount of body fluid, imbalance of salt in the body, high sugar
level in the blood, low calcium level in the blood, increase calcium level in the blood, low
magnesium level in the blood, increase in acid level in the blood
Disorientation, feeling nervous, being unable to sleep 
33
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Feeling dizzy, decreased feeling or sensitivity (especially in the skin), shaking, feeling sleepy,
change in the way things taste, tingling or numbness
Blurred vision, increase in tears, swollen eyelid, yellowing of the whites of the eyes
Sensation of fast or irregular heartbeats, rapid heartbeat, irregular heartbeat, abnormal heart
rhythm, heart failure
Flushing, hot flush, high blood pressure, low blood pressure, redness along a vein which is
extremely tender when touched
Tightening of the bands of muscle around the airways resulting in wheezing or coughing, fast
breathing rate, shortness of breath that wakes you up, shortage of oxygen in the blood, abnormal
breath sounds, crackling sounds in the lungs, wheezing, nasal congestion, cough, throat pain
Belly pain, upper belly pain, bloating, constipation, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth,
indigestion, passing gas, stomach discomfort, swelling due to build-up of fluid around the belly
Decreased flow of bile, enlarged liver, yellowing of the skin and/or whites of the eyes, liver
injury caused by a drug or chemical, liver disorder
Abnormal skin tissue, generalised itching, hives, rash of varying appearance, abnormal skin, red
often itchy spots on your arms and legs and sometimes on the face and the rest of the body 
Back pain, pain in an arm or leg, bone pain, muscle pain, muscle weakness
Loss of kidney function, sudden loss of kidney function
Catheter site pain, injection site complaints (redness, hard lump, pain, swelling, irritation, rash,
hives, leaking of fluid from the catheter into the tissue), inflammation of vein at injection site
Increased blood pressure and alterations in some laboratory blood tests (including kidney
electrolyte and clotting tests), increased levels of the medicines you are taking that weaken the
immune system
Chest discomfort, chest pain, feeling of body temperature change, generally feeling unwell,
general pain, swelling of the face, swelling of the ankles, hands or feet, swelling, tenderness,
feeling tired.
Side effects in children and adolescents 
Fever
Headache
Fast heart beat
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people:
• 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Changes in some laboratory blood tests.
Flushing, low blood pressure
Catheter site pain
Itching, rash
Chills
Changes in some laboratory blood tests (increased values of some liver tests)
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Cancidas
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the vial (the first two
numbers are the month; the next four numbers are the year). The expiry date refers to the last day of
that month.
34
Store in a refrigerator (2C to 8C).
Once Cancidas has been prepared, it should be used straight away. This is because it does not contain
any ingredients to stop the growth of bacteria. Only a trained healthcare professional who has read the
complete directions should prepare the medicine (please see below “Instructions of how to reconstitute
and dilute Cancidas”).
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Cancidas contains
• 
The active substance is caspofungin. 
Cancidas 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
Each vial of Cancidas contains 50 mg of caspofungin. 
Cancidas 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
Each vial of Cancidas contains 70 mg of caspofungin. 
• 
The other ingredients are sucrose, mannitol (E421), glacial acetic acid and sodium hydroxide
(please see section 2 What you need to know before you are given Cancidas).
What Cancidas looks like and contents of the pack
Cancidas is a sterile, white to off-white compact powder. 
Each pack contains one vial of powder.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem 
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
Merck Sharp & Dohme B. V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
or
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat-Riom
63963 Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the
Marketing Authorisation Holder:
Belgique/België/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel.: +370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
35
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 44 82 40 00
dkmail@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel.: 8007 4433 (+ 356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Eλλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε
Τηλ: + 30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: + 4021 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 1 5204201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
36
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: +371 67364 224
msd_lv@merck.com
This leaflet was last revised in 
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 (0)77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:
Instructions of how to reconstitute and dilute CANCIDAS:
Reconstitution of CANCIDAS
DO NOT USE ANY DILUENTS CONTAINING GLUCOSE as CANCIDAS is not stable in diluents
containing glucose. DO NOT MIX OR CO-INFUSE CANCIDAS WITH ANY OTHER
MEDICINES, as there are no data available on the compatibility of CANCIDAS with other
intravenous substances, additives, or medicinal products. Visually inspect the infusion solution for
particulate matter or discolouration.
CANCIDAS 50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN ADULT PATIENTS (50 mg vial)
Step 1 Reconstitution of conventional vials 
To reconstitute the powder bring the vial to room temperature and aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for
injection. The concentrations of the reconstituted vials will be 5.2 mg/ml.
The white to off-white compact lyophilised powder will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear
solution is obtained. Reconstituted solutions should be visually inspected for particulate matter or
discolouration. This reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at or below 25°C.
Step 2 Addition of reconstituted CANCIDAS to patient infusion solution 
Diluents for the final solution for infusion are: sodium chloride solution for injection, or lactated
Ringer’s solution. The solution for infusion is prepared by aseptically adding the appropriate amount
of reconstituted concentrate (as shown in the table below) to a 250 ml infusion bag or bottle. Reduced
volume infusions in 100 ml may be used, when medically necessary, for 50 mg or 35 mg daily doses.
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
37
50 mg VIAL: PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION FOR INFUSION IN ADULTS
DOSE* 
50 mg 
50 mg at reduced
volume
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment  
(from one 50 mg vial)
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment 
(from one 50 mg vial) at
reduced volume
Volume of 
reconstituted 
CANCIDAS for 
transfer to 
intravenous bag or 
bottle
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
10 ml 
10 ml 
0.20 mg/ml
-
-
0.47 mg/ml
7 ml 
0.14 mg/ml
-
7 ml 
-
0.34 mg/ml
* 10.5 ml should be used for reconstitution of all vials.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN PAEDIATRIC PATIENTS (50 mg vial)
Calculation of Body Surface Area (BSA) for paediatric dosing
Before preparation of infusion, calculate the body surface area (BSA) of the patient using the
following formula: (Mosteller2 Formula)
2. 
3. 
Preparation of the 70 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 50-mg vial)
Determine the actual loading dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the patient's BSA
1. 
(as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 70 mg/m2 = Loading Dose
The maximum loading dose on Day 1 should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's
calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
5.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicine equal to the calculated loading dose (Step 1) from the vial.
Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or bottle)
containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringers
Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to a
reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C. 
4. 
Preparation of the 50 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 50-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual daily maintenance dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the
patient's BSA (as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 50 mg/m2 = Daily Maintenance Dose
The daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
2. 
2  Mosteller RD: Simplified Calculation of Body Surface Area. N Engl J Med 1987 Oct 22;317(17): 1098 (letter)
38
3. 
4. 
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
5.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicine equal to the calculated daily maintenance dose (Step 1) from
the vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or
bottle) containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated
Ringers Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to
a reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C. 
Preparation notes: 
a The white to off-white cake will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear solution is obtained.
b Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter or discoloration during
reconstitution and prior to infusion. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated.
c CANCIDAS is formulated to provide the full labelled vial dose (50 mg) when 10 ml is withdrawn
from the vial.
CANCIDAS 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN ADULT PATIENTS (70 mg vial)
Step 1 Reconstitution of conventional vials 
To reconstitute the powder bring the vial to room temperature and aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for
injection. The concentrations of the reconstituted vials will be: 7.2 mg/ml.
The white to off-white compact lyophilised powder will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear
solution is obtained. Reconstituted solutions should be visually inspected for particulate matter or
discolouration. This reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at or below 25°C.
Step 2 Addition of reconstituted CANCIDAS to patient infusion solution 
Diluents for the final solution for infusion are: sodium chloride solution for injection, or lactated
Ringer’s solution. The solution for infusion is prepared by aseptically adding the appropriate amount
of reconstituted concentrate (as shown in the table below) to a 250 ml infusion bag or bottle. Reduced
volume infusions in 100 ml may be used, when medically necessary, for 50 mg or 35 mg daily doses.
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated. 
70 mg VIAL: PREPARATION OF THE SOLUTION FOR INFUSION IN ADULTS
DOSE* 
Volume of
reconstituted
CANCIDAS for
transfer to
intravenous bag or
bottle
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
0.28 mg/ml
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
Not Recommended
70 mg
70 mg 
(from two 50 mg
vials)**
10 ml
14 ml
0.28 mg/ml
Not Recommended
39
DOSE* 
35 mg for moderate
hepatic impairment  
(from one 70 mg vial)
Volume of
reconstituted
CANCIDAS for
transfer to
intravenous bag or
bottle
Standard preparation
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
250 ml) final
concentration
Reduced volume
infusion 
(reconstituted
CANCIDAS added to
100 ml) final
concentration
5 ml 
0.14 mg/ml 
0.34 mg/ml
* 10.5 ml should be used for reconstitution of all vials.
**If 70 mg vial is not available, the 70 mg dose can be prepared from two 50 mg vials.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE IN PAEDIATRIC PATIENTS (70 mg vial)
Calculation of Body Surface Area (BSA) for paediatric dosing
Before preparation of infusion, calculate the body surface area (BSA) of the patient using the
following formula: (Mosteller3 Formula)
2. 
3. 
Preparation of the 70 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 70-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual loading dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the patient's BSA
(as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 70 mg/m2 = Loading Dose
The maximum loading dose on Day 1 should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's
calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
7.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicine equal to the calculated loading dose (Step 1) from the vial.
Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or bottle)
containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated Ringers
Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to a
reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C. 
4. 
Preparation of the 50 mg/m2 infusion for paediatric patients >3 months of age (using a 70-mg vial)
1. 
Determine the actual daily maintenance dose to be used in the paediatric patient by using the
patient's BSA (as calculated above) and the following equation:
BSA (m2) X 50 mg/m2 = Daily Maintenance Dose
The daily maintenance dose should not exceed 70 mg regardless of the patient's calculated dose.
Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of CANCIDAS to room temperature.
Aseptically add 10.5 ml of water for injection.a This reconstituted solution may be stored for up
to 24 hours at or below 25°C.b This will give a final caspofungin concentration in the vial of
7.2 mg/ml.
Remove the volume of medicine equal to the calculated daily maintenance dose (Step 1) from
the vial. Aseptically transfer this volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS to an IV bag (or
bottle) containing 250 ml of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection, or Lactated
Ringers Injection. Alternatively, the volume (ml)c of reconstituted CANCIDAS can be added to
a reduced volume of 0.9 %, 0.45 %, or 0.225 % Sodium Chloride Injection or Lactated Ringers
2. 
3. 
4. 
3  Mosteller RD: Simplified Calculation of Body Surface Area. N Engl J Med 1987 Oct 22;317(17): 1098 (letter)
40
Injection, not to exceed a final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This infusion solution must be used
within 24 hours if stored at or below 25°C or within 48 hours if stored refrigerated at 2 to 8°C.
Preparation notes: 
a. The white to off-white cake will dissolve completely. Mix gently until a clear solution is obtained.
b. Visually inspect the reconstituted solution for particulate matter or discolouration during
reconstitution and prior to infusion. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or has precipitated.
c. CANCIDAS is formulated to provide the full labelled vial dose (70 mg) when 10 ml is withdrawn
from the vial.
41
