SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Cancidas. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8b. 
1. 
Introduction 
Caspofungin  MSD  contains  caspofungin  which  is  an  antifungal  agent  indicated  in  the  treatment  of 
invasive  aspergillosis  in  adult  patients  who  are  refractory  to  or  intolerant  of  amphotericin  B,  lipid 
formulations  of  amphotericin  B  and/or  itraconazole.  Refractoriness  is  defined  as  progression  of 
infection  or  failure  to  improve  after  a  minimum  of  7  days  of  prior  therapeutic  doses  of  effective 
antifungal therapy. 
Caspofungin is a semi-synthetic lipopeptide compound of the echinocandin family, synthesised from a 
fermentation product. It is the first representative of a new class of antifungal agents (glucan synthesis 
inhibitors) that inhibit the synthesis of beta (1,3)-D-glucan, an integral  component  of the fungal  cell 
wall. Caspofungin MSD is a sterile, lyophilised product for intravenous infusion that contains 50 or 70 
mg caspofungin, corresponding to 55.5 or 77.7 mg caspofungin acetate. The recommended dose is 70 
mg as a single loading dose on Day 1, followed by 50 mg daily thereafter. In patients weighing more 
than 80 kg, the recommended dose is 70 mg daily, after the initial 70 mg loading dose on Day 1. The 
duration  of  treatment  is  based  upon  the  severity  of  the  patient’s  underlying  disease,  recovery  from 
immunosuppression, and clinical response. 
Due  to  the  increasing  number  of  patients  with  solid  organ  and  bone  marrow  transplants,  with  HIV 
infections and critical illnesses, which often require invasive procedures, the incidence and the clinical 
importance of serious fungal infections have risen dramatically in the last 2 decades. 
Aspergillus  is the  second  most  common  fungal  pathogen after  Candida  and  is  responsible  for  up  to 
30 %  of  all  fungal  infections  in  cancer  patients.  Aspergillus is  common  in  the  environment,  but  the 
disease is rare and essentially confined to patients with significant underlying immunosuppression and 
locates primarily in the lungs or sinus, but can affect any organ. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is one of 
the  most  difficult  infections  to  treat,  with  mortality  approaching  90 %  in  the  most  severely 
immunocompromised patients, despite available treatment.  
Amphotericin B (AmB) is the  current standard treatment  of IA  although the  outcome remains poor. 
Alternative therapies have been developed with reduced toxicity compared to AmB: lipid formulations 
of  amphotericin  B    (lipAmB)  and  itraconazole.  There  are  no  published  placebo-controlled  trials  in 
patients failing prior antifungal therapy and overall very few randomised active comparator controlled 
studies.  Efficacy  (complete  or  partial)  of  approximately  40  %  has  been  demonstrated  in  open-label, 
non-comparative or emergency-use of protocols of the lipAmB in patients refractory to or intolerant of 
initial  therapy.  The  role  of  itraconazole  as  first-line  therapy  in  immunocompromised  patients  with 
acute  IA  has  been  questioned  and  empirical  data  are  still  sparse.  Furthermore,  itraconazole  is 
associated  with  multiple  interactions  with  medicinal  products  mediated  by  the  cytochrome  P-450 
enzyme  system.  As  a  result,  there  is  a  clear  need  for  new,  less  toxic  therapies  active  against 
Aspergillus. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
• 
The finished product is presented as a lyophilised sterile powder to be reconstituted and diluted prior 
to intravenous administration. It is available as 50 mg and 70 mg powder for concentrate for solution 
for injection and as 50 mg powder for solution for injection (presented in the transfer set vial). 
The other ingredients in the formulation are: acetate, sucrose, mannitol, sodium hydroxide and water 
for injections. Argon is also used as an inert gas, prior to stoppering.  
1/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For all presentations, the powder is contained in a Type I glass vial closed with a butyl rubber stopper. 
The  conventional  vial  is  sealed  with  a  20  mm  one  piece  aluminium  seal  with  plastic  flip-off  cap.  
The transfer set vial is sealed with a multi-component cap that provides for a direct connection to the 
diluent bag. 
Active substance 
• 
The  active substance,  caspofungin (as the  diacetate salt) is  a semi-synthetic  macrocyclic lipopeptide 
synthesised  from a  fermentation product. Synthesis involves  fermentation,  followed by isolation and 
purification  of  an  intermediate  containing  all  16  chiral  centres  in  the  correct  configuration,  and  a 
subsequent three step chemical modification, which has been shown to be stereo-retentive with regard 
to this configuration. 
The  structure  of  the  molecule  has  been  confirmed  by  the  usual  spectroscopic  techniques. 
Investigations into the solid-state properties revealed no evidence of polymorphs or solvates. 
Specification 
Theoretical and found impurities formed during fermentation and synthesis have been investigated by 
means  of  a  validated  gradient  HPLC  method.  Impurities  are  quantified  and  the  specified  levels  are 
justified  from  a safety point of view. The specification includes tests for assay,  acetate ion, residual 
solvents,  water  and  sulphated  ash.  Identity  is  confirmed  in  terms  of  specific  optical  rotation,  IR 
spectrum and HPLC profile versus reference. 
Batch analyses of three commercial scale batches confirm satisfactory uniformity and compliance with 
the agreed and justified specification. 
Stability 
Caspofungin  diacetate  in  the solid  state  is  unstable  even  under  moderate  refrigeration  and  therefore 
must be stored at -70°C. Stability studies at this temperature for up to 24 months indicate no evidence 
of significant degradation. The retest period and the containers have been justified. 
• 
The other ingredients in the formulation are sucrose, mannitol, glacial acetic acid, sodium hydroxide, 
and water for injections, and these all comply with Ph. Eur. monographs. There are no ingredients of 
animal origin which give rise to concerns related to TSE. 
Other ingredients 
Product development and finished product 
• 
Caspofungin  is  not  absorbed  orally  and  therefore  a  formulation  for  intravenous  infusion  has  been 
developed. 
One  main  focus  in  the  development  work  has  been  on  optimising  the  stability  of  the  product 
(minimising  chemical  degradation  of  the  substance  during  manufacture  and  storage).  A  lyophilised 
formulation  was  found  to  be  an  alternative  to  other  formulations  since  the  active  substance 
demonstrates inadequate stability both in solution and as a dry powder. The stability  of  caspofungin 
diacetate in buffered solution depends on the type of buffer used.  
Due  to  the  thermal  instability  of  the  active  substance  (degradation  and  decomposition)  it  is  not 
possible to terminally  sterilise the solution by  autoclaving. Gamma irradiation  was also investigated 
but was shown to be unsuitable. Aseptic filtration process  is therefore the only viable option.  
A  chilled  buffered  solution  of  caspofungin  acetate  is  filtered  through  sterilising  filters  in  series.  
The  filtered  solution  is  filled  into  pre-sterilised  10  ml  glass  vials  and  partially  stoppered  with  pre-
sterilised  siliconised  butyl  rubber  stoppers.  To  each  presentation  0.05  ml  of  the  filtered  solution  is 
added as an overage to account for filling variations. After lyophilisation the stoppers are fully sealed 
under argon and stored at 2 to 8°C. Process and filter validation data were provided and found to be 
satisfactory. 
Product Specification 
The  product  release  specification  focuses  on  degradation  products  observed  during  the  stability 
studies. In addition to the assay (HPLC),  the  other tests and limits are relevant  for a product  of this 
2/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
type:  completeness  and  clarity  of  solution;  particulate  matter;  identification  of  active  substance; 
uniformity of content; pH; moisture; endotoxins; sterility (Ph. Eur.).  
Batch  analysis  data  for  the  50  mg  and  70  mg  presentations  indicate  satisfactory  uniformity  and 
compliance  with  the  agreed,  justified  specification.  The  assay  limit  takes  into  account  the  above-
mentioned  overage  for  all  presentations,  as  well  as  a  5 %  overfill  for  the  conventional  vials.  
The conventional vial and the transfer set vial presentations therefore have different specifications for 
assay. 
A separate product shelf-life specification has been defined, based on stability results, and is similar to 
the release specification, but with slightly adjusted limits for degradation products. 
Stability of the Product 
• 
Data  provided  from  stability  studies,  utilising  a  reduced  sampling  matrixing  design,  have 
demonstrated the stability of the product when stored at 2 – 8°C in the vials intended for marketing. 
Characteristics  studied  include  all  the  tests  in  the  specification,  under  conditions  of  5°C/ambient 
relative humidity and 25°C/60 % relative humidity for up to 24 months depending on the presentation. 
The improved product stability  compared to the pure  active substance stability  may  be  explained by 
the stabilising effects of the formulation ingredients.  Different stability data were provided in support 
of the shelf-life  of the  conventional vial (24 months)  to that  of the  vial  with the integral transfer set  
(18  months),  and  the  resultant  difference  in  shelf-lives  is  reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Stability after reconstitution 
The results from reconstitution/dilution studies in Water for Injections, Saline solutions and Lactated 
Ringer’s  solution 
the 
reconstituted/diluted  product  at  25°C,  and  these  conditions  and  the  maximum  storage  times  are  as 
defined in the SPC. Dextrose 5% solution for injection is not recommended as a diluent. 
in  commercially  available  PVC  bags 
indicate  chemical  stability  of 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Caspofungin, a semi-synthetic lipopeptide of the echinocandin family, presents a new mode of action 
compared  to  other  antifungal  agents.  It  is  based  on  the  inhibition  of  1,3-β-D-glucan  synthesis,  a 
critical process in the formation of the structural cell wall in some pathogenic fungi such as Candida 
albicans  and Aspergillus fumigatus. Caspofungin prevents  enzymatic transfer of  glucose  from  UDP-
glucose  into  1,3-β-D-glucan  in  the  membrane  fractions  from  A.  fumigatus  and  C.  albicans  with 
inhibitory  concentration  50  %  values  of  9.6  and  0.6  nM,  respectively.  A  direct  correlation  between 
enzyme inhibition and antifungal activity in vitro or in vivo has not been established. Mammalian cells 
lack 1,3-β-D-glucan, indicating fungal specificity of action.  
The  antifungal  activity  of  caspofungin  has  been  extensively  studied  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  using 
primarily mouse models.  
In vitro studies  
• 
In  vitro,  susceptibility  testing  of  clinical  isolates  and  standard  strains  showed  that  caspofungin  has 
activity  against a range  of  yeasts,  fungi  and  molds. It has, in  general,  comparable  or lower  minimal 
inhibitrice concentration (MIC) values than AmB against Candida and Aspergillus.  
The  testing  on  Aspergillus  presented  particular  problems  partly  due  to  its  existence  as  a  mixed  cell 
population  and  the  absence  of  standardised  in  vitro  susceptibility  testing  method  for  echinocandins. 
The  proposed  National  Committee  for  Clinical  Laboratory  Standards  (NCCLS)  reference  method 
M38-P was used for Aspergillus species, which is acceptable. In a study on 102 clinical isolates, using 
the endpoint of substantial inhibition of visual growth defined according to that method, at 24 hours, 
3/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the MIC90 (MIC of 90 % of tested isolates) ranged from 0.2 to 0.5 µg/ml (0.15-0.4 µM). A correlation 
between MIC values and clinical outcome (favourable/unfavourable) has not been established.  
Extensive  investigations  suggested  that  caspofungin  is  not  traditionally  fungicidal  or  fungistatic 
against Aspergillus fumigatus but is fungicidal to the hyphae at its tips and branch points where  cell 
growth  and  division  occur.    Indeed  in  vitro,  during  a  long  term  incubation  study,  the  mass  fungal 
increased under caspofungin exposure which could suggest a fungistatic activity. The morphology of 
hyphal  growth  appeared  different  in  the  presence  of  caspofungin  compared  with  controls  and  the 
subapical  growth  forms  did  not  cause  deaths  in  chronically  immunosuppressed  mice  up  to  35  days 
post  treatment.  This  implied  a  different  pathogenicity,  but  the  clinical  relevance  of  these  aberrant 
hyphae  is  unknown.  The  development  of  conidiophores  observed  in  in  vitro  cultures  during 
caspofungin exposure was not considered clinically relevant. Other in vivo studies, using histology and 
fungal organ burden, revealed a fungicidal activity of caspofungin comparable to amphotericin B. 
Caspofungin has, however, a clear fungicidal activity against Candida spp. with MIC values ranging 
from 0.25 to 8 µg/ml, generally comparable with amphotericin B. Values increased up to 4-fold in the 
presence of 50 % human serum in RPMI medium, but using another medium no significant effect of 
serum  was  recorded. Corresponding data  for Aspergillus are  not available. Evaluation  for  a possible 
correlation between MIC and treatment outcome is ongoing in the caspofungin Candida studies. 
As expected, based on a different mechanism of action, caspofungin was active against azole-resistant 
strains of Candida and Aspergillus. Additionally, Candida and Aspergillus isolates, resistant to AmB 
were  still  susceptible  to  caspofungin.  There  are  currently  too  limited  data  on  the  development  of 
resistance  to  caspofungin  but  the  applicant  committed  to  further  monitor  this  issue  during  the  
post-authorisation phase. The mechanism of resistance seemed linked to a mutation in the FKS gene 
of the fungus, presumed to be glucan synthase.  
Caspofungin was inactive against Fusarium spp. and Rhizopus arrhizus and, as other glucan synthesis 
inhibitors, had insignificant activity against Cryptococcus neoformans.  
In vivo studies  
• 
Studies  in  animal  models  were  generally  consistent  with  clinically  relevant  activity  of  caspofungin. 
included  disseminated  and  pulmonary  aspergillosis,  disseminated  and 
Animal  models 
oropharyngeal/gastrointestinal  candidiasis,  cryptococcosis,  histoplasmosis  and  Pneumocytis  carinii 
pneumonia.  
Aspergillosis 
Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus were tested in animal models.  
Caspofungin  given  by  intraperitoneal  route  was  protective  against  disseminated  aspergillosis  in 
immunocompetent  and  immunocompromised  mice.  The  ED90  in  mice  lacking  C´-5  were  0.44  and  
0.21 mg/kg/dose for caspofungin and AmB, respectively. The effective daily dose in this model tended 
to be greater when given once daily in comparison to twice daily, although not remarkably increased 
(0.44  mg/kg  versus  0.24  mg/kg).  When  therapy  was  delayed  for  24  hours  in  mice  chronically 
immunosuppressed  with  cyclophosphamide,  the  ED90  were  0.486-  >1  mg/kg/dose  and  0.753-  >1 
mg/kg/dose  for  caspofungin  and  AmB,  respectively.  The  day  21  ED50  in  a  monoclonal  antibody-
induced neutropenic mouse survival model of aspergillosis were 1.05 and 0.85 mg/kg for caspofungin 
and  AmB,  respectively.  Caspofungin  increased  the  survival  in  mice  with  disseminated  aspergillosis 
with ED50 equivalent to 0.02 mg/kg intravenously. 
Neither caspofungin nor AmB was protective in a mouse model of disseminated aspergillosis induced 
by A. flavus. Further, none of them were effective in a pulmonary A. fumigatus mouse model at doses 
of  0.375  mg/kg  bid,  administered  by  intraperitoneal  route.  Data  presented  in  an  abstract  indicated, 
though, that caspofungin has activity at higher doses against pulmonary aspergillosis in rat. 
Candidiasis 
Studies  in  mouse  survival  models  of  disseminated  candidiasis  and  in  target  organ  assays  were 
consistent  with  significant  anti-candidiasis  activity  of  caspofungin,  overall  comparable  to  or  better 
4/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
than AmB. The day 21 ED50s ranged from 0.07-0.12 mg/kg for caspofungin and 0.19-0.42 mg/kg for 
AmB.  Loss  of  activity  was  evident  in  5-fluorouracil  neutropenic  mice  and  using  an  azole  resistant 
strain of C. albicans. 
Other 
effective 
against  Pneumocystis  carinii  pneumonia 
Caspofungin  was 
immunosuppressed rats and mice, with ED90 approximately of 0.02 mg/kg.  
In contrast to AmB, caspofungin was not effective in a mouse model of cryptococcosis. 
Caspofungin  prolonged  survival  at  dose  of  0.05  mg/kg/day  in  a  mouse  model  of  histoplasmosis 
induced by Histoplasma capsulatum. 
in  corticosteroid-
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
• 
In  vitro  studies  showed  a  synergistic  activity  between  caspofungin  and  AmB  against  Cryptococcus 
fumigatus  and  revealed  no  antagonistic  activity  against  C.  albicans.  
neoformans  and  A. 
Combination  studies  were  not  conclusive  with  regard  to  additive  or  synergistic  activity  between 
caspofungin  and  AmB  or  fluconazole  in  mouse  models.  However  against  A.  fumigatus,  the 
combination  of  caspofungin  (0.008  mg/kg)  with  AmB  (0.125  mg/kg)  produced  an  improvement  in 
mice survival over the two agents taken alone.  
In rats, ketoconazole (25 mg/kg orally) had no effect on the disposition of caspofungin (2 mg/kg i.v.) 
whereas indinavir (20 mg/kg orally) tended to increase the plasma levels of caspofungin although not 
significantly. 
AmB  (0.5  mg/kg  orally)  had  no  effect  on  the  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of  caspofungin  when  
co-administered in rats and similarly caspofungin had no effect on AmB pharmacokinetics.  
In rats also, cyclosporine (10 mg/kg, p.o.) increased by about 27 % Cmin values of caspofungin when 
given  at  2  mg/kg,  iv  and  by  16  %  AUC  levels.  There  was  a  modest  decrease  in  the  liver  uptake  of 
caspofungin. Further studies in vitro showed that cyclosporine had no effect on the unbound fraction 
of caspofungin in liver homogenate and thus did not seem to displace caspofungin binding.  
Further studies to evaluate the combination of caspofungin with other antifungal agents in vitro and in 
animal models are ongoing, the results of which will be submitted as part of follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post authorisation. 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
in  evidence  at  doses  up 
Although general pharmacodynamic studies were not conducted strictly according to Good Laboratory 
Practices principles, they were adequately performed. Overall, caspofungin was well tolerated. In dog 
and  mouse,  no  relevant  effect  on  the  respiratory,  renal,  gastrointestinal  or  central  nervous  systems 
were 
injection  of  
to  5  mg/kg.  Single 
≥  3  mg/kg  in  rat  produced  adverse  cardiovascular  effects,  overall  consistent  with  endogenous 
histamine  release.  In  monkey,  infusion  of  16  mg/kg,  but  not  8  mg/kg,  also  caused  adverse 
cardiovascular  effects.  No  significant  changes  in  QTc  interval  were  reported  in  dogs.  However  to 
exclude any potential risk of QT prolongation associated with caspofungin, the applicant undertook to 
conduct further studies, the results of which will be submitted post-authorisation. 
intravenous  bolus 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  caspofungin  was  evaluated  in  rats  and  monkeys  following 
intravenous administration. Caspofungin was initially measured by HPLC method using fluorescence 
detection  (lower  limit  of  quantification  100  ng/ml)  while  radio-immuno  assay  method  was  used  in 
later studies (lower limit of quantification 10 ng/ml).  
• 
Absorption 
5/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  oral  absorption  was  very  poor  in  rats,  with  oral  bioavailability  less  than  0.2 %  after  doses  of 
50 mg/kg. After single doses administered intravenously in rats over a dose range of 0.5 to 5 mg/kg, a 
approximate linear relationship was noted between the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) 
and dose. The AUC was comparable after single dose (4813 ± 451 µg x min/ml) and multiple doses 
(4061 ± 398 µg x  min/ml, day 10) of 2  mg/kg  for  up to 21 days. In  monkeys, the terminal  half-life 
appeared to increase with time and after multiple doses (5 mg/kg) for 14 days there was evidence of 
accumulation with an increase in the Cmin from 2.4 µg/ml (day 2) up to 5.6 µg/ml (day 10). The steady 
state appeared to be reached within 10 days. 
Distribution 
• 
Distribution  of  3H-caspofungin  in  rats  after  single  intravenous  dose  (2  mg/kg)  was  extensive  with 
highest amounts in  kidney, lung, liver  and spleen. The tissue radioactivity peaked  within 2  hours in 
most tissues and within 24 hours in the liver where it then decreased slowly, with about 3 % remaining 
at day 12. This suggests that the processes of hepatic uptake and elimination of caspofungin are very 
slow,  and  that  the  equilibration  of  the  compound  between  blood  and  liver  tissue  is  not  established 
rapidly. Results from an in situ rat liver perfusion preparation were consistent with the hypothesis that 
the hepatic uptake of caspofungin is a 2-step process involving an initial rapid binding of caspofungin 
to  the  cell  surface  that  is  followed  by  a  slow  mechanism  of  transport  into  the  cell.  Caspofungin  is 
neither a substrate nor an inhibitor for P-glycoprotein. 
Caspofungin  was  extensively  bound  to  rat,  monkey  and  human  plasma  proteins.  The  free  fraction 
accounted  for  4.1 %  in  rat,  1.3 %  in  monkey  and  3.5 %  in  humans.  The  extent  of  binding  was 
concentration independent up to 100 µg/ml. Irreversible binding that increased with time, to monkey 
and  human  plasma  proteins,  was  detected.  The  binding  to  plasma  proteins  proceeded  mainly  via  an 
imine  reaction,  but  also  involved  a  nucleophilic  addition  mechanism.  Caspofungin  derived  adducts 
with human β-endorphin were reported. The extent of covalent binding to liver protein will be further 
investigated. 
Small  fraction of caspofungin binds also to the plasma low density lipids components (about 3 % in 
rat, 0.5 % in monkey and 2 % in human).  
The major systemic metabolite, L-747969, was also highly protein bound with a free fraction of 1 % in 
monkey and 2 % in human. 
Distribution  into  erythrocytes  was  limited  with  a  blood/plasma  ratio  of  approximately  0.72  and 
caspofungin does not appear to cross the blood-brain barrier readily. 
Metabolism 
• 
Qualitatively,  all  major  metabolites  of  caspofungin  detected  in  humans  were  also  found  in  rats  and 
monkeys.  The  metabolism  pathway  included  peptide  hydrolysis  and  N-acetylation  in  all  species.  
The  CYP  enzyme  system  was  not  involved.  The  ring-opened  product  L-747969  was  a  major 
component in plasma and highly protein bound. Two major metabolites, M1 and M2, were detected in 
urine of rat, monkey and human. The potential antifungal activity of the metabolites and intermediates 
is currently unknown.  
Elimination 
• 
Elimination  was  polyphasic  with  a  half-life  of  2.75  days  for  caspofungin  in  monkey  plasma  and 
approximately  12  days  in  humans  and  monkeys  for  total  radioactivity.  An  effective  half-life  of 
approximately  4.3-8  hours  in  rat  and  monkey  was  calculated  based  on  plasma  concentrations 
exceeding MIC90 of 0.5 µg/ml. 
Caspofungin  was  excreted  via  urine  and  faeces,  and  about  70  %  of  the  dose  was  recovered  after  
28  days.  The  low  recovery  is  consistent  with  the  prolonged  excretion  phase  of  caspofungin  as 
characterised by a 12-day half-life of caspofungin-related materials in plasma. When  3H-caspofungin 
(2 mg/kg) was administered intravenously to rats, 42 % of the dose was excreted into urine and 29 % 
into the faeces over a 12-day collection period. In bile duct cannulated rats, 3 % of the dose was found 
in  the  bile,  mainly  as  unchanged  compound.  The  same  pattern  of  excretion  was  found  in  monkey, 
mouse, rabbit, and human. The majority of the radioactivity in the initial urine of all species was in the 
form  of  unchanged  drug.  At  later  time  points,  the  major  fraction  of  the  radioactivity  consisted  of 
6/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
predominantly polar metabolites (dihydroxyhomotyrosine, its N-acetyl derivative, and an unidentified 
minor metabolite).  
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  profile  of  caspofungin  in  the  diacetate  form  has  been  evaluated  in  mice,  rats, 
monkeys  and  rabbits.  Based  on  pharmacokinetics  data,  species  selected  were  considered  as  relevant 
models,  although  fewer  data  were  available  in  mice  and  rabbits.  All  main  studies  were  performed 
according to Good Laboratory Practices.  
A  preformulated  lyophilised  material  that  contains  impurities/degradates  at  levels  that  qualify  to 
clinical  specifications  was  also  used  in  some  repeated  dose  toxicity,  reproduction  toxicity  and 
genotoxicity studies.  
Single dose toxicity 
• 
Death in acute toxicity studies occurred very rapidly. Single intravenous administration of doses equal 
to or superior to 25 mg/kg in mice and 50 mg/kg in rats, resulted in death. Clinical signs prior to death 
included  tremors,  decreased  activity  and  bradypnea  in  mice  and  decreased  activity,  bradypnea,  tail 
discoloration,  and  swelling  and  necrosis  at  the  injection  sites  in  rats.  Some  of  these  signs  were 
consistent with endogenous histamine release. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
• 
The toxicity of caspofungin after repeated intravenous doses was evaluated in rats and monkeys for up 
to  27  weeks.  The  maximum  doses  were  7.2  mg/kg/day  in  rats  and  8  mg/kg/day  in  monkeys,  which 
represented approximately 7-fold the proposed clinical dose. In rats and monkeys, these doses resulted 
in  systemic  exposure  levels  approximately  1.5  to  2-fold  and  3  to  7-fold  higher  than  the  expected 
clinical  exposure,  respectively.  The  toxicokinetic  studies  revealed  that  the  exposure  in  rats  and 
monkeys at the NOEL (2 mg/kg/day) was close to the human exposure during treatment.  
The major findings, that are discussed in the following paragraphs, include: 
- 
- 
- 
Clinical signs due to histamine release in rats 
Increase in liver transaminase levels in monkeys 
Reactions at injection site in both species 
Histamine release  
In  rats,  clinical  signs  such  as  ataxia,  decreased  activity,  recumbency,  hyperemia  and  swelling  of 
extremities  were  consistent  with  histamine  release.  In  the  5  and  14  week  studies,  these  signs  were 
observed only in the high dose group (5  mg/kg/day) whereas in the 27-week study it occurred in all 
treatment  groups.  It  has  been  established  that  a  single  bolus  intravenous  dose  of  caspofungin  may 
cause  signs  of  histamine  release  in  monkeys,  however,  no  such  signs  occurred  in  the  repeat  dose 
studies of 5 to 27 weeks duration where caspofungin was infused over a 20-minute period at doses up 
to 6 mg/kg/day.  Supplementary in vitro studies supported a role of histamine release in the reactions 
observed.  In  peritoneal  mast  cells  from  rats,  caspofungin  induced  histamine  release  which  was 
detectable at 1 µg/ml, degranulation being almost complete at 100 µg/ml. The same concentration had 
no  significant  effect  on  human  basophil  and  lung  mast  cells,  whereas  a  small  effect  (about  10  % 
degranulation) was detected in skin mast cells.  
Increase in liver transaminase levels 
In  monkeys,  liver  was  the  primary  target  of  toxicity  in  all  studies.  Effects  consisted  mainly  of 
increases  in  liver  transaminase  levels  (AST  and  ALT).  The  NOEL  for  this  effect  was  2  and 
1.5 mg/kg/day, the lower value being obtained in the 27 week study. In one 5-week study in monkeys 
at doses  which produced  exposures approximately  4 to 6 times those seen in patients treated  with  a 
70 mg dose, scattered small foci of subcapsular necrosis were observed microscopically in the livers 
of  some  animals  (2/8  monkeys  at  5  mg/kg/day  and  4/8  monkeys  at  8  mg/kg/day);  however,  this 
histopathological  finding  was  not  seen  in  another  study  of  27  weeks  duration  at  similar  doses. 
Increases in transaminase levels generally correlated with the hepatic levels of caspofungin since, for 
the  same  5  mg/kg/day  dose,  the  hepatic  level  of  caspofungin  was  twice  greater  in  monkeys than  in 
7/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rats,  in  which  no  liver  transaminase  increases  or  treatment-related  hepatic  histopathologic  findings 
occurred.  
Reactions at injection site  
The  most  prominent  reaction  in  both  rats  and  monkeys  was  injection  site  changes  characterised  by 
necrosis, thrombosis, oedema, focal discoloration of vein and fibroplasia. The severity of these effects 
was reduced with a saline flush before and after infusion. The NOEL for injection site changes ranged 
from 1.8 to 2 mg/kg/day in rats and was 3 mg/kg/day in monkeys in 27-week studies.  
Additional findings  
A tendency for increased triglycerides was noted in rabbits and pregnant rats.  
No relevant toxicological changes were noted in juvenile monkeys given 5 mg/kg/day for 5 weeks. 
Overall pronounced toxicity was not manifest in repeated dose toxicity studies but the maximum dose 
might  have  been  limited  by  methodological  problems  associated  with  long-term  intravenous 
administration and by the occurrence severe reactions coupled to histamine release in rats. The NOELs 
identified did not attain many multiples over expected clinical levels on a dose or systemic  exposure 
basis. 
• 
Genotoxicity  
Caspofungin was not genotoxic in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  have  been  conducted  with  caspofungin  in  view  of  the  expected  short 
duration of treatment (less than 6 months). This is consistent with the current international guidelines 
on carcinogenicity testing. 
• 
Reproduction toxicity 
Studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits  using  lyophilised  formulation  given  intravenously  with 
maximum doses of 5 and 6 mg/kg/day, respectively. Toxicokinetic studies were performed in pregnant 
rats and rabbits using doses of 5 mg/kg/day administered intravenously. This dose produced systemic 
exposure  levels  of  approximately  203-212  µg  x  h/ml.  In  comparison  with  the  human  systemic 
exposure at  a  dose  of  70  mg (AUC0-24h approximately  equivalent to 150 µg  x  h/ml), the  margins  of 
exposure  are  low  and  in  most  cases  identified  NOELs  are  likely  to  be  below  expected  human 
exposure. 
In  rats,  no  effect  on  either  male  or  female  fertility  was  apparent.  The  NOEL  was  determined   
> 5 mg/kg/day.  
In  an  embryo-foetal  development  study  in  rats,  maternal  toxicity  was  limited  to  signs  of  histamine 
release  and  foetal  survival  was  not  affected  by  caspofungin.  In  the  5  mg/kg/day  group,  there  was  a 
slight  decrease  in  foetal  weights  as  well  as  an  increased  incidence  of  cervical  ribs  and  incomplete 
ossification  of  torso  (vertebra,  sternebra)  and  skull  bone.  When  considering  foetuses  with  skeletal 
malformations and litters affected, there seemed to be an increased incidence in the high dose group:  
1  foetus/1 litter in control  group  versus 6  foetuses/4 litters in  high dose  group  (including  one  foetus 
with  multiple  malformations).  Individual  malformations  were  stated  to  be  within  historical  control 
ranges.  
In an embryo-foetal study in rabbits, slight increase in peri/post-implantation loss was apparent but the 
relation to treatment was equivocal as values remained within the historical control data. There was no 
effect on foetal survival or any evidence of teratogenicity, indicating a NOEL > 6 mg/kg/day.  
Treatment with caspofungin seemed devoid of any significant effect in the peri/post natal study in rats, 
indicating a NOEL > 5 mg/kg/day. 
8/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caspofungin crossed the placenta in rats and rabbits. At 24 hours post-dose (5 mg/kg/day), the mean 
foetal concentrations  were 18 % and 29 % of the  maternal  plasma  concentration, respectively in the 
two  species.  In  addition,  caspofungin  excreted  into  milk  of  lactating  rats  (milk  concentration  was  
13 % of plasma concentration). In view of these results and in the absence of human data, caspofungin 
should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly  necessary  and  should  not  be  used  in  lactating 
women, as mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
• 
Local tolerance 
Caspofungin  was  less  hemolytic  than  AmB  with  minimum  lytic  concentrations  of  450  µg/ml  in 
washed  human blood. Caspofungin  was a  mild skin irritant in the rabbit (500  mg/site), but severely 
irritating to the eye in an in vitro test (20 % (w/v)).  
• 
Other toxicity 
In the toxicity studies  using the lyophilised  formulation  containing  degradation products  at levels at 
least equivalent to the formulation intended for marketing, there was no indication that the presence of 
any degradates or impurities altered the toxicity profile of caspofungin.  
No  specific  studies  have  been  performed  to  evaluate  the  immunogenic  potential  of  caspofungin, 
however there was no evidence for any immunogenicity potential in the repeat dose toxicity studies in 
rats or monkeys.  
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  performed  and  no  significant  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of caspofungin is anticipated.  
4. 
Part IV Clinical aspects 
The initial clinical development programme for caspofungin focused on the treatment of documented 
Aspergillus  and  Candida  infections  in  adult  patients.  It  included  12  pharmacokinetic  studies  and  
3  phase II studies  carried out in patients  with  oropharyngeal  and  oesophageal  candidiasis. Based  on 
the preliminary efficacy and safety data, confirmatory phase III studies were initiated to evaluate the 
clinical  benefit  of  caspofungin  in  the  treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis  in  patients  refractory  to  or 
intolerant of standard therapy. The clinical programme in this indication was designed according to the 
scientific advice provided by the CPMP in December 1999. 
In addition, confirmatory trials enrolling patients with candidiasis were initiated. Since the treatment 
of Candida infections was an indication not sought at the time  of the submission  of the  application,  
the results from these studies could only be considered as supportive. 
All the studies  were  conducted in accordance  with agreed International Ethical Principles  and  Good 
Clinical Practices standards. 
The approved indication is for treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adult patients who are refractory 
to or intolerant of amphotericin B, lipid formulations of amphotericin B and/or itraconazole. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days 
of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
• 
As  already  mentioned  in  section  3  of  this  document  (part  III  pharmaco-toxicological  aspects), 
caspofungin, a semi-synthetic lipopeptide  of the echinocandin family, presents a new mode of action 
compared  to  other  antifungal  agents.  It  is  based  on  the  inhibition  of  1,3-β-D-glucan  synthesis,  a 
9/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
critical  process  in  the  formation  of  the  structural  cell  wall  in  some  pathogenic  fungi,  including 
Aspergillus and Candida.  
• 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics relationship 
The relationship between pharmacokinetic parameters (AUC0-24h, C1h and C24h) and treatment outcome 
(favourable/unfavourable) was evaluated in a population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis 
including  142  candidiasis  patients  who  received  daily  doses  of  caspofungin  (35  mg,  50  mg  or  
70 mg). A similar analysis was performed for patients with aspergillosis receiving a 70 mg bolus dose 
followed  by  50  mg  once  daily.  A  relationship  between  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and  treatment 
outcome  could  not  be  defined  for  caspofungin.  In  candidiasis  patients,  increased  exposure  (C24h) 
seemed associated with an increased rate of favourable response, whereas such relationship could not 
be established in patients with IA. Although it is likely to be difficult to establish a PK/PD relationship 
for caspofungin, considering the importance of many additional factors, such as immune function, the 
applicant  committed  to  further  investigate  it  as  part  of  follow-up  measure  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Pharmacokinetics 
General 
• 
Caspofungin  pharmacokinetics  was  assessed  in  12  pharmacokinetic  studies  conducted  in  healthy 
volunteers, in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and in patients with oesophagitis candidiasis 
and severe immunosuppression. Of the 312 subjects enrolled, 274 received caspofungin. 
In addition, two population pharmacokinetic studies were performed based on phase II studies (P003, 
P004  and  P007)  involving  patients  with  oropharyngeal  and  oesophagaeal  candidiasis  and  the  non 
comparative Aspergillus salvage study (P019).  
Caspofungin  was  administered  intravenously  as  an  infusion  over  60  minutes  in  all  pharmacokinetic 
studies. Single  doses ranging  from 5 to 100  mg  and  multiple  doses ranging  from 35 to 70  mg  once 
daily  for  up  to  21  days  were  administered.  All  the  analytical  methods  were  adequate  and  a  three 
compartmental model was selected to describe the pharmacokinetic profile of caspofungin. 
Absorption 
• 
As  caspofungin  has  been  developed  for  parenteral  use  only,  the  oral  bioavailability  was  not 
determined. 
Caspofungin  displayed  linear  pharmacokinetics  after  single  dose  administration  ranging  from  5  to  
100  mg.  At  the  end  of  a  1-h  infusion  of  70 mg  caspofungin,  plasma  concentrations  (C1h)  ranged 
usually from 9.5 to 12 µg/ml, and 24 h later, plasma concentrations (C24h) ranged from 1 to 2 µg/ml. 
AUC,  C1h  and  C24h  displayed  marked  inter-individual  variability  (coefficient  of  variation  ∼30  %). 
Upon  multiple  dosing,  caspofungin  pharmacokinetics  were  moderately  non-linear,  with  increased 
accumulation as the dose increased. There was a dose dependency in the time to reach steady state in 
healthy volunteers.  
β
α
phase
Distribution 
 phase, a dominant 
• 
Following  administration  of  a  single  intravenous  dose,  plasma  levels  of  caspofungin  declined  in  a 
polyphasic manner, with a rapid 
 (t1/2β ranged between 9 to 11 hours) and 
a long terminal γ phase (t1/2 approximately 45 h). Distribution plays the prominent role in caspofungin 
plasma  pharmacokinetics  and  is  the  rate-controlling  step  in  both  the  α  and  β  disposition  phases.  
The  distribution  into  tissues  was  slow,  illustrated  by  a  low  plasma  clearance  (10-12  ml/min),  and  it 
peaked at 1.5 to 2 days postdose when 92 % of the dose was distributed into tissues. Vc, Vss, Vz were 
estimated  to  be  about  4  l,  10  l  and  25  l  respectively.  It  is  likely  that  only  a  small  fraction  of  the 
caspofungin  taken up into tissues  returns to plasma as  parent  compound. This suggests that the  free 
caspofungin  concentrations  in plasma  and tissue  essentially  never reach  distribution  equilibrium and 
that the elimination occurs in the absence of distribution equilibrium. 
Caspofungin is highly bound to plasma proteins (97 %). The blood/plasma ratio was 0.74 indicating a 
limited distribution to erythrocytes.  
10/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


The distribution of caspofungin into the brain of uninfected animals (rats and mice) was low, but data 
from preclinical models of disseminated candidiasis showed sterilisation of the brains of mice treated 
with caspofungin.  
Metabolism 
• 
Caspofungin  undergoes  spontaneous  degradation  to  the  ring-opening  intermediate  compound  
L-747969,  which  is  the  predominant  component  of  extractable  plasma  radioactivity  5  to  20  days 
following a single dose. In vitro, it was shown that two reactive intermediates are formed during the 
degradation of caspofungin to L-747969 and that they may form covalent adducts to plasma proteins. 
Further metabolism appears to proceed through peptide hydrolysis to constituent amino acids or their 
degradates  and  subsequent  N-acetylation.  Two  polar  metabolites  (M1  and  M2)  were  identified  as 
dihydroxyhomotyrosine and its N-acetyl derivative, respectively. All the metabolites found in humans 
were also present in animals. Caspofungin is not metabolised through cytochrome P450 system but the 
enzymes involved have not been identified.  
Elimination 
• 
After  administration  of  3H-caspofungin,  the  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  radioactivity  was  12  to 
15 days. Unchanged drug constituted the majority of the radioactivity in plasma and urine during the 
first  24  to 30  h  after  administration.  Recovery  was  only  75  %:  41  %  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in 
urine,  predominantly in  the  form  of  the  polar  metabolites  (M1  and  M2)  and  34  %  in  faeces  during 
27 days.  Renal  excretion  of  unchanged  drug  represents  only  1.4  %  of  the  total  dose.  There  was  no 
information regarding the metabolites in faeces, but that was considered acceptable in the context of 
the applied indication.  
Modest  but  statistically  significant  reductions  (20  to  25  %)  in  C1h  were  seen  in  patients  with 
candidiasis compared to healthy volunteers after multiple doses of 50 and 70 mg. A small reduction in 
AUC0-24 was found (10 % increase at 50 mg to 12 % decrease at 70 mg). There was a trend for greater 
C24h compared to healthy volunteers (6 % and 11 % increases at 50 and 70 mg respectively).  
Limited  data  showed  that  the  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  caspofungin  in  patients  with  IA  appears 
similar to the one obtained in patients with candidiasis. 
In the population pharmacokinetic studies in patients with candidiasis, weight was found to influence 
statistically  significantly  the  AUC0-24,  C1h  and  C24h.  There  was  a  clear  tendency  towards  reduced 
exposure  (C24h) in patients weighing > 70-80 kg. The average exposure in a patient weighing 80 kg 
was predicted to be about 23 % lower than in a patient weighing 60 kg.  This finding, together with the 
inter-individual  variability  raised  the  question  of  establishing  a  weight-based  adjustment  of  the 
maintenance dose to ensure adequate exposure in all patients. 
• 
Special population 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
Two  studies  were  performed  to  evaluate  the  potential  effect  of  caspofungin  in  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment.  In  a  single  dose  study  (70  mg  dose),  AUC  increased  by  55  %  in  patients  with  mild 
impairment (Child Pugh score 5 to 6) and by 76  % in patients with moderate impairment (Child Pugh 
score  7  to  9).  In  a  multiple  doses  study  (70  mg  loading  dose  followed  by  50  mg  daily),  a  less 
pronounced  effect  of  mild  hepatic  impairment  on  caspofungin  pharmacokinetics  was  observed.  
On Day 1, AUC was only 15 % increased compared with normal subjects. On the basis of these data, 
no  dosage  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients  mild  hepatic  impairment.  The  protocol  of  the 
multiple doses study was amended to evaluate the effect of a maintenance dose of 35 mg in patients 
with  moderate hepatic insufficiency. Preliminary  results showed that  a reduction  of the  maintenance 
dose  to  35  mg  daily  provided  an  AUC  similar  to  that  observed  in  subjects  with  normal  hepatic 
function  receiving  50  mg  daily.  Therefore  a  reduction  of  the  maintenance  dose  to  35  daily  was 
considered adequate in this population as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Currently  there  is  no  data  to  recommend  any  dosage  adjustment  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
impairment,  and  therefore  caspofungin  should  be  used  with  caution  in  this  population  as  a  higher 
exposure than in moderate hepatic insufficiency is expected in severe hepatic insufficiency.  
Patients with renal impairment 
11/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The  influence  of  renal  function  on  caspofungin  pharmacokinetics  was  evaluated  in  a  specific  study 
(after  single  70  mg  dose)  in  36  patients  with  different  degree  of  renal  function.    Caspofungin 
pharmacokinetics  were  unchanged  in  mild  renal  impairment  while  clearance  decreased  in  moderate, 
severe and end stage renal disease. An increase in AUC of 31, 49 and 30 % was observed respectively 
in moderate, severe and end stage renal disease. Caspofungin was not cleared by dialysis.  
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  study  in  patients  infected  with  aspergillosis  (P019),  there  was  a 
moderate  increase  in  mean  exposure  in  the  groups  with  different  degree  of  renal  impairment. 
However,  the  inter-individual  variability  in  caspofungin  plasma  concentrations  is  increased  in  these 
patients.  Overall,  the  increase  was  considered  modest  and  therefore  no  dosage  adjustment  in  these 
patients is recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
The pharmacokinetics profile of caspofungin has not yet been evaluated in children or adolescents. 
Elderly  patients  had  a  30  %  increase  in  AUC0-24h  and  C24h  due  to  slower  elimination,  however,  no 
the 
dosage  adjustment 
pharmacokinetics  of  caspofungin,  but  it  was  considered  insufficient  to  recommend  any  dosage 
adjustment.  Race  (Caucasian,  Black,  Hispanic  and  Mestizo)  was  not  identified  as  a  covariate 
influencing the pharmacokinetics of caspofungin. 
is  considered  necessary.  There  was  a  small  effect  of  gender  on 
Interaction studies 
• 
As already mentioned, in vitro and in vivo data showed that caspofungin is not metabolised by CYP 
isoforms, and is  neither inhibitor/inducer  of CYP450 isoenzymes  nor a substrate  for P-glycoprotein. 
Potential interactions between caspofungin and antifungal or immunosuppressive agents that are most 
susceptible  to  be  co-administered  with  caspofungin  were  evaluated  in  healthy  volunteers.  In  these 
studies,  caspofungin  was  administered  for  10-14  days  at  clinical  doses  (50  mg  daily  with  a  70  mg 
loading  dose). The  concomitant  compounds  were  generally  administered as  a  single  dose. The  main 
results are summarised below. 
Caspofungin had no or little effect on amphotericin B (AmB), itraconazole and mycophenolate mofetil 
pharmacokinetics and  vice  versa. In the itraconazole interaction study, the incidence  of rash seemed 
higher with combination treatment than with caspofungin alone, but the data were too scarce to draw 
firm conclusions. As already indicated, the combined treatment of caspofungin with other antifungal 
agents will be further evaluated in vitro and in animal models. 
When  caspofungin  was  co-administered  with  tacrolimus  (2  x  0.1  mg/kg  dose  given  12  h  apart),  
the  pharmacokinetics  of  caspofungin  was  not  affected  while  AUC  and  trough  concentrations  of 
tacrolimus  were  decreased  by  20  and  26  %  respectively.  The  mechanism  for  this  interaction  is 
currently  unknown.  Although  the  amplitude  of  the  interaction  is  modest,  it  can  be  clinically 
meaningful and therefore  monitoring  of tacrolimus trough  concentrations and  dosage  adjustment  are 
recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Caspofungin  had  no  or little  effect  on  cyclosporin  A  (CsA)  pharmacokinetics  using  either CsA as  a 
single  dose  of  4  mg/kg  or  multiple  doses  of  2  x  3  mg/kg  given  12  hours  apart.  On  the  other  hand, 
increases in the caspofungin AUC and C24hr by about 35 % and 60 to 100 % were reported. A similar 
effect was observed in the preclinical studies. The combination resulted in transient elevations in liver 
enzymes (ASAT/ALAT) mostly between 1 and 2 fold the upper limit of normal (ULN), but some up 
to  3  times  ULN.  It  was  suggested  that  the  mechanism  of  interaction  involved  the  distribution  of 
caspofungin  into  tissues  rather  than  the  metabolism  of  caspofungin.  Further  studies  will  be  initiated 
before  drawing  definite  conclusions  on  any  dosage  recommendations.  In  the  meantime  the 
combination  should  be  used  with  caution  and  monitoring  of  the  liver  tests  should  be  considered  as 
indicated in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
A screening for other potential interactions was performed in the population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Caspofungin  concentrations  were  reduced  during  concomitant  medication  with  CYP  inducers  in 
candidiasis  patients.  Preliminary  results  from  an  interaction  study  showed  that  rifampicin  (600  mg 
daily) caused a 61 % increase in caspofungin AUC (90 % CI: 1.46-1.79)  and 170 % increase in C24h 
(90  %  CI:  2.206-3.31)  on  day  1  of  the  co-administration  of  the  two  substances  (caspofungin 
12/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered  at  50  mg  daily).  Caspofungin  trough  levels  gradually  decreased  and  after  14  days  of  
co-administration,  rifampicin  had  limited  effect  on  AUC  (12  %  increase;  90  %  CI:  0.97-1.30)  but 
trough levels  were 30 % lower than in subjects who received  caspofungin alone.  The  mechanism  of 
this  interaction  could  possibly  be  related  to  an  initial  inhibition  of  transport  proteins  followed  by  a 
subsequent induction. A similar effect could be expected with other substances that induce metabolic 
enzymes.  In  order  to  increase  the  trough  levels  during  concomitant  administration  of  inducers  of 
metabolic  enzymes,  the  increase  of  the  daily  dose  of  caspofungin  to  70  mg,  following  the  70  mg 
loading dose should be considered as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Clinical efficacy  
The efficacy of caspofungin in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA) was evaluated in one non-
comparative  study  involving  adult  patients,  including  patients  with  severe  underlying  diseases  and 
immune  dysfunction,  who  were  refractory  to  or  intolerant  of  standard  therapies:  the  Aspergillus 
salvage study (Protocol 019). 
In addition the results from a compassionate use study (Protocol 024/025) and from a historical control 
study (Protocol 028/029), which was closely modelled after the protocol study 019 and described the 
efficacy of standard antifungal therapy in IA, were provided.  
Supportive  efficacy  data  derived  from  randomised  comparative  Phase  II  studies  in  patients  with 
oesophageal  and/or  oropharyngeal  candidiasis.  Supportive  safety  data  included  also  results  from  the 
completed  phase  III  study  P020  (caspofungin  versus  fluconazole  in  the  treatment  of  Candida 
oesophagitis),  the  ongoing  phase  III  study  P014  (caspofungin  versus  AmB  in  treatment  of  invasive 
candidiasis)  and  ongoing  phase  III  study  P026  (caspofungin  versus  lipid  formulation  of  AmB  in 
empirical treatment of fever and neutropenia). 
The table 1 provides an overview of the clinical programme with caspofungin. 
Table 1: overview of the clinical programme with caspofungin 
Protocol/ Title/N 
Phase  Major Entry Criteria 
Treatment Daily 
Doses/Duration 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
Efficacy in Invasive Aspergillosis 
IIb 
III 
NA 
019 [P019] 
Invasive Aspergillosis 
Study 
n= 58 (+11) 
024/025 [P024] 
Compassionate Use 
Protocol 
(n=3) 
028/029 [P028] 
Historical Control 
Study 
(n=206) 
Definite or probable 
Aspergillus infection, and 
refractory to or intolerant 
of standard antifungal 
therapy 
Definite or probable 
Aspergillus infections; 
invasive candidiasis, 
oropharyngeal candidiasis, 
or oesophagitis and 
refractory or intolerant of 
standard antifungal 
therapy 
Definite or probable 
Aspergillus infection 
treated between 1995-
1998 with at least 7 days 
of standard antifungal 
therapy. 
Caspofungin  
70 mg x 1 day, then 
50 mg daily/variable  
Caspofungin  
70 mg x1 day, then 
50 mg daily/variable  
Resolution or clinically 
meaningful improvement in 
symptoms, signs, and 
radiographic or bronchoscopic 
abnormalities.  
Resolution or clinically 
meaningful improvement in 
symptoms, signs, and 
radiographic or bronchoscopic 
abnormalities. 
Minimum of 7 days 
of therapeutic doses 
of standard antifungal 
therapy 
Resolution or clinically 
meaningful improvement in 
symptoms, signs, and 
radiographic or bronchoscopic 
abnormalities. 
Efficacy in Candidiasis (supportive studies) 
003 [P003] 
Pilot Candida 
oesophagitis study  
(n= 128 ) 
IIa 
Microbiologically 
documented Candida 
oesophagitis 
007 [P007] 
Candida oesophagitis 
PK Study (n=14)   
IIa 
Microbiologically 
documented Candida 
oesophagitis 
Caspofungin  
50, 70 mg daily  
versus   
Amphotericin B 
0.5 mg/kg daily/14 
days  
Caspofungin 50 mg, 
70 mg daily/ 14 days  
Evaluation of symptoms and 
endoscopy. 
Pharmacokinetics in patients with 
fungal infections.    
13/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol/ Title/N 
Phase  Major Entry Criteria 
IIb 
Microbiologically 
documented 
oropharyngeal candidiasis 
or oesophageal candidiasis  
004 [P004] 
Dose-Response 
oropharyngeal 
Candidiasis or 
oesophageal 
Candidiasis Study 
(n=140) 
Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
Evaluation of symptoms and 
oropharyngeal exam or 
endoscopy. 
Treatment Daily 
Doses/Duration 
Caspofungin   
35, 50, 70 mg daily 
versus  
Amphotericin B 
 0.5mg /kg daily/ 10-
14 days  
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose-response studies  
No formal dose-response study was performed to define the optimal dosage regimen of caspofungin in 
the treatment of IA.  
The dosing regimen  was selected based on an integration of data from in vitro susceptibility testing, 
animal models of IA and disseminated candidiasis, clinical pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers and 
Phase II studies in patients with oropharyngeal and/or oesophageal candidiasis (studies P003 and P004 
described in table 1). Single dose pharmacokinetic data in healthy volunteers demonstrated that the beta 
phase  half-life  of  caspofungin  was  9  to  11  hours,  supporting  the  selection  of  a  once  daily  dosing 
regimen. 
The initial study (P003) showed that  both doses  of  caspofungin (50  mg and 70  mg  daily)  were  well 
tolerated  and  appeared  at  least  as  effective  as  AmB.  No  statistically  significant  difference  could  be 
observed between the two doses. 
In  the  second  study  (P004),  there  was  no  evidence  of  dose-related  toxicity  over  the  range  of  doses 
tested (35 mg, 50 mg and 70 mg). All 3 caspofungin doses appeared at least as effective as AmB, and 
there  was no evidence  for increased  efficacy  for 70  mg dose  as compared to 50  mg dose. Therefore  
the 50 mg daily dose was considered the appropriate dose for the subsequent clinical studies.  
Based  on  in  vitro  susceptibility  testing  data,  as  presented  in  Pharmaco-toxicological  part  of  this 
document,  it  was  targeted  to  maintain  plasma  caspofungin  levels  above  1.0  µg/ml  throughout  the 
dosing interval. Pharmacokinetic data demonstrated that the 50 mg dose produced target trough levels 
below 1 µ g/ml early in the course of therapy. On the other hand, a 70-mg loading dose followed by a 
daily dose of 50 mg produced caspofungin trough levels above 1.0 µ g/ml from the first day of therapy 
and  achieved  steady  state  more  rapidly.  In  addition,  the  population  pharmacokinetics  in  Phase  II 
oesophagitis studies suggested that caspofungin levels in patients were higher and more variable than 
levels seen in healthy volunteers and an increased exposure  (C24h and AUC) could be associated with an 
increased rate of favourable response. 
Thus,  the  use  of  a  70  mg  loading  dose  was  recommended  in  the  subsequent  Phase  II/III  studies  of 
invasive infections due to Candida or Aspergillus.  The 40 % increase in the loading dose relative to 
the  maintenance  dose  was  consistent  with  the  moderate  level  of  accumulation  observed  in  the 
pharmacokinetic studies. There are no data however on the maximum tolerated dose of caspofungin. 
Although  the  proposed  dosage  regimen  (loading  dose  of  70  mg  followed  by  50  mg  once  daily) 
maintains mean trough concentrations above 1 µg/ml and have been shown safe and effective in the 
treatment  of  IA,  concerns  were  raised.  Indeed  the  target  through  concentration  of  1  µg/ml  was 
insufficiently supported and the risk that patients with high body weight were undertreated could not 
be  excluded  since  there  was  a  clear  tendency  towards  reduced  exposure  in  patients  weighing  more 
than 70-80 kg. Additional simulations of the exposure obtained with different dosage regimens were 
presented during the oral explanation and subsequent  written responses. Although the clinical benefit 
of  increasing  the  maintenance  dose  in  patients  with  higher  body  weights  was  not  demonstrated,  no 
increased  safety  risk  associated  with  higher  dosages  were  anticipated.  As  the  serious  nature  of  IA 
infection  requires  that  precautions  are  taken  to  ensure  adequate  exposure  in  all  patients,  80  kg  was 
chosen as the appropriate cut-off weight at which to apply dose adjustment of the maintenance dose 
14/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i.e. increasing from 50 mg q.d. to 70 mg q.d.). Protocols of some ongoing clinical studies have been 
amended to further define the adequacy of higher doses. 
Main study: Aspergillus salvage study (P019 + P019S) 
• 
Description of the study 
This  was  a  multicentre,  open-label,  non-comparative  study  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability  and 
efficacy  of  caspofungin  acetate  in  the  treatment  of  Aspergillus  infections  in  patients  who  were 
refractory  to  or  intolerant  of  AmB,  lipid  formulations  of  AmB  or  azoles.  Sixty-nine  patients  were 
enrolled by 30-Apr-2000.  
Patients  were  required 
infection  (radiographic  evidence  plus  culture, 
histopathology or antigen detection), and to have definite extrapulmonary aspergillosis and definite or 
probable pulmonary aspergillosis.  
to  have  documented 
Definite disease was defined as a positive culture or histopathology from an invasive procedure plus 
appropriate clinical and radiographic findings.   
Probable pulmonary aspergillosis required an appropriate clinical setting, radiographic abnormalities 
consistent with IA, and either positive cultures from sputum or bronchoalveolar lavage or repeatedly 
positive tests for the detection of antigen (galactomannan ELISA) or DNA polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR).  Patients were upgraded to definite disease if at a later surgical procedure or autopsy, they were 
found to have Aspergillus by histopathology.   
These definitions of infection are modelled according to the Mycoses Study Group (MSG) criteria and 
are  consistent  with  the  new  joint  recommendations  regarding  the  definitions  for  invasive  fungal 
infections  that  have  been  developed  by  the  MSG  and  the  European  Organization  on  Research  and 
Treatment  of Cancer (EORTC). These  criteria  were therefore  considered  acceptable. A  concern  was 
raised with respect to the use of PCR and galactomannan ELISA for the diagnostic criteria since these 
methods are not yet validated. The applicant, however, demonstrated that the outcome in the patients 
who  had  a  final  diagnostic  based  on  these  methods  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  other  patients  with 
pulmonary aspergillosis based on positive cultures. 
Patients of both sexes were included if they met criteria for Aspergillus diagnosis to be refractory to or 
intolerant of other antifungal agents.  
Refractory  was  defined  as  demonstrating  progression  of  infection  or  failure  to  improve  after  a 
minimum of 7 days of therapeutic doses of effective antifungal treatment (i.e. AmB, lipid formulations 
of AmB, itraconazole, investigational azoles with activity against Aspergillus).   
During  the  scientific  advice  procedure,  the  CPMP  recognised  that  in  general,  the  definition  of 
refractoriness is  of  major  importance in studies aiming  at showing  activity  of a salvage regimen. In 
addition  a  non-comparative  design  could  only  be  acceptable  if  strictly  refractory  patients  were 
assessed individually on a case by case basis.  
Intolerance  was  defined  as  a  doubling  of  creatinine  or  creatinine  ≥  2.5  mg/dl  while  on  standard 
therapy, creatinine ≥ 2.5 mg/dl due to another pre-existing condition, or other significant intolerance to 
AmB or lipid formulations of AmB.   
All  systemic  antifungal  therapy  was  to  be  discontinued  prior  to  study  entry.  Patients  received 
caspofungin  acetate  administered  intravenously  (70  mg  day  1  followed  by  50  mg/day  as  a  single  1 
hour  infusion).  The  duration  of  treatment  was  based  on  severity  of  the  patient’s  underlying  disease, 
recovery  from  immunosuppression  and  rapidity  of  clinical  response.  If  possible,  therapy  was  to  be 
administered for a minimum of 28 days and at least 7 days after resolution of symptoms. Maximum 
duration of therapy was 90 days but could be extended on a case-by-case basis. The planned duration of 
the follow-up was 4 weeks after treatment discontinuation. 
Primary/secondary endpoints 
15/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with a favourable response at the end of treatment 
i.e.  either  complete  (resolution  of  all  attributable  clinical  and  radiographic  findings  of  infection)  or 
partial  (clinically  significant  improvement  in  attributable  clinical  and  radiographic  findings)  clinical 
response.  Unfavourable  response  was  qualified  as  non-improvement  (i.e  stable  disease)  or 
deterioration of the patient condition. 
Patients  were  also  evaluated  for  evidence  of  relapse  (recurrence  of  infection  after  a  favourable 
response at end of treatment) at a follow-up visit 4 weeks after discontinuation of intravenous therapy.   
Microbiological outcome was evaluated as a secondary endpoint and was assessed for all patients for 
whom the diagnosis was based on culture. 
Statistical analysis 
This  was  analysed  as  an  estimation  study.  Ninety  five  percent  exact  confidence  intervals  were 
calculated  for  the  overall  group  proportions.  A  modified  intention-to-treat  (MITT)  analysis  was 
initially  the  primary  analysis  for  evaluation  of  efficacy.  However  the  analysis  performed  by  the 
Independent Experts Panel, who reviewed all the cases, became the primary and conclusive efficacy 
analysis. This change was considered appropriate. 
• 
Results 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
Of the 69 patients enrolled, 58 completed treatment by the data cut-off of 7-Feb-2000 (P019) and were 
reviewed by the Independent Expert Panel. Eleven (11) additional patients completed therapy and had 
data available by 19-Apr-00 (P019S). The baseline  characteristics for patients  enrolled in study P019 
and the supplement P019S are displayed in table 2. 
16/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Baseline characteristics 
P019 (n = 58) 
35/23 (60.3 %/39.7 %) 
P019S (n = 11) 
11/0 (100.0 % 0.0 %) 
10 (90.9 %) 
1 (9.1 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
55 (94.8 %) 
2 (3.4 %) 
1 (1.7 %) 
42.2 
15-71 
N = 9 with IA 
48.4 
20-71 
N = 56 with IA 
Gender : male/female (n %) 
Race  
Caucasian  
Hispanic 
Black 
Age (Years) 
Mean 
range 
Site  of  Aspergillus  infection  (final  diagnosis 
based on Expert Panel assessment) 
Pulmonary, probable 
Pulmonary, definite 
Disseminated 
Sinus 
Central nervous system 
Skin 
Pulmonary/sinus 
Refractory  or  intolerant  (diagnosis  based  on 
Expert Panel assessment) 
Refractory 
Intolerant 
Underlying disease 
Haematologic malignancies 
Organ transplant 
Solid tumour 
Other risk factors/no clear risk factors 
Neutropenic status 
Absolute neutrophil count < 500 
Absolute neutrophil count > =  500 
* includes patients with stem cell transplants 
* includes: corticosteroids (4), no risk factor (2), methotrexate use (1), skull trauma (1), mycobacterial infection (1) 
*** includes a patient with GVHD from BMT for Wiskott Aldrich Syndrome and a patient with no risk factor 
17 (30.4 %) 
23 (41.1 %) 
10 (17.9 %) 
4 (7.1 %) 
1 (1.8 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
1 (1.8 %) 
N = 56 with IA 
2 (22.2 %) 
4 (44.4 %) 
3 (33.3 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
N = 9 with IA 
7 (63.6 %) 
1 (9.1 %) 
1 (9.1 %) 
2 (18.2 %)*** 
39 (67.2 %) 
8 (13.8 %) 
2 (3.4 %) 
9 (15.5 %)** 
13 (22.4 %) 
45 (77.6 %) 
46 (82.1 %) 
10 (17.9 %) 
9 (100.0 %) 
0 (0.0 %) 
3 (27.3 %) 
8 (72.7 %) 
The  population  was  very  heterogeneous  with  respect 
to  underlying  diseases,  degree  of 
immunosuppression,  prior  antifungal  treatment  and  rate  of  Aspergillus  progression  at  baseline.  Of 
haematological malignancies (n = 39 in P019), acute myelogenous leukaemia was the most frequently 
reported. Twenty patients had undergone bone marrow and/or peripheral stem-cell transplantation prior 
to study  entry. The distribution of sites  of aspergillosis infection was consistent with that found in the 
literature. Twenty-two patients were receiving high-dose corticosteroid at study entry. 
The  majority  of  refractory  patients  (70  %)  had  received  >  14  days  of  standard  therapy  and  57  % 
received > 21 days.  
Baseline  Aspergillus  isolates  showed  that  A.  fumigatus  was  the  most  common  pathogen  identified, 
followed by A. flavus. 
The  mean  duration  of  caspofungin  therapy  was  31.1  days  ranging  from  1  to  162  days.  In  the 
supplementary P019S, the mean duration of caspofungin therapy was 47 days (range 2 to 144 days). 
Discontinuation 
Less than half of the patients completed the study, including 4 weeks of follow-up (25/58 in P019) and 
the  most  common  reason  for  discontinuing  treatment  was  occurrence  of  clinical  adverse  events.  
As  expected,  mortality  was  high  and  over  half  of  the  patients  died  on  therapy  or  during  follow-up 
either due to progressive aspergillosis or to complications of underlying diseases. 
17/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy Results 
According to the Independent Expert Panel, 54 of 58 patients in P019 and 9 of 11 patients in P019S, 
respectively, fulfilled all the criteria of the study and were included in the efficacy analysis (n = 63). 
Of these 53 were considered refractory and 10 intolerant.  
Response 
At  the  end  of  therapy,  40.7  %  (22/54  patients  in  P019)  and  44.4  %  (4/9  patients  in  P019S)  had  a 
favourable response, as assessed by the Expert Panel, the majority being partial responses: 22 (19 in 
P019  +  3  in  P019S)  versus  4  complete  responses  (3  in  P019  +  1  in  P019S).  If  only  patients  who 
received  >  7  days  of  therapy  are  included,  48.9  %  (22  of  45  patients  in  P019)  and  57.1  %  (4  of  7 
patients in P019S) had a favourable response.  
During the evaluation, however, the CPMP considered that 5 patients originally classified as refractory 
did not fulfil the criteria for refractoriness because of inadequacy of the dose or too short duration of 
the  prior  antifungal  therapy  used.  Therefore  upon  re-evaluation,  48  patients  were  considered 
refractory,  including  39  from  P019.  The  original  efficacy  response  and  the  response  after 
reclassification of the refractory patients are presented in table 3.  
Table 3: Proportion of patients with a favourable overall response at discontinuation of therapy-  
FAVOURABLE RESPONSE (COMPLETE OR PARTIAL) 
Original caspofungin  Protocol 019 
n/m (%) 
Reclassified caspofungin Protocol 019 
n/m (%) 
Refractory  
P019 
P019 + P019S 
Refractory or intolerant 
P019 
P019 + P019S 
15/44 (34.1) 
19/53 (35.8) 
22/54 (40.7) 
26/63 (41.3) 
13/39 (33.3) 
17/48 (35.4) 
20/49 (40.8) 
24/58 (41.4) 
There was essentially no change in efficacy after reclassification of refractory patients. 
The  overall  response  was  analysed  by  disease  characteristics  and  demographics.  The  response  rates 
among  patients  with  pulmonary  disease  and  extrapulmonary  disease  were  47  %  (21/45)  and  28  % 
(5/18) respectively. 
As  expected, response rates  were lower in subgroups  known to be  associated  with  a poor prognosis 
such  as  allogenic  transplants,  neutropenic  patients  and  patients  with  disseminated  disease,  although 
favourable  responses  of  approximately  20  %  were  still  reported  in  these  subgroups.  Similarly  in 
patients  on  high  dose  corticosteroids,  the  overall  favourable  response,  although  decreased,  still 
accounted for 32 %. 
Two  of  the  14  patients  who  were  neutropenic  at  study  entry  had  a  favourable  response,  after  they 
recovered from their neutropenia, while none of the patients who remained neutropenic at the end of 
the treatment (8 of the 14 included) had a favourable response.  
In a small number of patients (4), a surgical debridement or resection was performed which in most 
cases  contributed  to  a  favourable  response  to  the  extent  that the  true  contribution  of  caspofungin  in 
these patients became difficult to evaluate.  
Among patients with  extrapulmonary  disease, 2  of the 8 patients  who also  had  definite, probable  or 
possible  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  involvement  had  a  favourable  response.  Although  precise 
quantification of the amount of caspofungin present in the brain is not available, data supported that 
caspofungin  can  penetrate  into  the  brain  in  the  setting  of  inflammation.  The  potential  efficacy  in 
fungal infections in the CNS has therefore been reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
18/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A review of data on time to response demonstrated that time to initial response was usually not seen 
during  the  first  week  of  caspofungin  treatment  but  appeared  between  10  to  20  days.  Radiographic 
improvement was as expected observed later than the clinical response.  
Microbiological data were limited and it was recognised that microbiological outcomes were difficult 
to assess in patients with IA. There was no apparent relationship between caspofungin MICs for any of 
the  Aspergillus  species  isolated  and  microbiological  and  clinical  outcome  at  discontinuation  of 
treatment. The applicant committed to improve the current methods for susceptibility testing of yeasts 
and filamentous fungi, and to develop methods for quantitating growth of filamentous in vitro and in 
animal models that will increase the sensitivity for determination of efficacy in animal models. 
Follow-up 
Of the 26 patients with a favourable response at the end of caspofungin therapy, 20 were evaluated at 
the 4-week  follow-up visit (3 patients  died prior to  follow-up and 3 were lost to  follow-up). Only  2 
patients had a relapse of IA.  
Following a concern raised related to the absence of longer term clinical data, the applicant provided 
retrospectively  information  on  the  20  patients  who  had  favourable  response  at  the  end  of  4-week 
follow-up visit. In the 3 months post therapy, only one patient died without clear evidence of the cause 
of death or relapse. In the 12-month follow-up, a total of 4 deaths were reported, of which there were 2 
it  was  not  clear  retrospectively  whether  they  were  confirmed 
cases  of  relapse  although 
histopathologically  or  microbiologically  and  whether  they  were  true  relapses  or  recurrences  of  the 
disease.  These  follow-up  data  demonstrated  a  sustained  response  to  caspofungin  in  the  majority  of 
patients after the 4-week of follow-up period. 
As  this  study  is  still  ongoing,  the  protocol  has  been  amended  to  collect  longer  follow-up  data  and 
include  higher  daily  doses.  The  final  results  will  be  provided  as  part  of  specific  obligations  to  be 
fulfilled post authorisation. 
Supportive studies 
• 
Compassionate use study (P024/025) 
This is an  ongoing  non  comparative,  open,  multicentre,  compassionate  use study  aiming to  evaluate 
the  efficacy, safety  and tolerability  of  caspofungin acetate  for the treatment of IA in adults  who are 
refractory  to  or  intolerant  of  AmB  or  lipid  formulation  of  AmB  and  for  the  treatment  of 
oropharyngeal/oesophageal candidiasis and invasive candidiasis.  
Three patients were diagnosed with IA, using the same diagnostic criteria as in study P019 and were 
treated with the same caspofungin regimen. The same Independent Expert Panel reviewed the cases. 
Baseline Characteristics 
One  patient  with  aplastic  anaemia  and  one  patient  with  advanced  AIDS  had  definite  pulmonary 
aspergillosis.  The third patient with no defined risk factor had disseminated aspergillosis of the lung 
and spine.  All were refractory to standard treatment.  The duration of caspofungin treatment ranged 
from 7 to 89 days. 
Overall Response  
The  Expert  Panel  determined  that  2  of  the  3  patients  had  a  favourable  response.    The  patient  with 
disseminated disease had a complete response.  One of 2 patients who had definite pulmonary disease 
had a partial response.  The other patient  with pulmonary disease, treated only 7 days, was a failure 
and  died  from  complications related to aplastic anaemia shortly after discontinuation of  caspofungin 
therapy.  Final  report  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  specific  obligations  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation 
19/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Historical control Aspergillus study (P028/029) 
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  provide  a  historical  database  for  comparison  with  the  prospective 
Aspergillus salvage therapy. The CPMP, during its scientific advice, considered that this study might 
provide  support  in  the  assessment  of  the  outcome  of  IA  study.  It  was  designed  as  a  multicentre 
retrospective  chart  review  of  patients  with  IA  treated  from  1995  to  1998.  From  the  list  of  potential 
cases  identified  through  hospital  records,  patient  charts  were  abstracted  if  the  patient  met  eligibility 
criteria, including diagnosis of definite or probable IA and treatment with at least 7 days of therapeutic 
doses of standard antifungal therapy. No distinction was made between primary and salvage therapy. 
Data  regarding  the  diagnosis  of  IA,  underlying  disease,  doses  and  duration  of  standard  antifungal 
therapy, and data supporting outcome after treatment were abstracted from hospital records and were 
reviewed  by  the  physician-investigator  at  each  site.  Diagnostic  criteria  for  IA  and  definitions  of 
response were the same as those used in the salvage study. 
Of the 229 eligible patients, 206 patients constituted the refractory or intolerant population, which is 
the  primary  comparator  group  for  efficacy.  At  the  end  of  week  1,  patients  were  considered  either 
refractory if they failed to improve or intolerant if they improved and their creatinine was ≥ 2.5 mg/dl.  
For further comparison, patients were divided in subgroups based on data at week 1 (refractory control 
population = 188; intolerant only population n = 5, 13 being excluding as it was impossible to assign 
them in any of the groups). 
Baseline  demographics  were  generally  similar  to  those  seen  in  the  study  P019.  As  in  study  P019, 
patients received AmB, lipid formulations of AmB, itraconazole or multiple agents but the distribution 
differed  (e.g  14  %  received  multiple  agents  versus  33  %  in  P019).  A.  fumigatus  was  also  the  most 
common pathogen identified at baseline. 
Results 
Overall response  
Study-site  investigators  determined  that  35  (17  %)  of  206  patients  in  the  refractory/intolerant  (R/I) 
population  had  a  favourable  response  at  the  end  of  standard  therapy  (14  complete;  21  partial). 
The  response  in  the  refractory  group  was  14.4  %  (27/188)  and  in  the  intolerant  group  60  %  (3/5 
patients). The proportions of patients with a favourable response were 20 % for those with pulmonary 
IA and 5.6% for those with extrapulmonary IA respectively. None of the 41 patients with disseminated 
disease  had  a  favourable  response.  Response  rates  were  lower  in  subgroups  of  patients  such  as 
neutropenia,  high-dose  corticosteroids,  and  allogenic  transplants.  None  of  the  patients  who  were 
neutropenic  at  the  end  of  therapy  had  a  favourable  response.  Of  the  214  R/I  patients  (206  R/I  +  8 
undefined results at end of therapy), 133 (62.1 %) died during or within 72 hours after discontinuation 
of antifungal therapy.  
Follow-up 
The follow-up period in this study was defined as approximately 4 weeks after the end of therapy and 
included  the  data  that  was  available  during  the period  from  14  to  42  days  after  the  end  of  therapy.   
The data described were collected during this follow-up period.  Of the 35 patients with a favourable 
response, 4 died, 9 patients were lost to follow-up and 21/22 continued to have a favourable response. 
One patient died in a relapse of IA. 
Exploratory analysis: P019/P019S and historical control. 
A  comparison  was  performed  between  historical  control  study  and  the  salvage  therapy  study.  The 
baseline characteristics of the patients in both studies were similar. As the refractory definition in the 
historical control study was broader than in study P019, patients who were truly refractory to standard 
antifungal therapy in study P019 were compared to a group of patients who were not truly refractory 
and would therefore be expected to have a better outcome. Results are displayed in Table 4. 
Across all subgroups the efficacy of caspofungin in the salvage study was consistently greater than the 
efficacy of standard therapy in the historical control study. 
20/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table 4:   Comparison between the proportion of patients with a favourable overall response  at discontinuation 
of  therapy  in  Protocol  P019  (after  reclassification  of  refractory)/P019S  and  historical  control  study 
Favourable response (complete or partial) 
n/m (%) 
Refractory  
P019 
P019 + P019S 
Historical control 
Refractory or intolerant 
P019 
P019 + P019S 
Historical control 
13/39 (33.3) 
17/48 (35.4) 
27/188 (14.4) 
20/49 (40.8) 
24/58 (41.4) 
35/206 (17 %) 
A  more  formal  quantitative  comparison  of  the  results  of  Protocols  019  and  028/029  was  conducted 
using  stepwise  logistic  regression.  For  all  the  different  models  considered,  adjusting  for  the 
distribution  of  well  recognised  risk  factors  (disseminated  disease,  neutropenia,  bone  marrow 
transplantation  and  high  dose  corticosteroids  at  week  1)  the  analysis  demonstrated  that  caspofungin 
was statistically significantly better than standard antifungal therapy in the treatment of patients with 
IA who were refractory to or intolerant of prior therapy. These results provided some support to the 
efficacy of caspofungin. 
An additional comparison was made including only patients in historical control study  who received 
more than 14 days of prior therapy instead of 7 days. In the analysis, 34 of 140 (24.3 %) refractory or 
intolerant  patients  had  a  favourable  response  to  standard  antifungal  therapy  while  when  considering 
refractory patients only 26 of 124 (21 %) had a favourable response. The responses in the caspofungin 
group were higher than the responses in the historical group (41.1 % and 35.4 % respectively).  
• 
Phase II studies in Candida infections (P003, P004, P007) 
Three  studies  in  Candida  infections  were  conducted  in  patients  with  oesophageal  and/or 
oropharyngeal candidiasis and were only supportive since no indication was claimed. Their objectives 
were  to  assess  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  caspofungin  (as  compared  to  AmB),  and  to  determine  the 
optimal dose of caspofungin to treat these patients, and afterwards to use in patients with deep-seated 
tissue infections due to Aspergillus (see above Dose response Studies). 
As  expected,  the  majority  of  infections  were  due  to  C.  albicans.  The  percentage  of  patients  with  a 
favourable microbiological response was similar to the percentage with a favourable clinical response 
and did not appear to depend on the specific pathogens isolated or the MIC at baseline. The number of 
infections due to non-albicans Candida spp. was however too small to draw conclusions. In the cases 
with microbiological persistence, there was little change in MIC (≤ 2-fold increase) for caspofungin.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
Efficacy  studies  of  caspofungin  did  not  target  any  special  populations.  The  study  population  in  the 
Aspergillus salvage study was very heterogeneous including patients with severe underlying diseases 
and  immune  dysfunction,  whereas  the  study  population  in  the  Candida  trials  mainly  consisted  of 
patients with advanced HIV disease.  
The  efficacy  of  caspofungin  in  the  treatment  of  IA  has  not  yet  been  evaluated  in  children  and 
adolescents and therefore is not recommended for use in patients under 18 years of age. A paediatric 
programme  is  under  development  and  data  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  follow-up  measures  to  be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  data  supporting  this  application  derived  from  caspofungin  clinical  pharmacology  studies 
and clinical studies in patients with Aspergillus or Candida infections. This included safety data from 
the  phase  III  randomised  comparative  trial  of  caspofungin  versus  fluconazole  in  oesophageal 
21/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
candidiasis  (P020).  In  addition  blinded  data  on  serious  adverse  events  from  ongoing  studies  P014 
(invasive candidiasis) and P026 (empirical therapy) were provided. Although the indication sought is 
for  the  treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis,  studies  in  patients  with  Candida  infections  provided 
important  supportive  data  since  patients  had  less  severe  diseases  than  the  patients  with  Aspergillus 
infections  and  fewer  confounding  acute  background  illnesses.  Furthermore,  these  were  comparative 
studies and a higher dose of caspofungin was used (70 mg/day for up to 14 days).  
• 
Patient exposure 
In  total,  safety  data  included  843  patients  enrolled  in  clinical  pharmacology  and  clinical  studies. 
Overall 623 patients received caspofungin acetate; 478 (553 if the subjects who were enrolled in the 
Phase  I  caspofungin  interaction  studies  are  included)  received  caspofungin  at  doses  >  50 mg,  and 
220  received  placebo/comparator  agents.  Twelve  phase  I  studies  enrolled  312  subjects,  of  whom  
274  received  caspofungin;  191  received  caspofungin  alone  and  83  received  caspofungin  with  other 
agents,  either  as  single  dose  or  as  multiple  doses.  The  safety  data  of  caspofungin  from  the  clinical 
studies included both Candida (n = 277) and Aspergillus (n = 72) infections. In the Candida trials, 50 
mg was the most commonly administered dose for a mean duration of therapy of 16 days. The total 
duration of  exposure to  caspofungin 50  mg in patients with IA  was longer, with a  mean  duration  of 
therapy of 33.7 days (ranging from 1 to 162 days). The number of patients who received caspofungin 
treatment for at least 28 days was however limited (33 in study P019, 2 in the compassionate use study 
and 1 in the pharmacokinetic study in Candida oesophagitis). 
• 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
There  was  no  death  in  the  caspofungin  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  In  the  Candida  clinical  trials 
deaths  occurred  in  15/263  patients  receiving  caspofungin  and  in  13/182  receiving  AmB  or 
fluconazole. In the Aspergillus study (P019/P019S) 38/69 (55 %) patients died (162/206 (78.6 %) in 
the  historical  control study). Because  of the  complexity  of the  patient’s  clinical  courses, attributable 
mortality in the caspofungin Aspergillus study was not specifically determined.   The primary efficacy 
endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  patients  with  a  favourable  response  but  information  regarding  death 
during  treatment  and  follow  up  was  collected,  and  investigators  reported  the  cause  of  death  for 
patients  based  on  their  clinical  judgement.    The  information  regarding  investigator  defined  cause  of 
death combined with the available autopsy data was used to define a conservative estimate that 24 of 
the 38 deaths were due to IA or its consequences. 
The majority of serious adverse events (SAEs) occurring during the clinical trials were not considered 
to  be  related  to  caspofungin.  In  the  Candida  trials  there  were  no  SAEs  reported  in  the  caspofungin 
groups  versus  4.5  %  and  1.1%  in  the  AmB  and  in  the  fluconazole  groups,  respectively.  The  SAE 
described  (pulmonary  infiltrates)  was  the  only  clinical  SAE  considered  related    to  caspofungin  that 
was reported in the patients with IA in the caspofungin Aspergillus study.  There was also a laboratory 
SAE of hypercalcemia that was considered caspofungin-related by the investigator. 
The  most  frequently  reported  clinical  adverse  events  related  to  caspofungin  in  the  Candida  studies 
were  consistent  with  those  reported  overall  and  included  fever,  phlebitis/thrombophlebitis  and/or 
infused vein complication, and to a lesser extent headache and nausea. Most reactions were mild, non-
serious  and  of  short  duration,  and  very  few  of  them  led  to  discontinuation  of  therapy.  The  overall 
incidence  of  clinical  and  laboratory  adverse  events  was  generally  comparable  to  that  observed  with 
fluconazole and was better than that observed with AmB.  
In  the  P019  study,  the  adverse  experience  profile  was  generally  similar  to  that  observed  in  the 
controlled clinical studies for Candida infections, but patients in this study were more severely ill and 
had  several  background  conditions,  making  a  safety  evaluation  difficult.  There  are,  however,  no 
comparative  data  with  AmB  or  the  less  toxic  lipid  formulations  of  AmB  or  itraconazole  in  these 
patients.  Moreover,  study  P019  was  performed  in  a  limited  number  of  patients  of  which  very  few 
received extended therapy (only 33 patients received > 28 days of therapy, including 19 for 29 to 60 
days, 8 for > 60 days, and only 4 for > 90 days). Therefore, it is not possible to draw conclusions on 
the long term safety profile of caspofungin. 
22/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caspofungin  caused  irritation  at  injection  sites  in  preclinical  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies,  especially 
when  extravasation  of  dosing  solution  occurred.  Pre-  and  post-dose  flushing  with  saline  markedly 
reduced  these  reactions.  In  the  controlled  Candida  studies,  local  reactogenicity,  in  terms  of 
caspofungin related phlebitis and infused vein reactions (30/164, 18.3% in the 50 mg group and 10/65, 
15.4% in the 70 mg group) were similar to AmB (20/89, 22.5%) and fluconazole (16/93, 17.2%). Most 
injection site reactions were  mild/moderate and did not result in treatment discontinuation. Although 
no special precautions are currently warranted, serious local reactions will be closely monitored during 
the post-marketing phase. 
Rash  occurred  in  27  (8  %)  of  the  approximately  340  patients  in  the  phase  II/III  who  received 
caspofungin  and  mostly  in  HIV  patients  with  oesophageal/oropharyngeal  candidiasis.  Most  patients 
experiencing rash had underlying  conditions and concomitant medications, therefore a causal role of 
caspofungin is uncertain. Most rashes seemed mild and only 2 patients had to discontinue treatment. 
Although results from the interaction study suggested a higher incidence of rash when caspofungin is 
co-administered  with  itraconazole,  there  was  no  apparent  relationship  between  the  administration  of 
itraconazole and rash in study P019.  
Based  on  preclinical  observations,  reactions  due  to  histamine  release  were  carefully  monitored  in 
human clinical trials. In the first phase I multiple dose study (study P002), local erythema and pruritus 
were  frequently  reported. To  confirm  whether  or  not  these reactions  were related to local  histamine 
release,  a  small  study  was  performed  to  evaluate  any  potential  benefit  of  pre-treatment  with 
antihistamine. There was no evidence that antihistamine treatment would be beneficial and therefore 
no  pre-treatment  was  recommended  in  Phase  II/III  studies.  In  these  studies,  there  were  reports  of 
symptoms  such  as  rash,  facial  swelling,  erythema,  pruritus  and  hypotension  but  it  was  not  clear  if 
these  were  histamine  mediated.  In  the  compassionate  use  study,  however,  one  patient  with  IA 
experienced stridor, dyspnea and worsening rash during the initial infusion of caspofungin, which are 
consistent  with  acute  systemic  histamine  mediated  reaction.  These  symptoms  resolved  with 
discontinuation of caspofungin and treatment with corticosteroid and diphenhydramine. Therefore, in 
order  to  clarify  the  potential  risk  associated  with  caspofungin,  the  applicant  committed  to  closely 
monitor acute systemic histamine-like reactions during the post-marketing surveillance. 
Hypotension  and  arrhythmias  occurred  in  patients  with  IA,  typically  in  the  setting  of  sepsis  or 
respiratory failure. Respiratory adverse events were reported in patients with pulmonary aspergillosis 
(respiratory  distress/failure)  and  in  patient  in  the  Candida  oesophagitis  studies  (infectious 
bronchitis/pneumonia). None of these events seemed however to be related to caspofungin.   
As mentioned in the Pharmaco-toxicological part of this document, there was evidence of low levels 
of  irreversible  binding  of  caspofungin  degradates  to  plasma  proteins.  Preclinical  studies  did  not 
suggest any pattern of safety reactions due to this effect. No specific adverse reactions were identified 
in the clinical studies that could be related to covalent binding. However, the applicant committed to 
carefully monitor during the post-marketing phase for any unusual serious events that could be related 
to irreversible binding of caspofungin degradates. 
A review of the patients receiving more than 28 days of caspofungin treatment showed that there were 
no specific safety problems related to duration of treatment, but only few patients received extended 
therapy, and thus the long term safety data are currently insufficient.  
• 
Laboratory findings  
The  most  common  caspofungin-related 
increased 
transaminases (AST and ALT). The incidence varied among healthy volunteers (0-6 %), patients with 
candidiasis  (11-24  %)  and  aspergillosis  (14  %).  In  the  latter  study,  alkaline  phosphatase  was  also 
increased  in  21  %  of  patients.  Most  increases  of  ALT/AST  were  <  5-fold  ULN  and  did  not  limit 
therapy.  No  apparent  dose-effect  relationship  was  demonstrated.  The  mechanism  of  transaminase 
elevations is currently unknown. Elevations in ALP were common in patients in study P019, but were 
laboratory  abnormalities 
reported  were 
23/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  associated  with  elevations  in  other  liver  enzymes.  Underlying  conditions  and  concomitant 
medications contributed to the ALP elevations.  
In  addition,  decreased  haemoglobin  and  decreased  haematocrit  were  reported.  Serum  creatinine 
elevations occurred in only 1 patient receiving caspofungin versus 28% of patients receiving AmB. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
No  adverse  effects  on  liver  function  tests  were  observed  in  patients  with  hepatic  insufficiency 
receiving caspofungin.  
The safety of caspofungin in children and adolescents has not yet been established. 
5.   Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Caspofungin  is  a  complex  molecule  isolated  by  chemical  modification  of  a  substance  obtained  by 
fermentation. The problems of poor solid-state stability of the active substance have been overcome, 
by  rational  formulation  in  a  stabilising  matrix,  which  allows  a  sterile  pyrogen-free  lyophilisate, 
suitable  for  parenteral  use,  to  be  obtained.  The  reconstitution  of  this  powder  has  been  studied  and 
selected diluents have been defined, in order to allow a stable solution at ‘room temperature’ to give 
flexibility and ease of handling prior to and during administration. 
The  quality  of  Caspofungin  MSD  was  considered  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In  summary,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  caspofungin, 
which differs from current antifungal agents by its mode of action (glucan synthesis inhibitor), has an 
in  vitro  and  in  vivo  activity  against  Aspergillus,  compatible  with  a  clinical  use  in  invasive 
aspergillosis.  This  was  mostly  shown  in  A.  fumigatus,  but  the  applicant  undertook  to  further 
investigate  the  activity  of  caspofungin  against  other  Aspergillus  species.  Although  the  nature  of  the 
activity  of  caspofungin  against  Aspergillus  (fungicidal/fungistatic)  was  extensively  studied,  some 
uncertainties  still  remain.  In  addition,  based  on  the  results,  it  was  difficult  to  conclude  on  the 
synergistic activity between caspofungin and AmB or fluconazole, however the importance of further 
investigating these combinations in animal models was highlighted.  
The pharmacokinetics profile  of  caspofungin  was adequately  defined, although additional data, such 
as metabolite data in mouse and rabbit will be submitted post-authorisation. Caspofungin distributed 
widely, was highly protein bound, eliminated slowly and excreted mainly by urinary route.  
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  that the  primary  toxicological  targets  were  the  liver  in 
monkeys, effects related to histamine release in rats and injection sites in both species. Based on the 
results from developmental toxicity studies, a potential for reproduction toxicity of caspofungin cannot 
be excluded. Caspofungin crosses to the placental barrier and is excreted in milk. Caspofungin was not 
genotoxic and the absence of carcinogenicity studies was adequately justified. The NOELs identified 
in repeated dose toxicity studies and reproduction toxicity studies corresponded to doses providing a 
low  margin  of  exposure  in  relation  to  expected  clinical  exposure.  The  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics  adequately  reflects  the  toxicological  data  and  includes  relevant  warnings  on  the 
potential risk in pregnancy and breast-feeding. 
24/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  caspofungin  was  generally  well  documented  and  was  considered 
sufficient for the indication sought. Although data in patients with IA were scarce, they suggested that 
the  pharmacokinetic  profile  in  this  population  is  similar  to  the  one  obtained  in  patients  with 
candidiasis.  Adequate  dosage  recommendations  were  defined  for  patients  with  hepatic  and  renal 
impairment.  The  importance  to  further  evaluate  some  combination  regimens,  particularly  the 
association  of  caspofungin  with  AmB  or  itraconazole,  was  highlighted  as  these  compounds  are 
expected to be used in close association.  
The  concern  was raised that proposed  dose  of  caspofungin  (70  mg loading  dose  followed by 50  mg 
once  daily)  would  not  ensure  adequate  exposure  in  all  patients  considering  the  great  inter-patient 
variability in pharmacokinetic parameters, the influence of body weight and the absence of a defined 
relationship between PK/PD. 
Overall  the  efficacy  of  caspofungin  in  adult  patients  with  IA  refractory  or  intolerant  to  AmB,  lipid 
formulation  of  AmB  or  itraconazole,  was  demonstrated  mainly  in  one  open-label,  non-comparative 
study  enrolling  a  limited  number  of  patients.  The  clinical  benefit  of  caspofungin  was  demonstrated: 
35.4  %  (17/48)  of  refractory  patients  receiving  at  least  one  dose  of  caspofungin  had  a  favourable 
response  and 41.4 % (24/58) of refractory  or intolerant  patients had  a  favourable  response.  A  major 
concern  was  the  limited  period  of  follow-up  (only  4  weeks),  especially  considering  the  new 
mechanism of action of this agent. The maintaining of the significant benefit of caspofungin compared 
to standard therapy following adjustment of the number of truly refractory patients was questioned.  
Safety  
Given the life-threatening and poor prognosis of invasive aspergillosis, the safety database, although 
limited,  was  considered  acceptable.  Overall  the  data  did  not  reveal  any  major  safety  concerns.  
The  most  common  adverse  events  were  fever,  infused-vein  complications,  nausea,  vomiting  and 
flushing.  In  the  IA  study,  the  safety  profile  was  generally  similar to  that  observed  in  the  controlled 
clinical studies for Candida infections, but patients in this study were more severely ill and had several 
background  conditions,  making a  safety  evaluation  difficult.  No  comparative  data  with  AmB  or  the 
less  toxic  lipid  formulations  of  AmB  or  itraconazole  are  available  in  these  patients.  The  long  term 
safety  is  currently  unknown  since  only  limited  data  on  treatment  duration  longer  than  2  weeks.  
It  seems  however  that  caspofungin  continues  to  be  well  tolerated  with  longer  courses  of  therapy  
(68 patients received from 15 to 60 days and 12 patients received from 61 to 162 days of treatment). 
The applicant undertook to perform a close post-monitoring surveillance,  with particular attention to 
some specific issues such as histamine-mediated reactions, hepatotoxic reactions and allergic reactions 
related to long-lived caspofungin degradates. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Invasive aspergillosis is a rare, very serious disease with, if untreated, a mortality of 100 %. Despite 
the availability of treatments such as AmB, there is a need for safer and more efficacious compounds 
to treat this life-threatening disease. Caspofungin appeared to be beneficial as salvage therapy in the 
treatment of invasive aspergillosis, since efficacy was demonstrated in truly refractory patients with no 
other therapeutic options.  
During  an  oral  explanation  before  the  CPMP  and  subsequent  written  responses,  the  applicant 
addressed CPMP concerns over the dosage recommendations, the follow-up after treatment stop, the 
fungistatic/fungicidal activity of caspofungin and the co-administration of caspofungin and cycloporin 
A. 
Based on pharmacokinetic considerations, it was agreed to increase the maintenance dose from 50 mg 
to  70  mg  daily  in  patients  weighing  more  than  80  kg,  as  described  in  the  Clinical  part  of  this 
document.  Additional  pharmacokinetic  and  efficacy  data  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  specific 
obligations  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  to  support  the  recommendation  for  higher  doses  of 
caspofungin. 
25/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
As  further  discussed  in  the  Clinical  part  of  this  document,  it  was  demonstrated  that  there  was  no 
difference in  efficacy  following  adjustment  of the  number of truly refractory patients in study P019 
and that the benefit of caspofungin when compared to standard therapy in the Historical Control Study 
remained unchanged. To further substantiate the clinical benefit of caspofungin therapy, the applicant 
undertook to submit final results from studies P019 and P024/025 as part of specific obligations to be 
fulfilled 
With respect to longer follow-up data after treatment stop, the applicant retrospectively presented data 
for  all  patients  with  a  favourable  response  at  the  4-week  follow-up  visit.  Results,  which  are  further 
presented  in  the  Clinical  part  of  this  document,  demonstrated  a  sustained  response  to  caspofungin 
therapy.  To  further  substantiate  the  long  term  clinical  benefit  of  caspofungin  therapy,  the  applicant 
undertook to submit additional data at 3 months follow-up from study P019 and all future studies in 
this  indication  as  part  of  specific  obligations  to  be  fulfilled  and  to  evaluate  the  use  of  secondary 
suppressive antifungal therapy at the end of caspofungin treatment. 
Although the nature of the activity of caspofungin was extensively investigated, caspofungin is neither 
fungicidal nor fungistatic by classical definition but is fungicidal to Aspergillus hyphae at its tips and 
branch points  where  cell  growth  and  division  occur.   The applicant  undertook to  further  clarify this 
issue during the post-authorisation phase. 
With  respect  to  the  combination  with  cyclosporin  A,  there  are  currently  not  enough  data  to 
recommend  any  dose  adjustment  but  studies  are  ongoing.  In  the  meantime  adequate  warning 
concerning the monitoring of liver tests has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
In  addition  the  applicant  undertook  to  evaluate  combination  regimens  with  caspofungin,  results  of 
which will be submitted as part of specific obligations to be fulfilled post-authorisation.  
Finally,  the  applicant  undertook  to  provide  further  data  on  other  outstanding  issues  in  relation  to 
pharmaceutical, toxicological and clinical aspects  of the dossier, as part of follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of caspofungin in the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adult 
patients  who  are refractory  to  or intolerant  of amphotericin B, lipid  formulations  of amphotericin B 
and/or itraconazole was favourable.  
The divergent opinion was that the benefit-risk ratio could not be defined because of, the number of 
patients in which the efficacy and safety of Caspofungin MSD was evaluated was too small; the above 
mentioned  evaluations  were  not  comparative  but based  on  historical  controls and therefore  could be 
heavily  biased;  and  a  fully  reliable  recommendation  on  optimal  dose  and  schedule  of  Caspofungin 
MSD was lacking. 
Considering  the  small  number  of  patients  evaluated  with  limited  follow-up  and  safety  data,  and 
waiting  additional  clinical  data  in  this  indication,  the  CPMP  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation for Caspofungin MSD (50 mg powder for solution for infusion and 50 mg and 
70  mg  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion)  under  exceptional  circumstances  for  the 
following indication: 
“Treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis  in  adult  patients  who  are  refractory  to  or  intolerant  of 
amphotericin B, lipid formulations of amphotericin B and/or itraconazole. Refractoriness is defined as 
progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of prior therapeutic doses of 
effective antifungal therapy”. 
26/26 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
