15 November 2018 
EMA/869774/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Cancidas  
caspofungin 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000379/P46/063 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 3 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 24 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 2/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 22 august 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Cancidas, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  “Protocol  P064  clinical  study:  a  Multicentre,  Double-  Blind,  Randomized, 
Comparator-Controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety,  Tolerability,  and  Efficacy  of  Caspofungin  Versus 
Amphotericin  B  Deoxycholate  in  the  Treatment  of  Invasive  Candidiasis  in  Neonates  and  Infants  Less 
Than 3 Months of Age” is a stand alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 50 and 70 mg 
Cancidas was intravenously administered as caspofungin acetate (50mg/vial) 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
P064 clinical study: a Multicentre, Double- Blind, Randomized, Comparator-Controlled Study to 
Evaluate  the  Safety,  Tolerability,  and  Efficacy  of  Caspofungin  Versus  Amphotericin  B  Deoxycholate in 
the Treatment of Invasive Candidiasis in Neonates and Infants Less Than 3 Months of Age 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
P064 clinical study: a Multicentre, Double- Blind, Randomized, Comparator-
Controlled Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, and Efficacy of Caspofungin 
Versus Amphotericin B Deoxycholate in the Treatment of Invasive Candidiasis in 
Neonates and Infants Less Than 3 Months of Age 
Description 
This  was  a  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomized,  comparative  study  to  evaluate  the  safety, 
tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  caspofungin  versus  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  in  the  treatment  of 
neonatal  and  infant  invasive  candidiasis.  Neonates  and  infants  less  than  3  months  of  age  with 
documented (culture-confirmed) invasive Candida infection  (ICI) within  96 hours prior to study entry 
were  to  be  randomized  in  a  2:1  ratio  to  receive  either  intravenous  caspofungin  2  mg/kg  (per  body 
weight)  once  daily  infused  over  2  hours  or  intravenous  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  1  mg/kg  (per 
body  weight)  once  daily  infused  over  2  hours.  In  an  effort  to  strive  for  adequate  representation  of 
participants from different weight groups (reflective of participant gestational age) in both intervention 
groups, randomization was stratified into 3 weight categories (based on weight at study entry): <1000 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 3/24 
 
 
 
 
 
grams,  1000  to  1500  grams,  and  >1500  grams.  The  study  was  terminated  early  due  to  operational 
infeasibility prior to enrolling the projected sample size. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objective 
To  compare  caspofungin  to  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  with  respect  to  the  efficacy  endpoint  of 
fungal-free  survival  at  the  2-week  posttherapy  follow-up  visit  (ie,  the  proportion  of  participants  who 
survived  through  the  2-week  posttherapy  follow-up  period  and  had  documented  microbiological 
eradication of Candida sp. from follow-up cultures collected after the initiation of study therapy). 
Secondary objectives 
Efficacy: 
To assess in neonates and infants who are treated with caspofungin or amphotericin B deoxycholate for 
documented invasive candidiasis, fungal-free survival at the end of study therapy (ie, the proportion of 
patients  who  survived  through  the  end  of  study  therapy  visit  period  and  had  documented 
microbiological eradication of Candida sp. from follow-up cultures collected after the initiation of study 
therapy). 
Safety: 
To  assess  the  safety  in  neonates  and  infants  who  are  treated  with  caspofungin  or  amphotericin  B 
deoxycholate for documented invasive candidiasis. 
Exploratory objectives 
To assess in neonates and infants who are treated with caspofungin or amphotericin B deoxycholate for 
documented invasive candidiasis: 
1.  The  proportion  of  participants  in  each  treatment  group  with  evidence  of  Candida 
meningoencephalitis at study entry who had fungal-free survival at the 2-week posttherapy 
follow-up visit. 
2.  The  proportion  of  participants  in  each  treatment  group  with  the  development  of 
complicated candidiasis while on study therapy or during the 8-week posttherapy follow-up 
period.  (NOTE:  The  definition  of  complicated  candidiasis  includes  the  development  of  at 
least  one  of  the  following  on  or  after  Day  5  of  study  therapy:  [a]  valvular  vegetation  or 
mural  thrombus  on  echocardiogram,  [b]  meningitis  documented  by  the  presence  of 
Candida  in  CSF  culture  or  a  CSF  WBC  count  >25  cells/mm3  with  no  other  organism 
identified, [c] evidence of abdominal abscess, or [d] documented endophthalmitis). 
3.  The efficacy profile relative to caspofungin-treated participants with invasive candidiasis in 
the  prior  pediatric  documented  infection  study  (Protocol  043,  children  and  adolescents  [3 
months to 17 years]) and prior adult studies (Protocols 014 and 801). 
Study design 
This  was  a  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomized,  comparative  study  to  evaluate  the  safety, 
tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  caspofungin  versus  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  in  the  treatment  of 
neonatal invasive candidiasis. Approximately 90 neonates and infants less than 3 months of age with 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 4/24 
 
 
 
 
 
documented (culture-confirmed) ICI  within  96 hours  prior to  study entry  were to  be  randomized  in a 
2:1 ratio to receive either intravenous caspofungin 2 mg/kg (per body weight) once daily infused over 
2  hours  or  intravenous  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  1  mg/kg  (per  body  weight)  once  daily  infused 
over  2  hours.  The  study  was  terminated  early  due  to  operational  infeasibility  prior  to  enrolling  the 
projected sample size. 
The  duration  of  study  therapy  with  caspofungin  or  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  was  variable  and 
dependent on  a  variety  of  factors,  including  the  rapidity  of  a  participant’s  clinical  and  microbiological 
response, the participant’s general medical condition, and the underlying site of Candida infection. In 
general, patients were to be treated with study therapy for a minimum of 14 days following the time of 
documented  negative  cultures  from  the  site  of  infection  and  improvement  of  any  clinical  signs  and 
symptoms of invasive candidiasis. The maximum duration of study therapy permitted was 90 days. If 
warranted, permission to extend the duration of therapy could be requested. 
Participants  were  monitored  for  adverse  experiences  while  on  study  therapy  and  during  the  2-week 
posttherapy follow-up period. Selected laboratory safety tests were performed from blood collected at 
screening, on Day 4 (or Day 3 or Day 5) and Day 7 of study therapy, twice weekly thereafter while on 
study  therapy,  on  the  last  day  of  study  therapy,  and  at  the  2-week  posttherapy  follow-up  visit.  A 
physical  examination  was  performed  at  prestudy,  twice  weekly  throughout  the  study  therapy  period 
(including Days 4 and 7), on the last day of study therapy, and at each of the 2 posttherapy follow-up 
visits. 
A detailed description and evaluation of the Candida infection was performed at screening, daily while 
on  study  therapy,  on  the  last  day  study  therapy,  and  at  the  2-  and  8-week  posttherapy  follow-up 
visits. Resolution or progression of the Candida infection was to be documented by assessment of signs 
and  symptoms,  radiographic  studies  (when  clinically  indicated),  and  follow-up  blood  cultures  or,  as 
appropriate, other follow-up cultures (including urine or CSF). Based on all available data, an efficacy 
assessment was to be made at the end of study therapy and at the 2-week posttherapy follow-up visit. 
Caspofungin  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (C2h  [peak]  and  C24h  [trough])  were  also  determined  on 
Days 4 and 7 of study therapy. Sparse plasma PK samples were obtained from different participants on 
Days 4 and 7 to minimize the blood volume needed from each participant. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 5/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessors comments 
This  was  a  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomized,  comparative  study  to  evaluate  the  safety, 
tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  caspofungin  versus  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  in  the  treatment  of 
neonatal  invasive  candidiasis.  Approximately  90  neonates  or  infants  (<3m)  with  confirmed  invasive 
candidiasis  (culture  confirmed)  were  to  be  randomized  (2:1)  to  either  treatment  with  caspofungin  
2mg/kg infused over 2 hours or amphothericin B deoxycholate 1mg/kg infused over 2 hours. Infusion 
time  for  caspofungin  was  different  than  stated  in  the  SmPC.  However  this  was  altered  for  blinding 
reasons,  which  is  acceptable.  Longer  infusion  time  is  sometimes  applied  to  reduce  infusion  related 
toxicities. Therefore this could have an influence on the safety evaluation of caspofungin. 
Treatment  duration  was  variable,  depending  on  rapidity  of  response,  patients  characteristics  and  on 
site  of  infection.  In  general,  patients  were  to  be  treated  at  least  14  days  after  cultures  from  site  of 
infection became negative and improvement in clinical signs and symptoms of invasive candidiasis. 
The  study  design  is  acceptable  to  meet  the  primary  and  secondary  objectives.  The  comparator  is, 
however, not an ideal comparator, since fluconazole or liposomal amphotericin B are used more often 
and  thus  considered  more  as  standard-of-care  by  many  sites,  despite  being  recommended  in 
guidelines (including the IDSA guidelines published in 2016).   
Study population /Sample size 
Inclusion criteria 
Neonates  and  infants  who  were  <3  months  (90  days)  of  age  with  documented  (culture  confirmed), 
invasive  Candida  infection  were  eligible  to  participate  in  this  trial.  Documented  invasive  Candida 
infection was defined as follows: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 6/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  A positive culture for Candida spp. collected from a normally sterile body fluid within 96 hours 
of study entry OR 
-  A  positive  culture  for  Candida  spp.  collected  within  96  hours  of  study  entry  from  a  newly-
placed drain inserted into a normally sterile body site. 
Parent  (or  guardian)  understands  the  study  procedures,  alternative  treatments  available,  and  risks 
involved with the study and voluntarily agree to the patient’s participation by giving written informed 
consent. 
Parent (or guardian) provides written informed consent for the trial. 
Exclusion criteria 
- 
- 
Participant is ≥3 months (≥90 days) of age at the time of informed consent. 
Participant  has  Candida  disease  limited  to  the  oropharynx,  esophagus,  or  other  mucosal  or 
superficial skin surfaces (eg, vagina or other genitalia, colonic tract, skin folds, nail beds, etc.). 
- 
Participant  has  evidence  of  infection  limited  to  a  positive  culture  for  Candida  spp.  From  the 
sputum,  broncho-alveolar  lavage,  catheter  tip,  or  previously  placed  indwelling  nonvascular 
catheters/drains. 
- 
Participant has a prosthetic device (eg, prosthetic heart valve) at a suspected site of Candida 
infection. 
- 
- 
Participant is actively co-infected with a non-Candida fungal organism. 
Participant has received more than 48 hours of systemic (IV or oral) antifungal treatment since 
the  time  the  positive  Candida  index  culture  was  collected  as  therapy  for  this  episode  of 
invasive candidiasis. 
- 
Participant has failed prior systemic (IV or oral) antifungal therapy for this episode of invasive 
candidiasis. 
- 
Participant  has  exclusionary  laboratory  values  obtained  within  48  hours  of  study  therapy 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
initiation. 
Participant is not expected to survive at least 5 days.  
Participant has a diagnosis of acute hepatitis or cirrhosis due to any cause. 
Participant  is  currently  participating  or  has  participated  in  a  study  with  an  investigational 
compound or device. 
Participant has previously participated in this study. 
Participant  is  scheduled  or  anticipated  to  receive  rifampin  or  other  systemic  (IV  or  oral) 
antifungal  therapy  (ie,  an  intravenous  or  oral  formulation  of  the  member  of  the  polyene, 
triazole, or echinocandin class) while on study therapy. 
- 
Participant  has  known  renal  insufficiency,  which,  in  the  investigator's  assessment,  has  the 
potential to worsen as a result of subsequent study therapy with amphotericin B deoxycholate. 
- 
Participant or the participant’s mother has a history of allergy, hypersensitivity, or any serious 
reaction  to  caspofungin  or  another  member  of  the  echinocandin  class  (eg,  micafungin, 
anidulafungin, or aminocandin).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 7/24 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Participant or the participant’s mother has a history of allergy, hypersensitivity, or any serious 
reaction  to  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  or  other  members  of  the  polyene  class  (eg, 
amphotericin  B  lipid  complex,  liposomal  amphotericin  B,  or  amphotericin  B  colloidal 
dispersion). 
- 
Participant has a severe congenital disorder known to lower immune response. 
Sample size 
The study will enroll approximately 60 patients in the caspofungin treatment group and 30 patients in 
the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  treatment  group,  to  achieve  80%  power  (2-sided,  α=0.05)  to 
demonstrate  the  primary  efficacy  hypothesis  that  caspofungin  is  superior  to  amphotericin  B 
deoxycholate  with  regard  to  the  proportion  of  patients  with  fungal-free  survival  at  the  2-week 
posttherapy follow-up visit. The minimum criterion for success is that the lower bound of the 95% CI 
for the difference between the 2 treatment groups (caspofungin minus amphotericin B deoxycholate) in 
the primary efficacy endpoint is >0. 
The sample size is based on an underlying response rate of 50% for the amphotericin B deoxycholate 
treatment  group  from  the  recently  published  comparative  study  in  32  neonates  and  infants  with 
invasive  candidiasis  where  a  favorable  response  was  observed  in  86.7%  of  caspofungin-treated 
patients  and  41.7%  of  amphotericin  B  deoxycholatetreated  patients.  The  study  is  designed  to  have 
80%  power  to  demonstrate  the  superiority  of  caspofungin  over  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  at  an 
overall two-sided, 5% alpha-level, if the underlying treatment difference in fungal-free survival at the 
2-week posttherapy visit is ~30 percentage points (or larger). 
Assessors comments 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable, as well as sample size. 
Treatments 
Caspofungin  was  administered  at  2  mg/kg  once  daily  (with  no  loading  dose).  Amphotericin  B 
deoxycholate was administered at 1 mg/kg once daily.  
Initial dosing with the study medications was based on the participant's actual body weight (in kg) at 
the time of study entry. The participant was weighed at least weekly during the treatment period. The 
study intervention dose (mg) was adjusted as the participant’s weight increased to maintain the mg/kg 
dose of the assigned treatment throughout the study treatment period. 
Caspofungin and amphotericin B deoxycholate were both reconstituted/prepared by an unblinded study 
pharmacist  and  administered  intravenously  over  approximately  2  hours.  The  caspofungin  prescribing 
information indicates that the dose should be administered over 1 hour; however, in this trial, a 2-hour 
infusion duration was used to maintain study blind. As these 2 products differ in color, opaque masking 
was used over the infusion materials to ensure adequate blinding of the treatment group. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy endpoints are summarized below. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 8/24 
 
 
 
 
 
All safety tabulations will use an all-patients-as-treated (APaT) population, which includes all patients 
who receive at least one dose of study therapy. There are no safety parameters that rise to the level of 
formal statistical testing in this study (i.e., no Tier 1 events). 
Assessors comments 
acceptable 
Statistical Methods 
The  primary  hypothesis  will  be  evaluated  by  comparing  the  caspofungin  treatment  group  to  the 
amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  treatment  group  with  respect  to  the  proportion  of  patients  with  fungal-
free survival at the 2-week posttherapy follow-up visit. 
All  efficacy  evaluations  will  use  a  full  analysis  set  (FAS)  patient  population,  which  includes  those 
patients  who  receive  at least  one  dose  of  study  therapy  and  have  a  documented  (culture-confirmed) 
diagnosis  of  invasive  candidiasis  (see  Inclusion  Criteria).  All  patients,  irrespective  of  body  weight  at 
study entry, will be grouped together for the primary evaluation. Subgroup evaluation based on the 3 
body  weight  categories  at  study  entry  (<1000  grams,  1000-1500  grams,  >1500  grams)  will  also  be 
displayed.  Of  note,  a  per-protocol  population  will  also  be  evaluated  for  the  primary  and  secondary 
efficacy endpoints.  
The  treatment  comparisons  for  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  analyses  will  be  made  using  the 
difference  in  response  rates  between  the  2  treatment  groups  and  its  95%  confidence  interval.  The 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 9/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
confidence  interval  for  the  difference  in  response  rates  will  be  calculated  using  a  methodology 
proposed by Miettinen and Nurminen. 
Assessors comments 
acceptable 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Due  to  the  decision  to  terminate  the  study  early,  only  51  of  the  projected  90  participants  were 
randomized into this study. Overall, 34 participants were randomized to the caspofungin group, and 17 
participants randomized to the amphotericin B deoxycholate group. A total of 49 participants received 
study medication, as 1 randomized participant in the caspofungin treatment group died prior to dosing, 
and  1  randomized  participant  in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  treatment  group  discontinued  the 
study  prior  to  dosing  due  to  physician’s  decision.  An  additional  2  participants  in  the  caspofungin 
treatment  group  did  not  have  documented  (culture-confirmed)  invasive  Candida  infections  at  study 
entry.  Therefore,  the  ASaT  population  included  49  participants  and  the  FAS  population  included  47 
participants. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 10/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessors comments 
Due  to  early  study  termination  only  51  of  the  projected  90  participants  were  randomized.  34  were 
randomized to receive caspofungin, 17 to the amphotericin B deoxycholate group. 2 participants never 
received medication, 1 because of early death prior to receiving study treatment (caspofungin) and 1 
discontinued prior to dosing due to physician’s decision. 2 patients did not have documented (culture-
confirmed) invasive candida infection. 
Eighty percent of randomized patients completed the study and 71% completed the study intervention 
regimen. Most common reason for early study discontinuation in both groups was death. Participants 
discontinued  study  treatment  early  was  higher  in  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group.  Most  common 
reason for study intervention discontinuation among caspofungin treatment was an AE. 
One  patient  was  unblinded  by  site  personnel  to  clinical  manage  the  participant,  after  receiving  an 
overdose  of  study  therapy  on  5  occasions  due  to  a  dosage  miscalculation.  No  AEs  were  reported 
associated with overdose. The participant discontinued study therapy. 
Baseline data 
The  participant  population  included  critically-ill  infants  and  neonates  with  culture-confirmed  invasive 
candidiasis. Overall, mean gestational age  was 32.4 weeks . At trial  enrolment  median age  was 22.0 
days, and mean weight was 2042.9 grams. Similar proportions of participants received prior antifungal 
therapy in each intervention group. 
The  most  common  pre-treatment  manifestation  of  invasive  candidiasis  was  candidemia,  seen  in  32 
(68.1%) of the 47 participants in the FAS. 
Of  the  34  participants  from  whom  baseline  isolates  were  available  for  central  laboratory  testing,  30 
participants (88%) had an infection with Candida albicans only; 1 participant (3%) had both Candida 
albicans  and  Candida  glabrata  identified  at  baseline;  and  1  participant  (3%)  had  an  infection  with 
Candida  glabrata  only.  Additionally,  there  was  1  participant  (3%)  with  Candida  intermedia,  and  1 
participant (3%) with Candida tropicalis. All isolates were obtained from blood or urine. There were 4 
participants who had CSF sampling performed at screening, all of which were negative. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 11/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 12/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessors comments 
The  groups  were  generally  well  balanced  for  baseline  characteristics:  age,  gestational  age,  baseline 
weight, birth weight and antifungal prophylaxis. 
Clinical pharmacology 
In  study  P064,  caspofungin  pharmacokinetics  in  plasma  in  neonates  and  infants  (<3  months  of  age) 
were  assessed  following  4  or  7  days  of  daily  dosing  with  2  mg/kg  caspofungin  administered  by 
intravenous infusion over 2 hours. Sparse plasma PK samples were obtained from different participants 
on  Days  4  and  7  to  minimize  the  blood  volume  collected  from  each  participant  as  described  in  the 
protocol [Ref. 5.3.5.1: P064MK0991: 16.1.1]. CSF samples for caspofungin assay were to be collected 
in  this  study  whenever  possible.  Only  one  CSF  sample  was  obtained  and  was  not  assayed  since  it 
would not provide meaningful information.  
Geometric mean peak plasma concentrations (at the end of the 2-hour infusion) of caspofungin  were 
8.58 μg/mg (n=12) and 5.99 μg/mL (n=11) after 4 and 7 days of dosing, respectively and geometric 
mean  trough  plasma  concentration  (~24  hours  after  start  of  infusion)  were  2.93  μg/mL  (n=13)  and 
3.12 μg/mL  (n=12) after  4 and 7 days of dosing, respectively. Caspofungin  peak and trough plasma 
concentrations were comparable after 4 and 7 days of dosing supporting that steady state is achieved 
within 4 days [Ref. 5.3.5.1: P064MK0991: 11.2]. 
In  a  previous  study  in  neonates  and  infants  (<3  months  of  age),  geometric  mean  peak  and  trough 
plasma  concentrations  following  4  days  of  dosing  with  25  mg/m2  caspofungin  administered  by 
intravenous  infusion  over  1  hour  were  10.48  μg/mL  (n=12)  and  2.96  μg/mL  (n=11)  [Ref.  5.3.3.2: 
P058: 11]. Caspofungin pharmacokinetic data from study P064 are not directly comparable to this or 
other  previous  studies  since  caspofungin  was  infused  over  2  hours  in  study  P064  to  maintain  the 
blinding versus a 1-hour infusion used in previous studies and included in the prescribing information. 
Nevertheless, the similarity in trough concentration, in particular, between the two studies in neonates 
and infants suggests caspofungin exposure was comparable. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 13/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessors comments 
In the context of a paediatric study in neonates and infants (<3 months of age), pharmacokinetic data 
may  be  relevant  for  identification  of  sub-groups  in  which  the  exposure  differs  from  the  overall  study 
population  to  a  clinically  relevant  extent.  These  two  groups  present  the  largest  pharmacokinetic 
challenges because rapid developmental changes in absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion 
may  occur.  However,  due  to  the    small  sample  size  enrolled  in  study  P064,  due  to  the  fact  that  PK 
analysis is neither a primary objective nor a  secondary objective in this study and due to the fact the 
time of infusion used (2 hours) is different from the previous studies and from the time recommended 
in  the  labelling,  PK  input  is  limited.    Nevertheless,  some  relevant  information  regarding  the 
pharmacokinetic characteristics can be gathered, especially that  caspofungin  peak and trough plasma 
concentrations were comparable after 4 and 7 days of dosing supporting that steady state is achieved 
within  4  days.  Descriptive  statistics  were  calculated  for  peak,  trough  and  intermediate  caspofungin 
plasma concentrations on Days 4 and 7 and a comparable Ctrough is observed compared to a previous 
study in neonates and infants. The methodology and the analytical methods are deemed adequate for 
the intended PK purpose. 
The  current  dosing  recommendations  in  the  paediatric  population  given  under  4.2  of  the  SmPC 
correspond to the administration of a slow intravenous infusion over approximately 1 hour and not a 2-
hours  infusion.  In  this  context,  the  new  limited  PK  data  do  not  warrant  a  revision  to  the  current 
approved information in sections 4.2 and 5.2. 
Efficacy results 
In the FAS population, the proportion of participants with fungal-free survival at 2 weeks posttherapy 
in  the  caspofungin  treatment  group  (71.0%)  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  the  amphotericin  B 
deoxycholate  treatment  group  (68.8%).  The  adjusted  fungal-free  survival  difference  between  the  2 
treatment  groups  (caspofungin  minus  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate)  and  the  95%  CI  based  on 
Miettinen  &  Nurminen  method  stratified  by  weight  category  was  -0.9  (95%  CI  -24.3  to  27.7). 
Comparable results were also noted in the Per-Protocol population  
No formal subgroup analyses were planned or performed. Descriptive statistics, such as counts and 
percentages by gender, race, and weight stratification categories (<1000g, 1000-1500g, >1500g), and 
use of prestudy systemic (oral or IV) antifungal prophylaxis, are presented below: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 14/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 15/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
The proportion of participants achieving fungal-free survival at the end of study therapy was similar 
among the caspofungin group (71.0%) and the amphotericin B deoxycholate group (75.0%) in the FAS 
population.  
Comparable results were also noted in the Per-Protocol population. 
Assessors comments 
Efficacy  results  are  comparable  between  caspofungin  and  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate,  for  both  the 
FAS  and  PP  populations.  No  formal  subgroup  analysis  was  performed.  Descriptive  statistics  were 
presented.  
Of  the  34  participants  from  whom  baseline  isolates  were  available  for  central  laboratory  testing,  1 
participant (3%) had both Candida albicans and Candida glabrata identified at baseline; 30 participants 
(88%) had an infection with Candida albicans only;  1 participant (3%) had an infection with Candida 
glabrata  only.  Additionally,  there  was  1  participant  (3%)  with  Candida  intermedia,  and  1  participant 
(3%) with Candida tropicalis. All isolates were obtained from blood or urine. There were 4 participants 
who had cerebrospinal fluid sampling performed at screening, all of which were negative. 
The  small  sample  size  limits  the  conclusions  that  can  be  drawn,  however  in  patients  with  C  albicans 
there was a higher  proportion of patients with fungal-free survival at 2 weeks posttherapy.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 16/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results at end of study are comparable between groups both in the FAS and PP populations. 
Clinical  response  was  comparable  between  both  groups  at  all  time  points  in  both  the  FAS  and  PP 
population. 
Safety results 
The safety and tolerability of caspofungin in infants and neonates < 3 months of age was monitored by 
clinical  assessment  of  AEs  and  by  repeated  measurements  of  hematology  and  blood  chemistry,  and 
vital  signs.  All  safety  analyses  were  based  on  the  ASaT  population,  which  included  49  randomized 
participants who received at least 1 dose of study intervention. 
Overall extent of exposure 
The mean duration of exposure was similar in the caspofungin group (16.8 days) and the amphotericin 
B  deoxycholate  group  (17.8  days).  The  majority  of  participants  in  both  intervention  groups  received 
study intervention for 15 to 21 days. 
Summary of adverse events 
As expected in this critically ill patient population,  the incidence  of AEs was high in both intervention 
groups.  Although  the  small  sample  size  limits  the  conclusions  that  can  be  drawn,  the  proportion  of 
participants  who  experienced  a  SAE  was  higher  in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group  compared 
with the caspofungin group. No SAEs were considered to be related to study intervention. Overall, few 
subjects discontinued due to an AE and few AEs were considered related to study intervention by the 
investigator. 
Common adverse events 
The  most  frequently  reported  individual  AE  terms  by  participants  in  the  caspofungin  group  included 
anemia  10  (30.3%),  pyrexia  6  (18.2%),  and  sepsis  3  (9.1%).  In  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate 
group,  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  included  anemia  8  (50.0%),  sepsis  4  (25.0%),  pyrexia  3 
(18.8%), and aspartate aminotransferase increased 3 (18.8%). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 17/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths 
There were 4 participants with reported AEs that resulted in death, including 2 (6.1%) in caspofungin 
group  and  2  (12.5%)  in  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group  while  receiving  study  intervention  and 
through the 2-week posttherapy follow-up visit. 
In the caspofungin group, the AEs resulting in death included septic shock (event onset study Day 1) 
and necrotizing enterocolitis neonatal (event onset study Day 28). In the amphotericin B deoxycholate 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 18/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group, suture rupture (event onset study Day 16) and cardiac arrest/ procedural pneumothorax (event 
onset study Day 4) were the AEs that resulted in death. 
An  additional  participant  in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group  experienced  an  AE  resulting  in 
death (pulmonary hemorrhage, event onset Day 56) during the 8-week posttherapy follow-up period. 
These  events  were  not  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  intervention,  and  were 
mainly related to the participant’s underlying condition. 
Serious adverse events 
Thirteen participants reported a SAE (including those participants who reported AEs resulting in death) 
while  receiving  study  intervention  and  through  the  2-week  posttherapy  follow-up  visit.  Although  the 
small sample size limits the conclusions that can be drawn, a higher proportion of SAEs was observed 
in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group  compared  with  the  caspofungin  group  [Table  2.5:  4]  [Ref. 
5.3.5.1: P064MK0991: 12.2.1.2]. 
All SAEs were considered unrelated to trial intervention by the investigator and there was no clustering 
of SAEs during conduct of the study either chronologically or by site. All SAEs were attributable to, and 
consistent with, the critically ill population in this study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 19/24 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug-related Adverse Events 
Overall,  4  participants  (2  [6.1%]  in  the  caspofungin  group  and  2  [12.5%]  in  the  amphotericin  B 
deoxycholate  group)  reported  study  intervention-related  AEs  while  receiving  study  intervention  and 
through the 2-week posttherapy follow-up visit [Table 2.5: 5] [Ref. 5.3.5.1: P064MK0991: 12.1.3.1]. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 20/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the caspofungin group, events considered related  to study intervention  included 1 participant who 
reported  a  mild,  NSAE  of  infusion  site  oedema  and  1  participant  who  reported  a  moderate,  NSAE  of 
jaundice  cholestatic.  The  latter  event  represented  a  worsening  of  a  pre-existing  condition  (medical 
history  of  jaundice  cholestatic  and  cholelithiasis).  In  both  cases,  no  action  was  taken  with  regard  to 
study intervention, and the events resolved.  
In the amphotericin B deoxycholate group, 1 participant experienced a study intervention related AE of 
anaemia  on  Day  3,  which  represented  a  worsening  of  a  pre-existing  condition.  No  action  was  taken 
with  regard  to  study  intervention  in  response  to  this  AE,  which  resolved.  Another  participant  in  the 
amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  group  experienced  a  study  intervention  related  AEs  of  blood  lactate 
dehydrogenase  increased  (onset  Day  5)  and  metabolic  alkalosis  (onset  Day  8).  This  participant  had 
ongoing congestive cardiac failure and Escherichia coli infection, and the treating physician decided to 
stop study intervention after Day 8. 
Adverse Events leading to intervention discontinuation 
Discontinuation of study intervention occurred in 4 (12.1%) participants in the caspofungin group and 
1 (6.3%) participant in the amphotericin B deoxycholate group. These AEs were not considered by the 
investigator to be related to study intervention. Specifically, in the caspofungin group, the AEs that led 
to  discontinuation  included  cholestasis,  endocarditis,  accidental  overdose,  and  superior  vena  cava 
syndrome. The event of accidental overdose was not associated with other AEs. In the amphotericin B 
deoxycholate  group,  1  participant  discontinued  study  intervention  due  to  cardiac  arrest/procedural 
pneumothorax. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 21/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overdose 
During the course of the trial, 2 participants in the caspofungin group reported an accidental overdose. 
In  both  cases,  no  AEs  associated  with  the  overdose  were  reported.  One  participant  experienced  an 
overdose  during  a  single  infusion.  The  remaining  participant  received  multiple  (5)  infusions  with  an 
incorrect dosage. 
Clinical laboratory evaluations 
No  clinically  meaningful  findings  were  noted  in  mean  change  from  baseline  in  chemistry  and 
hematology laboratory tests. Creatinine laboratory shifts were similar between the caspofungin group 
and the amphotericin B deoxycholate group. 
Vital sign assessment 
The vital sign assessments were comparable across the caspofungin and amphotericin B deoxycholate 
intervention groups and no clinically meaningful findings were noted. 
Safety summary: 
As expected in this critically ill patient population,  the incidence  of AEs was high in both  intervention 
groups. All SAEs, including those with a fatal outcome, were consistent with this seriously ill population 
and none were considered related to study intervention by the investigator. Few subjects discontinued 
due  to  an  AE  and  few  AEs  were  considered  related  to  study  intervention  by  the  investigator.  Two 
participants reported an overdose during the course of the trial, neither of which resulted in the report 
of an associated AE. No clinically meaningful laboratory or vital sign findings were noted. 
Assessors comments 
Adverse events incidence was high in both groups, which was expected in this critically ill population. 
Most common reported AEs in the  caspofungin group  were anemia (30%), pyrexia (18%) and sepsis 
(9%). 
2 AEs were considered related to caspofungin, namely an infusion site oedema which was considered 
mild  in  intensity,  resolved  after  2  days  and  did  not  result  in  treatment  discontinuation,  and  jaundice 
(cholestatic)  which  was  moderate  in  intensity,  resolved  spontaneously  and  did  not  lead  to 
discontinuation. The patient who experienced the jaundice later discontinued study intervention due to 
an SAE of superior vena cava syndrome. 
4  patients  reported  AEs  that  resulted  in  death,  2  in  the  caspofungin  group  (septic  shock  and 
necrotizing enterocolitis neonatal) and 2 in the amphotericin B deoxycholate group (suture rupture and 
cardiac  arrest/procedural  pneumothorax).  All  deaths  were  considered  unrelated  to  study  intervention 
and mainly related to patients underlying condition. 
18.2% of the caspofungin group experienced severe adverse events, versus 43.8% in the amphotericin 
B deoxycholate group. All SAEs were considered unrelated to trial intervention. 
5  patients  reported  AEs  resulting  in  discontinuation  of  study  intervention,  all  considered  unrelated  to 
study interventions.  
2 patients reported an accidental overdose with caspofungin, which did not lead to adverse events in 
both cases. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 22/24 
 
 
 
 
 
A higher proportion of participants in the amphotericin B deoxycholate group met  the PDLC criteria of 
ALT  >  2.5  ×  baseline  and  AST  >  2.5  ×  baseline  compared  to  the  caspofungin  group.  Creatinine 
laboratory shifts were similar between the treatment groups. 
Overall, incidence rate of AEs was high in both groups, as expected. No new adverse events were seen 
then  already  known  and  described  in  the  SmPC.  Appropriate  warnings  for  liver  function  disturbances 
are already described in the SmPC 
Impact on benefit/risk balance 
In  this  study  of  caspofungin  compared  to  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  in  neonates  and  infants  <  3 
months of age, the proportion of participants with fungal-free survival at 2 weeks posttherapy and at 
the end of therapy in the caspofungin treatment group was similar to that seen in the amphotericin B 
deoxycholate  treatment  group.  Additionally,  caspofungin  2  mg/kg  was  generally  well-tolerated  in 
neonates and infants < 3 months of age with invasive candidiasis and no new or unique safety issues 
were identified.  
Previous  evidence  supporting  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  caspofungin  in  neonatal  invasive  candidiasis 
has  been  published  in  the  medical  literature,  with  the  most  compelling  evidence  coming  from  a 
prospective  study  from  Saudi  Arabia.  Also,  data  from  several  published  case  reports  and  case  series 
have also contributed to a growing acceptance  of  caspofungin  use  in preterm  neonates with  invasive 
candidiasis. In multiple reports, caspofungin therapy was started as salvage therapy in VLBW preterm 
neonates  only  after  initial  therapy  with  conventional  antifungals  (amphotericin  B  deoxycholate, 
fluconazole, with or without flucytosine) had failed, due either to pathogen resistance or to intolerance 
of  the  initial  therapy.  Other  anecdotes  reported  clearance  of  shunt  associated  Candida  albicans 
meningitis with, and intractable candidemia in 23- and 24-week preterm neonates. In each published 
report  of  caspofungin  use  in  neonatal  invasive  candidiasis,  there  have  been  no  unexpected  or  drug-
related SAEs. 
Due to the small sample size (n=49) enrolled and treated in the P064 study, the data are insufficient 
to provide a conclusion regarding the comparative efficacy and safety of caspofungin and amphotericin 
B deoxycholate in neonates and infants <3  months of age with invasive candidiasis. Further, no  new 
PK information meaningfully supplementing that already summarized in product labeling was obtained. 
With  the  limited  sample  size,  and  inconclusive  findings,  no  changes  to  the  caspofungin  prescribing 
information  are  proposed  and  no  changes  to  the  current  treatment  guidelines  for  neonatal  invasive 
candidiasis are expected. 
The results of this study do not alter the benefit/risk profile of caspofungin. At this time, no additional 
studies are planned for caspofungin in the pediatric patient population. 
Assessors comments 
The MAH concludes that due to the small sample size no formal conclusion regarding the comparative 
efficacy  and  safety  of  caspofungin  and  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  in  neonates  and  infants  <3m  of 
age  could  be  made.  The  study  terminated  enrolment  before  the  target  number  of  participants  was 
randomized.  Multiple  reasons  were  mentioned  by  the  MAH:  the  critical  ill  study  population,  other 
standard  of  care  (liposomal  amphotericin  instead  of  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate),  already  available 
caspofungin  data  in  this  population  (which  demonstrates  its  value)  and,  perhaps  the  most  important 
reason,  the  changing  epidemiology  of  invasive  candidiasis  in  neonatology  due  to  use  of  fluconazole 
prophylaxis,  earlier  empiric  antifungal  treatment  and  decreased  use  of  broad-spectrum  antibiotics 
especially in the low birth-weight population. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Because of these challenges, resulting in a small sample size, this study was not powered to evaluate 
statistically  significant  differences  in  safety  and  efficacy  parameters  between  caspofungin  and 
amphotericin B deoxycholate intervention groups. No changes in prescribing information is warranted.  
However, according to the SmPC guideline, available data outside of the authorised pediatric indication 
should be presented and cross-referenced to section 4.2. Therefore the MAH is asked to update section 
5.1 with efficacy data of the P064 study. The inclusion in section 5.1 could read as follows: 
In  a  double-blind,  randomized  (2:1)  comparator-controlled  study  safety,  tolerability  and  efficacy  of 
caspofungin  (2mg/kg/d  intravenously,  infused  over  2  hours)  vs  amphothericin  B  deoxycholate 
(1mg/kg/d) was evaluated in neonates and infants less than 3 months of age with (culture-confirmed) 
invasive candidiasis. Due to poor enrolment, the study was terminated early and only 51 patients were 
randomized.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  fungal-free  survival  at  2  weeks  posttherapy  in  the 
caspofungin  treatment  group  (71.0%)  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate 
treatment group (68.8%). Based on this study, no posology recommendations for neonates and infants 
can be made. 
The MAH should therefor submit a variation or provide a justification for not doing so. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The MAH concluded that  this study was not powered to evaluate statistically significant differences in 
safety  and  efficacy  parameters  between  caspofungin  and  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate  intervention 
groups. No changes in prescribing information is warranted.  
However, according to the SmPC guideline, available data outside of the authorised pediatric indication 
should be presented and cross-referenced to section 4.2. Therefore the MAH is asked to update section 
5.1 with efficacy data of the P064 study. The inclusion in section 5.1 could read as follows: 
In  a  double-blind,  randomized  (2:1)  comparator-controlled  study  safety,  tolerability  and  efficacy  of 
caspofungin  (2mg/kg/d  intravenously,  infused  over  2  hours)  vs  amphothericin  B  deoxycholate 
(1mg/kg/d) was evaluated in neonates and infants less than 3 months of age with (culture-confirmed) 
invasive candidiasis. Due to poor enrolment, the study was terminated early and only 51 patients were 
randomized.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  fungal-free  survival  at  2  weeks  posttherapy  in  the 
caspofungin  treatment  group  (71.0%)  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  the  amphotericin  B  deoxycholate 
treatment group (68.8%). Based on this study, no posology recommendations for neonates and infants 
can be made. 
  Fulfilled: 
In view of the available data regarding the safety and efficacy of caspofungin in neonates and infants 
less than 3 months of age the MAH should either submit a variation in accordance with Articles 16 and 
17 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or provide a justification for not doing so. This should be provided 
without any delay and no later than 60 days after the receipt of these conclusions. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/869774/2018  
Page 24/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
