MK-0991
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 4.2
PAGE 38
CASPOFUNGIN ACETATE
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
Summary of risk management plan for CANCIDAS 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for CANCIDAS. The RMP details 
important risks of CANCIDAS, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about CANCIDAS 's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
CANCIDAS 's summary of product characteristics SmPC and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how CANCIDAS should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for CANCIDAS should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
CANCIDAS's RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used for
CANCIDAS is authorised for the treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult or paediatric
patients; treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adult or paediatric patients who are refractory 
to or intolerant of amphotericin B, lipid formulations of amphotericin B and/or itraconazole. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 
7 days of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy, and empirical therapy for 
presumed fungal infections (such as Candida or Aspergillus) in febrile, neutropaenic adult or 
paediatric patients. It contains caspofungin acetate as the active substance and it is 
administered by slow intravenous infusion.
Further information about the evaluation of CANCIDAS’s benefits can be found in 
CANCIDAS’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to product’s EPAR summary landing page on 
the EMA webpage.https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cancidas-
previously-caspofungin-msd
MK-0991
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 4.2
PAGE 39
CASPOFUNGIN ACETATE
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of CANCIDAS, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about CANCIDAS 's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of CANCIDAS are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of CANCIDAS. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
MK-0991
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 4.2
PAGE 40
CASPOFUNGIN ACETATE
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Not applicable
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of CANCIDAS. 
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for CANCIDAS. 
