20 September 2012 
EMA/711212/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Capecitabine Medac 
International non-proprietary name: capecitabine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002568 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product................................................................................ 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 11 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 11 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development............................................ 11 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 11 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 12 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 12 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 12 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 12 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 13 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 16 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience.............................................................................. 16 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 18 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 18 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 18 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 19 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/20
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
5-FU 
5-fluorouracil 
AEs 
Alu 
adverse events 
aluminium 
ANOVA  
analysis of variation 
ASMF 
AUC 0-t 
active substance master file 
area under the curve from time 0 to time t 
AUC 0-   
area under the curve from time 0 to infinity 
BMI 
BSE 
C max 
EEA 
EP 
body mass index 
bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
maximum concentration 
European Economic Area 
European Pharmacopoeia 
HPLC 
high pressure liquid chromatography 
GC 
ICH 
IR 
gas chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
infra-red 
LC/MS/MS 
liquid chromatography followed by two rounds of mass spectrometry 
LLOQ 
lower level of quantification 
PK 
pharmacokinetics 
PVC/PVdC 
polyvinyl chloride/polyvinyidene chloride 
RH 
SAEs 
t½ 
relative humidity 
serious adverse events 
half life 
ThyPase 
thymidine phosphorylase 
tmax 
TSE 
USP 
time to maximum (plasma) concentration 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
US Pharmacopeial Convention 
WHO 
World Health Organisation 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant medac Gesellschaft für klinische Spezialpräparate mbH submitted on 25 October 2011 an 
application for Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Capecitabine 
Medac, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– 
‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMA/CHMP on 19 May 2011. 
The application concerns a generic and hybrid medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has 
been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Capecitabine is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III 
(Dukes’ stage C) colon cancer (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine in combination with docetaxel (see section 5.1) is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Previous therapy should have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine is also indicated as 
monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after 
failure of taxanes and an anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further 
anthracycline therapy is not indicated. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Capecitabine Medac 150 mg and 500 mg film coated tablets 
The legal basis for this application refers to: Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder:  Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001     
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001 - 002 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/20
 
 
 
 
 
■ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
■ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
• 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001 - 002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 500 mg film coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/163/002 
Bioavailability study number(s): 438-08 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Xeloda instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise  
Capecitabine Medac 300 mg film coated tablets 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC) 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
■ 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder:  Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001 - 002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/20
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
■ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001 - 002 
 Difference(s) compared to this reference medicinal product: 
changes in the active substance(s) 
change in therapeutic indications 
change in pharmaceutical form 
change in strength (quantitative change to the active substance(s)) 
change in route of administration 
bioequivalence  cannot  be  demonstrated  through  bioavailability  
studies 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 500mg film coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited, UK 
Date of authorisation: 02 February 2001  
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/163/002 
Bioavailability study number(s): 438-08 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Xeloda instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise  
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was K. Dunder 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 25 October 2011.  
The procedure started on 16 November 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
6 February 2012. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
During the meeting on 12 – 15 March 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 15 March 2012. 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 July 
2012. 
• 
The Rapporteur's Assessment Report on the responses was circulated to all CHMP members on 
31 August 2012. 
• 
During the meeting on 17 – 20 September 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Capecitabine Medac on 20 September 2012.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Capecitabine Medac, 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets, is a generic application made according 
to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
Capecitabine Medac, 300 mg film-coated tablets, is a hybrid application made according to Article 
10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. This additional strength is not approved for the reference medicinal 
product, Xeloda. 
The active substance in Capecitabine Medac is capecitabine, a non-cytotoxic fluoropyrimidine 
carbamate, which functions as an orally administered precursor of the cytotoxic moiety 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU). Capecitabine is activated via several enzymatic steps. The enzyme involved in the final 
conversion of capecitabine to 5-FU, thymidine phosphorylase (ThyPase), is found in tumour tissues, 
but also in normal tissues albeit usually at lower levels. In human cancer xenograft models 
capecitabine demonstrated a synergistic effect in combination with docetaxel, which may be related to 
the upregulation of thymidine phosphorylase by docetaxel. 
The efficacy and safety of capecitabine has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies. A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference medicinal product Xeloda. 
The indication proposed for Capecitabine Medac is the same as the authorised indication for the 
reference medicinal product and includes treatment of colon, colorectal, gastric and breast cancer. 
Given as single agent, the recommended starting dose for capecitabine in the adjuvant treatment of 
colon cancer, in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer or of locally advanced or metastatic 
breast cancer is 1250 mg/m2 administered twice daily (morning and evening; equivalent to 
2500 mg/m2 total daily dose) for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period. Adjuvant treatment in 
patients with stage III colon cancer is recommended for a total of 6 months.   
In combination treatment in colon, colorectal and gastric cancer, the recommended starting dose of 
capecitabine should be reduced to 800 – 1000 mg/m2 when administered twice daily for 14 days 
followed by a 7-day rest period or to 625 mg /m2 twice daily when administered continuously. The 
inclusion of biological agents in a combination regimen has no effect on the starting dose of 
capecitabine. Premedication to maintain adequate hydration and anti-emesis according to the cisplatin 
summary of product characteristics should be started prior to cisplatin administration for patients 
receiving the capecitabine plus cisplatin combination. Premedication with antiemetics according to the 
oxaliplatin summary of product characteristics is recommended for patients receiving the capecitabine 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/20
 
 
 
 
plus oxaliplatin combination. Adjuvant treatment in patients with stage III colon cancer is 
recommended for duration of 6 months.   
Finally, in combination with docetaxel, the recommended starting dose of capecitabine in the treatment 
of metastatic breast cancer is 1250 mg/m2 twice daily for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period, 
combined with docetaxel at 75 mg/m2 as a 1 hour intravenous infusion every 3 weeks. Pre-medication 
with an oral corticosteroid such as dexamethasone according to the docetaxel summary of product 
characteristics should be started prior to docetaxel administration for patients receiving the 
capecitabine plus docetaxel combination. 
Capecitabine tablets should be swallowed with water within 30 minutes after a meal. Treatment should 
be discontinued if progressive disease or intolerable toxicity is observed. For further posology 
recommendations please refer to section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
In addition to the 60 and 120 tablet pack presentations authorised for Xeloda, the applicant has 
applied for 28, 30, 56, 84 and 112 tablet pack sizes for all strengths (150 mg, 300 mg and 500 mg). 
The proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use of the reference 
medicinal product. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 150 mg, 300 mg, and 500 mg of 
capecitabine as active substance. Other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: Anhydrous lactose, cellulose microcrystalline (E460), croscarmellose sodium, 
hypromellose, magnesium stearate.  
Tablet coating: Hypromellose, talc, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide yellow 
(E172) 
The tablets are packed in Aluminium- Aluminium and PVC/PVdC-Aluminium blisters packs. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
This medicinal product contains as active substance capecitabine. The chemical names of capecitabine 
are:  Carbamic acid, [1-(5-deoxy-β-D-ribofuranosyl)-5- fluoro-1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-4-pyrimidinyl]-, 
pentyl ester, 5’-Deoxy-5-fluoro-N [(pentyloxy)carbonyl]cytidine, pentyl 1-(5-deoxy-β-D-ribofuranosyl)-
5-fluoro-1,2- dihydro-2-oxo-4-pyrimidine carbamate or N(4)-Pentyloxycarbonyl-5'-deoxy-5-
fluorocytidine. The molecular formula is C15H 22FN3O6. 
Capecitabine appears as a white to off white crystalline powder and is freely soluble in methanol, 
soluble in acetonitrile and in alcohol, sparingly soluble in water. Capecitabine is not hygroscopic. 
Literature searches have not result in any information that points to the existence of polymorphism of 
the active substance. 
Capecitabine exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of three chiral centers. Stereo chemical 
purity is controlled routinely and also in stability studies by specific optical rotation. Stability data 
indicates that the stereochemistry is not changed during manufacture or storage of the active 
substance. 
Manufacturing procedure employed consistently affords a single crystalline form of capecitabine as 
confirmed by X-ray crystallographic pattern of 3 batches of capecitabine.  
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/20
 
 
 
Manufacture 
The active substance is supplied by two active substance manufacturers. Detailed information about 
the manufacturing process, control of starting materials, reagents and solvents, control of critical steps 
and intermediates and process development and process validation of the active substance has been 
supplied in the form of an active substance master file (ASMF). The manufacturing process consists of 
three steps. All manufacturing steps are adequately described. Adequate in process controls are in 
place and appropriate specifications have been adopted for the starting materials, solvents and 
reagents. All relevant impurities, degradation products and residual solvents have been appropriately 
characterised. 
Specification 
The active substance is tested as per in-house specifications. The specifications of the active substance 
controlled by the manufacture of the finished include tests as: description, solubility, identification (IR, 
HPLC), water content (Ph Eur), specific optical rotation (Ph Eur), sulphated ash (Ph Eur), heavy metals 
(Ph Eur), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC),and microbial limit test (Ph 
Eur).  
The specifications and tests proposed are compliant with the relevant ICH guidelines and general 
requirements of Ph.Eur. The specifications are adequate to control the quality of the active substance. 
The impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety.  
Batch analysis data have been provided by the active substance suppliers on three commercial scale 
batches. All batches were in compliance with the predefined active substance specifications and 
confirm consistency and uniformity of the active substance manufacture. 
Stability 
Stability studies on the active substance manufactured by both manufacturers have been performed at 
long term (25±2°C/60±5% RH) and accelerated (40±2°C/75±5% RH) conditions on three production 
batches, respectively packed in the packing intended for marketing. Up to 12 and 24 months of long 
term stability data, respectively, and up to 6 months of accelerated stability data has been provided, 
confirming the stability of the active substance. The specifications tested were description, identity (IR 
ad HPLC), water content, specific rotation, assay (HPLC), related substances and microbiological purity. 
The stability data provided support the proposed retest period at the proposed packaging and storage 
conditions.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the product development was to formulate a medicinal product essentially similar, robust, 
stable and bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product. 
During development a number of characteristics of the active substance were evaluated to confirm the 
suitability of the active substance. The effect of the particle size of capecitabine on the quality of the 
finished product was investigated and dissolution profiles of different particle sizes were studied. A 
compatibility study was carry out with the active substance and different commonly used excipients at 
accelerate thermal stress conditions. The study showed that the active substance is compatible with 
the excipients used in the finished product. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/20
 
 
 
Wet granulation was chosen as manufacturing process based on formulation development trials. The 
composition of the tablets was optimised during development. The three strengths are dose-
proportional.The tablets used in the bioequivalence study are identical to those intended for marketing.  
Dissolution profiles of the 500 mg test- and reference drug products and the other test strengths 150 
mg and 300 mg have been provided using purified water, 0.001N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer and pH 
6.8 phosphate buffer. The results show that the dissolution profiles are similar and more than 85% is 
dissolved within 30 minutes. 
The excipients used are anhydrous lactose, cellulose microcrystalline, croscarmellose sodium, 
hypromellose, magnesium stearate, talc, titanium dioxide, iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow and 
titanium dioxide. All the excipients are controlled in accordance with Ph Eur monographs except for the 
colouring agents red and yellow iron oxide which are controlled in accordance with monographs in 
USN. 
The choice of the primary packaging material was based on experience of similar kind of product 
development and marketing strategy. The tablets are packed in Alu-Alu blister and  PVC/PVdC-Alu 
pack. Based on the available stability results no interaction between the finished product and primary 
containers is expected. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the materials, except lactose anhydrous, used in this formulation is of human or animal origin. 
There is no risk of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) and bovine spongiform 
encephalopathy (BSE) associated with the active substance and excipients used in this formulation. 
It is confirmed by the manufacturer of the lactose that it does not have potential for TSE and is derived 
from milk, sourced from healthy animals in the same conditions as milk collected for human 
consumption and is prepared in accordance with the relevant requirements laid down in Note for 
Guidance EMEA/410/01, rev2. 
Manufacture of the product 
The capecitabine film coated tablets are manufactured by wet granulation and the manufacturing 
process consists of sieving, mixing, granulation, drying, sizing and lubrication prior to compression to 
tablets and film coating. The granulation and film coating operations may be done in single lot or in 
sub batches (or lots) based on the capacity of equipment used. The manufacturing process is described 
in the documentation and a flow diagram of the process is presented. 
The manufacturing process has been validated by a number of studies for the major steps of the 
manufacturing process in three batches of each strength in each manufacturer and is satisfactory. The 
in process controls are adequate for this product. 
The batch analysis data provided show that this tablet can be manufactured reproducibly according to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Product specification  
The finished product specifications include appropriate tests for description, average weight of tablet, 
identification (IR, HPLC), identification of titanium dioxide, identification of iron oxide and iron oxide 
yellow, disintegration time (Ph Eur), resistance to crushing (Ph. Eur.), water (Ph Eur), dissolution, 
related substances (HPLC), uniformity of dosage (Ph Eur)), assay (95.0% - 105.0%, HPLC), and 
microbiological enumeration test (Ph. Eur.).  
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/20
 
 
 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process 
is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Three production scale batches of the strengths 150 mg and 500 mg manufactured at one of the 
manufacturing site and three production scale batches of the strengths 150 mg, 300 mg and 500 mg 
manufactured at the second manufacturing site have been included in the stability program. The 
batches have been stored in accordance with ICH requirements at long term conditions (25°C ± 2°C / 
60% ± 5% RH), intermediate conditions (30°C ± 2°C / 65% ± 5% RH) and accelerated conditions 
(40°C ± 2°C / 75% ± 5% RH). The tablets have been stored in the packages intended for marketing. 
Results from two batches of each strength from one of the manufacturing sites stored for 24 months at 
long term conditions, 12 months at intermediate conditions and for 6 months at accelerated conditions 
have been presented.  
Additionally, results from three batches of the strengths 150 mg, 300 mg and 500 mg, from the 
second manufacturing site, stored at long term conditions for 9 months and at accelerated conditions 
for 6 month were provided. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile is being discussed below.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/20
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Capecitabine Medac is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
combined sales volumes for all capecitabine containing products and the exposure of the environment 
to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
For the composition of the products under consideration, capecitabine Medac 150/300/500 mg tablets, 
the following excipients were used: lactose (anhydrous), cellulose microcrystalline, croscarmellose 
sodium, hypromellose (E-5), magnesium stearate and purified water. For the film coating: 
Hypromellose (6cP, talc, titanium oxide, ferric oxide red, ferric oxide yellow and purified water is used. 
These excipients are used in the manufacturing of oral pharmaceutical products and are all EP listed.  
There are three drug-related impurities namely,  compound A (USP) 5’-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine; 
compound B (USP) 5’-deoxy-5-fluorouridine and compound C (USP) 2’3’-O-carbonyl-5’-deoxy-5-fluoro-
N4-(pentyloxycarbonyl) cytidine (USP) .The limits of these impurities are higher than recommended by 
the Note for Guidance on Impurities in New Drug Product /CPMP/ICH/2738/99) with a qualification 
threshold of 0.15% for drug products with a maximum daily dose of > 2g which is the case for 
capecitabine tablets (maximum daily dose for normal body surface area person is 4.3 g).  
Impurities A and B are metabolites of capecitabine and hence are considered qualified for that reason. 
For the compound C, due to the nature of the indication and treatment regimen (given in a limited 
number of days/cycles and known pharmacological/toxicological profile of the parent drug, the level of 
0.5% as set by the shelf-life could be considered qualified. This is in line with guidance in ICH S9, 
which is the relevant guideline to consider for a product used for the present indication.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In conclusion, the non-clinical overview presented by the applicant is largely based on published 
scientific literature which is acceptable since capecitabine is a well known active substance.  There are 
no objections to the approval of Capecitabine Medac from a non-clinical point of view. The SmPC of 
Capecitabine Medac is similar to that of the originator product Xeloda and it is therefore acceptable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing capecitabine. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted 1 bioequivalence study with cross-over design under 
fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of capecitabine based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment, the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in 
its current version is of particular relevance. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/20
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Exemption 
One bioequivalence study was submitted which employed the 500 mg strength. All conditions for 
biowaiver of additional strength according to the Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CHMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev. 1) were fulfilled. 
From a pharmacokinetic point of view, biowaiver for the lower strengths is generally accepted if the 
pharmacokinetics is either linear or non-linear with a more than dose-proportional increase in 
exposure. The submitted data indicate that the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine is dose proportional 
and does not change over time over a dosage range of 500 to 3500 mg/m2/day. This, in addition to 
the fact that the lower strengths are not administrated as a single dose, but in combination to attain 
the desired dose level, renders the biowaiver for the lower strengths acceptable. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted 1 bioequivalence study with the 500 mg tablet 
(study 438-08). 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 438-08 was a multicentre, randomised, open label, single-dose, two-period, two-treatment, 
crossover, bioequivalence study in 88 male and female cancer patients under fed conditions. 
The clinical part of the study was conducted between 01 September 2009 and 25 February 2010. at:  
Site ID  Study Center 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
Curie Manvata Cancer centre, Opp. Mahamarg Bus stand, Mumbai Naka, Nashik, 
Maharashtra-422004 
Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital & Research Centre, Erandwane, Pune-411004 
Maharashtra 
Kaushalya Medical Foundation Trust Hospital, Ganeshwadi, Bhind Nitin Company, 
Panchpakadi, Thane (w)-400601 
Ruby Hall Clinic 40 , Sassoon Road, Pune-411001 
Shatabdi Super speciality Hospital, Suyojit City Center, Mumbai Naka, Nashik, 
Maharashtra-422005 
Dr.Rai Memorial Medical Centre, No: 562 - Century Plaza, Anna Salai, (Opp DMS) 
Teynampet, Chennai - 600018 
Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, Lake Area, Melur Road, Madurai – 
625107 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/20
 
 
 
I 
J 
K 
M 
O 
P 
Christian Medical College, IDA Scudder Road, Vellore - 632 001 
Global Hospital, Lakadi ka pool, Hyderabad- 500004 
M S Patel Cancer Centre, Shree Krishna Hospital, Gokal Nagar, Karamsad 
Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Phulwari Sharif, Patna 
Jeevandeep Hospital, 302, 3rd floor, Ayush Doctor House, Station Road, Surat 
Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Cancer Research Institute, 16A, Park Lane, Kolkata-16 
The study lasted through one treatment cycle of capecitabine (2 weeks of daily treatment followed by 1 
week rest period); period-I was the first day of the first chemotherapy cycle of the study and Period-II 
was the first day of the next chemotherapy cycle of the study. Capecitabine was administered in doses 
of 2500 mg/m2 / day in two divided doses. The patients were administered either the reference drug or 
the test drug only as the first morning dose of each chemotherapy cycle as per randomisation schedule 
as a single dose of 1500 mg.  
Patients were on an overnight fast for at least 10 hours prior to serving of a standardised non high-fat 
breakfast (about 650 kcal with about 30% derived from fat) prior to dosing in each period. At 30 
minutes after serving of the breakfast, patients were administered a single oral dose of 1500 mg 
(3x500 mg) of either the test or reference product, with 240 ml of water. Blood samples were collected 
predose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.333, 2.667, 3, 3.333, 3.667, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 12 hours following 
dose administration. 
Test and reference products  
Capecitabine 500 mg tablets has been compared to Xeloda 500 mg tablets. 
Population studied   
A total of 88 adult (17 male and 71 female) metastatic breast cancer or metastatic colorectal cancer 
patients, aged 27-87 years, were enrolled. Out of these, 76 patients completed the PK-part of the 
study. As samples of three patients reached beyond stability period for analysis, their samples were 
not analysed. One additional patient received restricted medication during the study and although his 
samples were analysed, data obtained from the analysis were not considered for the efficacy analysis. 
Hence, samples from 72 patients were analysed and included in the pharmacokinetic analysis.   
The mean age for the 88 patients randomised was 51 ± 12 years, mean height was 153 ± 9 cm, mean 
weight was 55 ± 10 kg and the mean body mass index (BMI) was 23.4 ± 4.1 kg / m2. The racial 
make-up of the study was 100% Asian. 
Analytical methods   
Plasma concentrations of capecitabine and the active metabolite 5-FU were determined with an 
LC/MS/MS method.  
Pre-study validation 
Specificity was shown employing eight independent sources of human plasma. Sensitivity at the limit 
of quantification, 10.239 ng/ml for capecitabine and 5.021 ng/ml for 5-FU, was shown. Satisfactory 
between- and within-run accuracy and precision was shown for low, medium and high QC sample 
concentrations. Linearity was demonstrated within the calibration range 10.239-5006.536 ng/ml for 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/20
 
 
 
 
capecitabine and 5.021-758.504 ng/ml for 5-FU. Dilution integrity for a factor of 5 and 10 was 
demonstrated. Stability in plasma was demonstrated for 9 h at room temperature, for 91 hours at 2 to 
8C and over three freeze-thaw cycles. There was no interference of co-administration of aspirin, 
paracetamol, ranitidine, ibuprofen, diclofenac or cetirizine. There was no inter-conversion between 
capecitabine and 5-FU during sample processing. 
Within-study validation 
Satisfactory method performance during study sample analysis was demonstrated. Appropriate batch 
acceptance criteria were used. LLOQ was below 1/20 of average Cmax. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
Pharmacokinetic variables were calculated using conventional non-compartmental method.  The 
pharmacokinetic variables included Cmax, AUC 0-t, AUC 0-, tmax, t½ and extrapolated AUC.  
Statistical methods   
The statistical analysis was performed on log-transformed AUC0-t and C max using ANOVA. The protocol 
stated that bioequivalence was to be concluded if the 90% confidence intervals for the test/reference 
ratio of the population geometric means fell within 80.00-125.00% for capecitabine AUC0-t and C max. 
Originally a sample size of 110 patients was planned for based on literature data estimating the intra-
patient variability of Capecitabine as ~47%. As per protocol an interim analysis for validation of intra-
subject variability was performed after completion of 30 patients. The sample size was recalculated 
using the observed intra-subject variability of 39% and the number of patients was amended 
(Amendment I, Dec 08, 2009). Based on the interim analysis, 88 patients were required to get data of 
72 patients to establish bioequivalence considering the drop-out rate as 20% and hence it was decided 
to complete the enrolment of 88 patients.  
Results 
Table 1.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for capecitabine (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
arithmetic mean 
6005 
5956 
4179 
2.0 
SD 
2297 
2147 
2418 
0.5-5.0 
Reference  
arithmetic mean 
6009 
6047 
4060 
2.0 
SD 
2657 
2672 
2349 
0.5-5.0 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours (ng*h/ml) 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (ng*h/ml) 
maximum plasma concentration (ng/ml)  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) (h) 
AUC (0-t)
AUC (0-∞)  
C max  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
AUC 0-∞    
C max  
T max  
The extrapolated AUC was less than 20% in all subjects.  
No pre-dose concentrations were detected. Four subjects receiving test and four reference reached tmax 
at the first sampling point. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Statistical analysis for capecitabine (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
AUC (0-t)
C max  
100.9 
102.1 
95.68-106.46 
90.55-115.12 
CV%* 
19.3% 
45.0% 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
Table 3.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for 5-FU (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
arithmetic mean 
416.7 
240.8 
2.333 
SD 
207.9 
177.6 
Reference  
arithmetic mean 
391.3 
225.2 
2.333 
SD 
177.8 
161.1 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours (ng*h/ml) 
maximum plasma concentration (ng/ml)  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) (h) 
AUC (0-t)
C max  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
C max  
T max  
The extrapolated AUC was >20% for one patient in reference and one patient in test.  
No pre-dose concentrations were detected. One subject reached tmax at the first sampling point after 
receiving the reference product. 
Safety data 
There were a total of 222 adverse events (AEs) reported in the study. 83 AEs were pretreatment AEs 
and 139 AEs were treatment emergent AEs. Out of the treatment emergent AEs, 39 were related to 
the study drug. The most frequently treatment emergent AEs were nausea (8 events), vomiting (8 
events), constipation (7 events) and anorexia (7 events). 
Among the total 222 AEs reported during the study, there were 7 deaths and 7 other serious adverse 
events (SAEs). Two deaths and two SAEs were judged as related to the study drug. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Capecitabine Medac is considered bioequivalent with 
Xeloda. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In this application no new efficacy or safety data have been submitted and none are required. The 
applicant has provided an acceptable review of clinical trial published in literature, describing the 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
efficacy and safety profile of capecitabine. No new dose recommendations compared with the reference 
product have been made for this generic application. 
Study 438-08, the pivotal bioequivalence study, was a multicentre, randomised, open label, single-
dose, two-period, two-treatment, crossover, bioequivalence study in 88 male and female cancer 
patients under fed conditions. No issues regarding GCP have been identified with this study. The 
clinical part of the study was conducted at regular cancer clinics. The bioanalytical facility has been 
inspected by the WHO, without any critical findings. 
A single-dose bioequivalence study is adequate to demonstrate bioequivalence of an orally 
administered immediate-release formulation. Moreover, as the SmPC of the reference product 
recommends administration within 30 minutes after a meal, a study in the fed state is appropriate. If 
no specific recommendation regarding the composition of the meal is given in the SmPC, the guideline 
on bioequivalence states that a high-fat meal should be administered in the bioequivalence study. 
However, as the reason for the dosage recommendations in the Xeloda SmPC is to be in line with how 
the product was administered during the clinical studies, which were most probably not high fat meals, 
it is considered acceptable to use a non-high fat meal in the bioequivalence study. 
Given the fast absorption and short half-life, it could have been considered to include a sampling point 
earlier than 0.5 h. The relatively sparse sampling is however not considered to be an advantage in the 
bioequivalence evaluation. 
Reasons for withdrawal of patients from the study were according to the protocol and considered 
acceptable. 
For capecitabine 11 samples were reanalysed due to anomalous concentrations. The samples were 
reanalysed in duplicates and the mean of the repeated value was reported. Reanalysis due to 
pharmacokinetic reasons are normally not accepted. In this case, the reported values were however in 
general rather close to the original values and this is not believed to have influenced the overall 
results. 
Data on long-term stability of capecitabine in plasma, covering the actual storage time of study 
samples (188 days), were provided and stability for 190 days was demonstrated. 
As the interim analysis was performed to investigate intra-subject variability and not as an interim 
analysis of bioequivalence, there is no need to adjust the confidence intervals to preserve the overall 
type I error. 
For capecitabine AUC0-t and Cmax, the 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the test and reference 
products fell within the conventional acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%. For a few subjects tmax was 
the first sampling point. The number was equal after administration of the test and the reference 
product and is not considered to be relevant in the overall evaluation of bioequivalence. 
Capecitabine is an orally administered chemotherapeutic agent. It is mainly self-administered by 
patients in doses 800-1250 mg/m2 twice daily for two weeks followed by one week rest period i 3 
weeks cycles. The duration of the treatment can be several months. 
The reference product Xeloda has two strengths 150 mg and 500 mg. These tablets differs in size - 
150 mg 11,4×5,3 mm, 500 mg 15,9×8,4 mm and are debossed by 150 and 500 on one side. 
The new strength that is introduced in this hybrid application has a size in between the previously 
known strengths but otherwise a similar appearance as the originator tablets. As the introduction of a 
new strength comes with the change to a generic product this could potentially mislead patient to refer 
a difference in size to the generic product and not to the strength. As this is a chemotherapeutic agent 
both over- and under-dosing could lead to detrimental consequences. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/20
 
 
 
To minimise the risk for medication errors with regards to the new strength the applicant has changed 
the colour of the 300 mg strength to off-white which is considered an adequate measure to minimise 
the potential risk of medication errors.  
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval from a clinical point of view. Bioequivalence between the test and 
reference product has been adequately demonstrated. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application is 
based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk 
minimisation activities have been identified. The potential risk for medication errors due to the new 
strength has been minimised with the change of the tablets colour of the 300 mg strength. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 
31 October 2012.  
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a combined generic and hybrid version of capecitabine film coated tablets. 
The reference product Xeloda is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of 
stage III (Dukes’ stage C) colon cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen. 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/20
 
 
 
 
Capecitabine in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Medac is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a multicentre, randomised, open label, single-
dose, two-period, two-treatment, crossover design in cancer patients under fed conditions. The study 
design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with 
the respective European requirements. A study in the fed state was considered appropriate, as the 
SmPC of the reference product recommends administration within 30 minutes after a meal. Choice of 
dose, sampling points, overall sampling time and wash-out period were adequate. The analytical 
method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Capecitabine Medac met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Xeloda. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters 
AUC 0-t, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80 to 
125%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Capecitabine Medac in the following indication: 
Capecitabine is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III (Dukes’ 
stage C) colon cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen. 
Capecitabine in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Medac is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated  
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/20
 
 
 
 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Capecitabine Medac 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/20
 
 
 
 
