London, 16 February 2012 
EMA/275974/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Capecitabine Teva 
International non-proprietary name: capecitabine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002362 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product................................................................................ 9 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 11 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 11 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development............................................ 11 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 11 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 12 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 12 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 13 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 13 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 18 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience.............................................................................. 18 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 18 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 19 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 20 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 21 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 2/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
2-Methyl-THF/ MeTHF  2-methyltetrahydrofuran  
5-FU 
AEs 
5-fluorouracil 
adverse events 
ANOVA  
analysis of variation 
ASMF 
AUC 0-t 
AUC 0-   
BSE 
C max 
active substance master file 
area under the curve from time 0 to time t 
area under the curve from time 0 to infinity 
bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
maximum concentration 
EP or Ph. Eur.   
European Pharmacopoeia 
HPLC 
GC 
ICH 
IR 
high pressure liquid chromatography 
gas chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
infra-red 
LC/MS/MS 
liquid chromatography followed by two rounds of mass spectrometry 
LLOQ 
PK 
lower level of quantification 
pharmacokinetics 
PVC/PE/PVDC 
polyvinyl chloride/polyethylene/polyvinyidene chloride 
RH 
SAEs 
t½ 
relative humidity 
serious adverse events 
half life 
ThyPase 
thymidine phosphorylase 
tmax 
TSE 
USP 
time to maximum (plasma) concentration 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
US Pharmacopeial Convention 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 3/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 4 March 2011 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Capecitabine Teva, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 29 June 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Capecitabine Teva is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III 
(Dukes’ stage C) colon cancer (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine Teva is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine Teva is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination 
with a platinum based regimen (see section 5.1). 
Capecitabine Teva in combination with docetaxel (see section 5.1) is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Previous therapy should have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Teva is also indicated as 
monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after 
failure of taxanes and an anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further 
anthracycline therapy is not indicated. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and 
bioequivalence studies with the reference medicinal product Xeloda instead of non-clinical and clinical 
data.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited      
Date of authorisation: 02/02/2001 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 4/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001-002 
■  
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made 
or European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited      
Date of authorisation:  02/02/2001        
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/163/001-002      
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Xeloda 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets    
Marketing authorisation holder: Roche Registration Limited         
Date of authorisation: 02/02/2001          
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/00/163/001-002            
Bioavailability study numbers: 150 mg  
EudraCT No: 2009-018165-13 
Study No: mp15.09 
500 mg 
EudraCT No: 2010-018537-22 
Study No: mp26.09 
Scientific advice  
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 29 May 2009 and on 19 November 2009. 
The Scientific Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 5/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
      
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Tomas Salmonson. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 March 2011.  
The procedure started on 23 March 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
10 June 2011. 
During the meeting on 18-21 July 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
21 July 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 
19 August 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 4 October 2011. 
During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. The final List of Outstanding Issues was 
sent to the applicant on 20 October 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 11 November 
2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 9 December 2011. 
During the CHMP meeting on 13-16 December 2011, the CHMP agreed on a second list of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. The final List of Outstanding 
Issues was sent to the applicant on 16 December 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP second List of Outstanding Issues on 
13 January 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 25 January 2012. 
During the meeting on 13-16 February 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Capecitabine Teva on 16 February 2012.  
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 6/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Capecitabine Teva, 150 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets is a generic application made according to 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
The active substance in Capecitabine Teva is capecitabine, a non-cytotoxic fluoropyrimidine carbamate, 
which functions as an orally administered precursor of the cytotoxic moiety 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). 
Capecitabine is activated via several enzymatic steps. The enzyme involved in the final conversion to 
5-FU, thymidine phosphorylase (ThyPase), is found in tumour tissues, but also in normal tissues, albeit 
usually at lower levels. In human cancer xenograft models capecitabine demonstrated a synergistic 
effect in combination with docetaxel, which may be related to the upregulation of thymidine 
phosphorylase by docetaxel. 
The efficacy and safety of capecitabine has been demonstrated in several well-controlled studies. A 
summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of the reference medicinal product Xeloda. 
The indication proposed for Capecitabine Teva is the same as the authorised indication for the 
reference medicinal product and includes treatment of colon, colorectal, gastric and breast cancer. 
Given as single agent, the recommended starting dose for capecitabine in the adjuvant treatment of 
colon cancer, in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer or of locally advanced or metastatic 
breast cancer is 1250 mg/m2 administered twice daily (morning and evening; equivalent to 
2500 mg/m2 total daily dose) for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period. Adjuvant treatment in 
patients with stage III colon cancer is recommended for a total of 6 months.   
In combination treatment in colon, colorectal and gastric cancer, the recommended starting dose of 
capecitabine should be reduced to 800 – 1000 mg/m2 when administered twice daily for 14 days 
followed by a 7-day rest period, or to 625 mg/m2 twice daily when administered continuously. The 
inclusion of biological agents in a combination regimen has no effect on the starting dose of 
capecitabine. Premedication to maintain adequate hydration and anti-emesis according to the cisplatin 
summary of product characteristics should be started prior to cisplatin administration for patients 
receiving the capecitabine plus cisplatin combination. Premedication with antiemetics according to the 
oxaliplatin summary of product characteristics is recommended for patients receiving the capecitabine 
plus oxaliplatin combination. Adjuvant treatment in patients with stage III colon cancer is 
recommended for a duration of 6 months.   
Finally, in combination with docetaxel, the recommended starting dose of capecitabine in the treatment 
of metastatic breast cancer is 1250 mg/m2 twice daily for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period, 
combined with docetaxel at 75 mg/m2 as a 1 hour intravenous infusion every 3 weeks. Pre-medication 
with an oral corticosteroid such as dexamethasone according to the docetaxel summary of product 
characteristics should be started prior to docetaxel administration for patients receiving the 
capecitabine plus docetaxel combination. 
Capecitabine tablets should be swallowed with water within 30 minutes after a meal. Treatment should 
be discontinued if progressive disease or intolerable toxicity is observed. For further posology 
recommendations please refer to section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
The proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage regimen and duration of use of the reference 
medicinal product. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 7/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 150 mg and 500 mg of capecitabine as 
active substance.  
Other ingredients are defined in the SPC section 6.1.   
The tablets are packed in transparent PVC/PE/PVDC – Aluminium blisters in packs of 60 tablets for the 
150 mg strength and 120 tablets for the 500 mg strength. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The active substance of Capecitabine Teva is capecitabine, which has the chemical name: pentyl N-{1-
[(2R,3R,4S,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-5-methyloxolan-2-yl]-5-fluoro-2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyrimidin-4-
yl}carbamate. It corresponds to the molecular formula C15H 22FN3O6 and relative molecular mass of
359.49. It appears as white to off-white not hygroscopic crystalline powder which is soluble in water 
and very soluble in methanol. 
Capecitabine has chiral properties and the molecule contains four stereogenic centers. The 
configuration matches with the corresponding positions 5-deoxy--D-ribofuranosyl. And has a specific 
rotation between +96.0° and +100.0° for a 1.0 % w/v solution in methanol (20º C, Sodium D line).  
A physical characterization report regarding the crystal structure of capecitabine has been presented. 
It has been shown that, capecitabine manufactured by the active substance supplier is consistent with 
regard to the crystalline form. It has been further demonstrated that it is anhydrous and that no 
polymorphic transformation occurred under the conditions tested after slurring in different solvents or 
when subjected to high pressure, dry grinding and heating. No other polymorphic forms are stated to 
be known from the literature.  
Manufacture 
An ASMF has been submitted for the drug substance.  
Detailed information regarding the control of starting materials, reagents and raw materials as well as 
the control of critical steps and intermediates is provided in the ASMF.  
The synthesis process is sufficiently described in the ASMF, the choice of the starting materials has 
been justified, and so have been the process controls, specifications and test methods. Satisfactory 
information on the validation production batches, on the manufacturing process development and on 
the methods used in the control of the starting materials were also provided. The ASMF holder has 
adequately discussed the potential carry-over of all reagents, solvents and auxiliary material and their 
presence in the final drug substance. 
Specification 
The specification of the active substance as set up by the drug product manufacturer includes tests and 
limits for appearance (visual), identification (IR, HPLC), specific optical rotation (Ph.Eur.), water 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 8/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Ph.Eur.), residue on ignition (Ph.Eur.), heavy metals (Ph.Eur.), assay (HPLC), related substances 
(HPLC), residual solvents (GC), particle size distribution (laser light diffraction) and microbiological 
quality (Ph.Eur.). The specifications are adequate to control the quality of the active substance. The 
impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety.  
Batch analysis data is presented in the ASMF for three batches. All the results reported are all within 
proposed specifications. In addition the applicant presented batch analysis data from another five 
batches of capecitabine which have been used to manufacture film-coated tablets. These batches have 
been tested against the full set of specifications as proposed by the applicant including the results from 
microbiological testing and particle size analysis. All the results reported are all within proposed 
specifications. 
Stability 
Two production scale batches of capecitabine have been placed on accelerated (40C/75% RH), 
intermediate (30C/65% RH) and long term (25C/60% RH) conditions according to ICH guidance.  
The batches are packaged in double polyethylene bags placed in a carton drum. Appearance, HPLC 
identity, water content, assay and related substances are monitored during the stability studies.  
24 months of long term, twelve months of intermediate and six months of accelerated data were 
reported. No significant changes in any of the parameters studied were observed and all results were 
within the proposed specifications under either the long term or the intermediate conditions. 
Also after six months at the accelerated condition, all results for the parameters studied were within 
the proposed specifications.  
Photostability and forced degradation studies for the drug substance demonstrated that the drug 
substance can be considered photo-stable in the solid state.  
Based on the stability data provided the proposed re-test period is supported.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the product development was to formulate a medicinal product essentially similar, robust, 
stable and bioequivalent to the reference medicinal product. 
The excipients are all common for this type of dosage form and their usage can be considered justified. 
Also, the excipients of the tablet core are qualitatively the same as those of the original product. The 
stability reported studies reveal no incompatibilities between the active substance and excipients or the 
packaging materials. 
The formulation was optimised by varying the amounts of intra- and extra granular excipients. 
Dissolution testing has been used as a tool to select suitable formulations showing similar dissolution 
profiles with the reference product. A wet granulation method was selected in order to prevent 
segregation and avoid homogeneity problem and the final formula and process were optimised to 
achieve acceptable compressibility and desirable dissolution profiles.  
The dissolution method used for routine testing has been properly developed and sufficiently justified. 
It has been shown to be reasonably discriminatory versus manufacturing process changes and is 
considered acceptable as a routine dissolution test method. Dissolution profiles between test and 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 9/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reference for both strengths have been provided. Bioequivalence studies against both strengths of 
reference product of the final selected formulation have been performed for the generic products. Since 
bioequivalence has been shown for both strengths of test and reference, any differences of the 
dissolution profiles are considered of no concern. The active substance particle size specifications have 
been set in line with the particle size measured for the drug substance used for the bioequivalence 
batches. 
Comparative impurity profiles between the generic and reference products have been presented.  
The tablets are packaged in PVC/PE/PVDC-aluminium blisters. Leakage testing is performed on the 
blister package.  
Adventitious agents 
Except lactose anhydrous, no TSE risk materials are used in the manufacture of the finished product. It 
has been confirmed by the manufacturer of the lactose that it is derived from milk, sourced from 
healthy animals in the same conditions as milk collected for human consumption and is prepared in 
accordance with the relevant requirements laid down in Note for Guidance EMEA/410/01, rev2. 
Appropriate TSE/BSE free declarations were provided. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing method is considered a standard method comprising blending, wet granulation, 
drying, blending and compression. Standard equipment is used. The two strengths are manufactured 
by similar but slightly different processes. The in-process specifications has been satisfactorily justified.  
The manufacturing process has been validated on two pilot scale batches of the respective strength 
using commercial scale equipment. A validation scheme for the first three commercial batches for each 
strength has been agreed. The actual commercial batch size has been defined. All registration batches, 
which are described in the dossier, are validated. 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf-life specifications includes tests and limits for appearance 
(visually), identification of drug substance (HPLC, IR), disintegration (Ph.Eur.), average mass  
(Ph.Eur.), uniformity of dosage units (Ph.Eur.), dissolution (Ph.Eur.), and microbial purity (Ph.Eur.), 
degradation products (HPLC), assay (HPLC), and microbiological quality (Ph.Eur.).  
The proposed limits for the impurities are considered to have been toxicologically qualified and are 
considered acceptable. Batch analysis data have been presented for two pilot scale batches of finished 
product of both strengths (four batches in total including the bioequivalence batches) packaged in 
blisters. All results reported were within proposed specifications and indicate that the process is under 
control, confirming consistency and uniformity of manufacture. 
Stability of the product 
Primary stability studies according to ICH guidance have been initiated on two pilot scale batches of 
the respective 150 mg and 500 mg strengths of tablets. The batches are packaged in the proposed Al-
PVC/PE/PVDC blister package and have been stored under long term 25C/60% RH, intermediate 
30C/75% RH and accelerated 40C/75% RH conditions. The same methods are used, as for the 
release testing. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 10/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following data were reported: up to 18 months of long term, up to twelve months of intermediate 
and six months of accelerated data.   
In the long term condition capecitabine tablets packaged in the proposed blister package comply with 
all specifications for the parameters monitored in the study. Only a slight increase in one impurity 
(metabolite) and total impurities are seen.  In the intermediate condition the batches comply with the 
specifications and only a small increase in one impurity (metabolite) was seen.  
In the accelerated conditions the batches comply with all the specifications after 6 months. The only 
exception is an increase for two impurities which stay however within the set limits. Some out of 
specification results were observed for a third impurity (metabolite), the total impurities, dissolution 
and assay in some of the tested batches. These results from the accelerated storage condition show 
that a temperature storage precaution is necessary for the finished product.  
A photostability study according to ICH guidance has been performed on one batch of each strength.  
The film-coated tablets are not considered light-sensitive and no special storage precaution in this 
respect is considered necessary. 
Based on the overall results an acceptable shelf-life and storage conditions have been established. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile is discussed below and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies were required. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 11/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Capecitabine Teva manufactured by Teva Pharma B.V. is considered unlikely to result in 
any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all capecitabine containing products and the 
exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not 
increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
For the composition of the products under consideration, capecitabine Teva 150/500 mg tablets, the 
following excipients were used: lactose (anhydrous), microcrystalline cellulose, hypromellose, sodium 
croscarmellose, magnesium stearate, opadry y-7000 white, ferri oxidum flavum and ferri oxidum 
rubrum. These excipients are used in the manufacturing of oral pharmaceutical products and are all EP 
listed. 
With respect to the synthetic process and the impurity profile of the capecitabine raw material used for 
the product under consideration, impurities were tested and limited according to USP specifications. 
The applicant claimed that the specifications used to control the quality of capecitabine active 
substance of the drug substance manufacturer were in accordance with the USP monograph of 
capecitabine with additional tests on Particle Size, Residual Solvents and Microbial Purity. In the 
manufacturing process residual solvents were tested and their limits were according to current ICH 
guidelines for all except 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (2-Methyl-THF or MeTHF), for which the applicant 
proposed a limit and also provided relevant toxicological data from the literature. In conclusion, the 
limit for MeTHF was considered acceptable from the toxicological point of view and the amount of 
MeTHF in this formulation of capecitabine was considered toxicologically justified. 
There were three drug-related impurities namely,  compound A (USP) 5’-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine; 
compound B (USP) 5’-deoxy-5-fluorouridine and compound C (USP) 2’3’-O-carbonyl-5’-deoxy-5-fluoro-
N4-(pentyloxycarbonyl) cytidine (USP) .The limits of these impurities were higher than recommended 
by the Note for Guidance on Impurities in New Drug Product /CPMP/ICH/2738/99) with a qualification 
threshold of 0.15% for drug products with a maximum daily dose of > 2g which is the case for 
capecitabine tablets (maximum daily dose for normal body surface area person is 4.3 g).  
Impurities A and B are metabolites of capecitabine and hence were considered qualified for that 
reason. For the compound C, due to the nature of the indication and treatment regimen (given in a 
limited number of days/cycles) and known pharmacological/toxicological profile of the parent drug, the 
proposed level as set by the shelf-life could be considered qualified. This is in line with guidance in ICH 
S9, which is the relevant guideline to consider for a product used for the present indication.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In conclusion, the non-clinical overview presented by the applicant is largely based on published 
scientific literature which is acceptable since capecitabine is a well known active substance.  There are 
no objections to the approval of Capecitabine Teva from a non-clinical point of view. The SmPC of 
Capecitabine Teva is similar to that of the originator product Xeloda and it is therefore acceptable. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 12/21
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing capecitabine. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted 2 bioequivalence studies with cross-over design 
under fed conditions. These studies were the pivotal studies for the assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of capecitabine based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment, the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in 
its current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
Exemption  
Not applicable as bioequivalence studies have been conducted with both strengths applied for. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted two bioequivalence studies; one study with the 
150 mg tablet (study 130/09-06.CE) and one with the 500 mg tablet (study 005/10-06.CE).  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study 130/09-06.CE 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a multicentre, single-dose, randomised, open label, two-sequence, two-treatment, four-
period, replicate crossover, bioavailability study in 70 male and female patients under fed conditions.  
The clinical part of the study was conducted between 13 April 2010 and 13 September 2010  
The analytical part of the study was conducted between 25 June and 5 July 2010, between 1 and 14 
September 2010 and between 16 and 24 November 2010 Patients received capecitabine at 1250 
mg/m2 every 12 h for 14 days in accordance with the standard dosage recommendations for XELODA.. 
For pharmacokinetic evaluation, the morning dose of Days 1, 2, 8, and 9, was replaced by a fixed dose 
of thirteen 150 mg tablets (total dose 1950 mg) from the assigned investigational medical product in 
each period according to the randomization schedule. The evening dose on Days 1, 2, 8, and 9 was of 
the commercially available product that the patient normally consumed during this treatment cycle. 
Since only patients receiving a daily dose of 3600 mg - 4600 mg were included into the study, the total 
daily dose on Days 1, 2, 8, and 9 could deviate from the normal daily dose by no more than 8.2 %.  
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 13/21
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to dose administration in the morning of Days 1, 2, 8, and 9, all patients were served a 
standardised high-fat, high-calorie breakfast, after a minimum 10 h fasting period. The study 
medications were administered orally with 240 ml of water. Blood-samples were collected pre-dose and 
at 0.33, 0.67, 1.0, 1.33, 1.67, 2.0, 2.33, 2.67, 3.0, 4.0, 6.0 and 8.0 hours after drug administration. 
Test and reference products  
Capecitabine, 150 mg tablets, distributed by TEVA, Haarlem, The Netherlands (3B909038S, expiry 
date: 10 September 2010, assayed content: 100.7%) has been compared to Xeloda, 150 mg tablets, 
manufactured by Roche Pharma AG, Germany (batch No. U6013B01, expiry date: April 2012, assayed 
content: 96.4%). 
Population studied   
A total of 70 adult male and female (39 female, 31 male) patients with a diagnosis of colon cancer, 
metastatic colorectal cancer, locally advanced breast cancer or metastatic breast cancer, aged 39-83 
years were enrolled. One patient was withdrawn before administration of the second dose of the 
reference treatment due to an adverse event (severe nausea); she had received one administration of 
the reference and one of the test treatment. All patients receiving at least one administration of the 
test and one of the reference product were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis.   
Analytical methods   
Plasma concentrations of capecitabine were determined with an LC/MS/MS method.  
Pre-study validation 
Specificity was shown employing six independent sources of human plasma. Sensitivity at the limit of 
quantification, 50 ng/ml, was shown. Satisfactory between- and within-run accuracy and precision was 
shown for low, medium and high QC sample concentrations. Linearity was demonstrated within the 
calibration range 50-20 000 ng/ml. Dilution integrity for a factor of 10 was demonstrated. Stability in 
plasma was demonstrated for 6 h at room temperature, for 32 weeks at – 20 C and – 80 C and over 
three freeze-thaw cycles. 
Within-study validation 
Satisfactory method performance during study sample analysis was demonstrated. Appropriate batch 
acceptance criteria were used. Repeated analysis was adequately justified. Long-term stability for a 
period covering the time from first sample collection until last sample analysis (21 weeks) was 
demonstrated. LLOQ was below 1/20 of average Cmax. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
Pharmacokinetic variables were calculated using conventional non-compartmental methods.  The 
pharmacokinetic variables included Cmax, AUC 0-t, AUC 0-, tmax, t½ and extrapolated AUC.  
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 14/21
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods   
The statistical analysis was performed on log-transformed AUC0-t and C max using ANOVA. The protocol 
stated that bioequivalence was to be concluded if the 90% confidence intervals for the test/reference 
ratio of the population geometric means fell within 80.00-125.00% for AUC0-t and C max. 
Results 
Table 1.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for capecitabine 13x150 mg (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
arithmetic mean 
SD 
5567 
5539 
5244 
0.33-2.67 
Reference  
arithmetic mean 
9305 
9647 
6482 
1.45 
SD 
5984 
6068 
6147 
0.33-6.01 
9096 
9488 
6290 
1.39 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours (ng*h/ml) 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (ng*h/ml) 
maximum plasma concentration (ng/ml)  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) (h) 
AUC (0-t)
AUC (0-∞)  
C max  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
AUC 0-∞    
C max  
T max  
Table 2.  Statistical analysis for <analyte> (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
AUC (0-t)
C max  
98.34 
101.44 
95.36-101.41 
93.16-110.45 
CV%* 
15.36 
44.35 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
The extrapolated AUC was less than 20% in all but two subjects after administration of test and in 
three subjects after administration of reference product.  
No pre-dose concentrations were detected. A few subjects reached tmax at the first sampling point (six 
and two subjects after administration of test replicate 1 and 2 respectively and three and three 
subjects after administration of reference replicate 1 and 2 respectively). 
Safety data 
130 AEs were observed in 34 of the 70 patients (48.6%). The observed AEs were mainly mild (59) or 
moderate (57) in intensity and 14 events were severe. A causal relationship to the drug was 
considered reasonably possible in 80 of the 130 AEs. Gastrointestinal disorders were the most 
frequently observed AEs, reported in 24 patients (34.3%). The most frequent AEs were nausea 
(13 events), dyspepsia (11 events), diarrhoea (7 events), constipation (7 events), flatulence (5 
events), abdominal pain (5 events) and vomiting (3 events).  
No deaths and no serious adverse events occurred in this trial. One patient was withdrawn prematurely 
from the study due to severe nausea.  
At the end of the study, 100 AEs were resolved, 7 were resolving and 21 AEs were not resolved. 1 AE 
worsened during the study and for 1 AE the outcome is unknown. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 15/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 005/10-06.CE 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a multicentre, single-dose, randomised, open label, two-sequence, two-treatment, four-
period, replicate crossover, bioavailability study in 72 male and female patients under fed conditions.  
The clinical part of the study was conducted between 19 July 2010 and 26 October 2010  
The analytical part of the study was conducted between 14 and 23 September 2010 and between 24 
November and 13 December 2010  
Patients received capecitabine at 1250 mg/m2 every 12 h for 14 days in accordance with the standard 
dosage recommendations for Xeloda. For pharmacokinetic evaluation, the morning dose of Days 1, 2, 
8, and 9, was replaced by a fixed dose of four 500 mg tablets (total dose 2000 mg) from the assigned 
investigational medical product in each period according to the randomisation schedule. The evening 
dose on Days 1, 2, 8, and 9 was of the commercially available product that the patient normally 
consumed during this treatment cycle. Since only patients receiving a daily dose of 3600 mg - 4600 
mg were included into the study, the total daily dose on Days 1, 2, 8, and 9 could deviate from the 
normal daily dose by no more than 6.5%.  
Prior to dose administration in the morning of Days 1, 2, 8, and 9, all patients were served a 
standardised high-fat, high-calorie breakfast, after a minimum 10 h fasting period. The study 
medications were administered orally with 240 ml of water. Blood-samples were collected pre-dose and 
at 0.33, 0.67, 1.0, 1.33, 1.67, 2.0, 2.33, 2.67, 3.0, 4.0, 6.0 and 8.0 hours after drug administration. 
Test and reference products  
Capecitabine, 500 mg tablets, distributed by TEVA, Haarlem, The Netherlands (batch No. 6B910019S, 
expiry date: 19 October 2010, assayed content 101.3%) has been compared to Xeloda, 500 mg 
tablets, manufactured by Roche Pharma AG, Germany (batch No. U9390B01, expiry date: June 2012, 
assayed content 97.1%). 
Population studied   
A total of 72 adult male and female (40 female, 32 male) patients with a diagnosis of colon cancer, 
metastatic colorectal cancer, locally advanced breast cancer or metastatic breast cancer, aged 34-78 
years were enrolled. Five patients discontinued the study prematurely. Primary reasons for 
discontinuation were adverse events in four patients, and non-compliance with the protocol in one 
patient. All patients had received at least one administration of the test and one of the reference 
product. In two of these patients, protocol violations were identified and the pharmacokinetic samples 
were destroyed without documentation. Therefore no pharmacokinetic data were available for these 
patients. All patients receiving at least one administration of the test and one of the reference product 
were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Altogether 70 subjects were included in the 
pharmacokinetic analysis.   
Analytical methods   
Plasma concentrations of capecitabine were determined with an LC/MS/MS method.  
Pre-study validation 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 16/21
 
 
 
 
 
Specificity was shown employing six independent sources of human plasma. Sensitivity at the limit of 
quantification, 50 ng/ml, was shown. Satisfactory between- and within-run accuracy and precision was 
shown for low, medium and high QC sample concentrations. Linearity was demonstrated within the 
calibration range 50-20 000 ng/ml. Dilution integrity for a factor of 10 was demonstrated. Stability in 
plasma was demonstrated for 6 h at room temperature, for 32 weeks at – 20 C and – 80 C and over 
three freeze-thaw cycles. 
Within-study validation 
Satisfactory method performance during study sample analysis was demonstrated. Appropriate batch 
acceptance criteria were used. Repeated analysis was adequately justified. Long-term stability for a 
period covering the time from first sample collection until last sample analysis (21 weeks) was 
demonstrated. LLOQ was below 1/20 of average Cmax. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
Pharmacokinetic variables were calculated using conventional non-compartmental methods.  The 
pharmacokinetic variables included Cmax, AUC 0-t, AUC 0-, tmax, t½ and extrapolated AUC.  
Statistical methods   
The statistical analysis was performed on log-transformed AUC0-t and C max using ANOVA. The protocol 
stated that bioequivalence was to be concluded if the 90% confidence intervals for the test/reference 
ratio of the population geometric means fell within 80.00-125.00% for AUC0-t and C max. 
Results 
Table 3.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for capecitabine 4x500 mg (non-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
arithmetic mean 
SD 
3670 
3677 
4548 
0.33-8.00 
Reference  
arithmetic mean 
7139 
7366 
5235 
1.63 
SD 
3338 
3414 
3896 
0.33-4.00 
7406 
7539 
5777 
1.16 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours (ng*h/ml) 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (ng*h/ml) 
maximum plasma concentration (ng/ml)  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) (h) 
AUC (0-t)
AUC (0-∞)  
C max  
Tmax* 
AUC 0-t  
AUC 0-∞    
C max  
T max  
Table 4.  Statistical analysis for <analyte> (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
Confidence Intervals 
AUC (0-t)
C max  
102.46 
108.38 
99.02-106.02 
100.04-117.42 
CV%* 
16.06 
41.44 
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
The extrapolated AUC was less than 20% in all but one subject after administration of test and in two 
subjects after administration of reference product.  
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 17/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No pre-dose concentrations were detected. A few subjects reached tmax at the first sampling point 
(three and seven subjects after administration of test replicate 1 and 2 respectively and four and three 
subjects after administration of reference replicate 1 and 2 respectively). 
Safety data 
83 AEs were observed in 25 of the 72 patients (34.7%). The observed AEs were mainly mild (39) or 
moderate (33) in intensity and 11 events were severe. A causal relationship to the drug was 
considered reasonably possible in 51 of the 83 AEs. Gastrointestinal disorders were the most 
frequently observed AEs, reported in 11 patients (15.3%). The most frequent AEs were vomiting (5 
events), headache (4 events) and dizziness (4 events).  
No deaths occurred in this trial. Four patients discontinued the study due to AEs. In two of these 
patients SAEs were reported.  
At the end of the study, 60 AEs were resolved, 7 were resolving and 13 AEs were not resolved. 2 AEs 
worsened during the study and for 1 AE the outcome is unknown. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Capecitabine Teva is considered bioequivalent with 
Xeloda. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.   Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In this application no new efficacy or safety data have been submitted and none are required. The 
applicant has provided an acceptable review of clinical trial published in literature, describing the 
efficacy and safety profile of capecitabine. No new dose recommendations compared with the reference 
product have been made for this generic application. 
Studies 130/09-06.CE and 005/10-06.CE, the two pivotal bioequivalence studies, were both 
multicentre, single-dose, randomised, open label, two-sequence, two-treatment, four-period, replicate 
crossover, bioavailability studies in male and female patients under fed conditions. There is nothing in 
the study reports that gives rise to any doubts regarding GCP-compliance. Three of the clinical sites 
are regular cancer clinics.  
A single-dose bioequivalence study is adequate to demonstrate bioequivalence of an orally 
administered immediate-release formulation. Moreover, as the SmPC of the reference product 
recommends administration within 30 minutes after a meal, a study in the fed state is appropriate. 
Both studies were part of the patients’ regular therapy and therefore the dosage schedule had to be 
adjusted to fit into the regular schedule. Given the very short half-life of 0.85 h of capecitabine, the 
sampling period and wash-out period are considered long enough. The absorption phase is likely 
covered with the given sampling schedule. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 18/21
 
 
 
 
 
Both bioequivalence studies were performed in patients, which is acceptable since capecitabine is a 
cytotoxic substance and not suitable for administration in healthy volunteers. Reasons for withdrawal 
of patients from the study were considered acceptable. 
The performance of the analytical method was satisfactory. 
For AUC 0-t and C max the 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the test and reference products fell 
within the conventional acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%. 
The statistical model used is not the one that is recommended as the primary approach for replicate 
designs in the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev. 1). 
What may cause the results to be different is if there are many subjects who do not provide data for all 
periods. Here, 69 out of 70 patients included in the analysis of pharmacokinetics completed the entire 
course of the study. Hence, with few subjects with missing data and, considering that the results are 
convincing, the method used is accepted.  
It is preferable that no subjects reach tmax at the first sampling point. Given the short half-life of 
capecitabine it is however understandable that this occurs in a few patients and it is not considered to 
have affected the overall results. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval from a clinical point of view. Bioequivalence between the test and 
reference product has been adequately demonstrated. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application is 
based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk 
minimisation activities have been identified. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a 3-yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 
31 October 2014. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 19/21
 
 
 
 
 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of capecitabine film coated tablets. The reference product 
Xeloda is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III (Dukes’ 
stage C) colon cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen. 
Capecitabine Teva in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Teva is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The two bioequivalence studies form the pivotal basis with a multicentre, single-dose, randomised, 
open label, two-sequence, two-treatment, four-period, replicate crossover design in cancer patients 
under fed conditions. The design of the studies was considered adequate to evaluate the 
bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Studies 
in the fed state were considered appropriate, as the SmPC of the reference product recommends 
administration within 30 minutes after a meal. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time 
and wash-out periods were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Capecitabine Teva met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Xeloda. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters 
AUC 0-t, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80 to 
125%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 20/21
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Capecitabine Teva in the following indication: 
“Capecitabine is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III (Dukes’ 
stage C) colon cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen. 
Capecitabine Teva in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Teva is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated.” 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Capecitabine Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 21/21
 
 
 
 
 
  
