EMA/797340/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002315 
EPAR summary for the public 
Caprelsa 
vandetanib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Caprelsa. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Caprelsa. 
For practical information about using Caprelsa, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Caprelsa and what is it used for? 
Caprelsa is a cancer medicine that is used in adults and children above 5 years of age to treat 
medullary thyroid cancer, a cancer that starts off in the cells in the thyroid gland that produce the 
hormone calcitonin. The medicine is used when the disease is spreading quickly and causes symptoms, 
and when the cancer cannot be removed by surgery and has progressed or spread to other parts of the 
body. 
Caprelsa contains the active substance vandetanib.  
How is Caprelsa used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment with Caprelsa should be started 
and supervised by a doctor who has experience of treating medullary thyroid cancer, of using cancer 
medicines and of assessing electrocardiograms (ECG, a test that measures the electrical activity of the 
heart). Patients must be given a patient alert card containing important safety information and they 
must be informed by their doctor about the risks of Caprelsa. 
Caprelsa is available as tablets (100 mg and 300 mg) and the recommended dose for adults is 300 mg 
once a day, taken at around the same time each day. The dose for children aged 5 years or older is 
calculated using the child’s weight and height. Patients who cannot swallow tablets can mix the tablet 
in plain (non-sparkling) water. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The doctor may temporarily stop Caprelsa treatment and reduce the dose if the patient has abnormal 
ECG or severe side effects. Treatment is continued for as long as the patient benefits from it. 
Caprelsa may work less well in patients without a mutation (change) in a gene called the ‘rearranged 
during transfection’ (RET) gene. It is recommended that the doctor checks for RET mutation at the 
start of Caprelsa treatment.  
How does Caprelsa work? 
The active substance in Caprelsa, vandetanib, is a ‘protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor’. This means that it 
blocks the activity of enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes are needed by certain 
receptors (such as VEGF, EGF and RET receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, where they activate 
several processes including cell division and the growth of new blood vessels. By blocking the activity 
of VEGF receptors, the medicine reduces the blood supply to the cancer cells, slowing down the 
cancer’s growth. By blocking the activity of EGF receptors, the cancer cells no longer receive the 
messages needed for growth and multiplication. Vandetanib also blocks the activity of RET receptors, 
which play a role in the growth of medullary thyroid cancer cells.  
What benefits of Caprelsa have been shown in the studies? 
In a main study, Caprelsa was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) in adults with 
medullary thyroid cancer that could not be removed by surgery or had spread to other parts of the 
body. The study involved 331 patients and the main measure of effectiveness was progression-free 
survival (how long the patients lived without their disease getting worse). On average, patients taking 
Caprelsa lived for 30.5 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 19.3 months for 
patients taking placebo.  
In a second main study, Caprelsa was given to children aged between 9 and 17 years with hereditary 
medullary thyroid cancer. The main measure of effectiveness was ‘overall response rate’ (ORR) which 
considers several features of the disease. Of the 16 children treated with Caprelsa, 7 (44%) had partial 
response on the ORR scale, which was comparable to the response rate in adults. On average children 
taking Caprelsa lived for 46 months without their disease getting worse. 
What are the risks associated with Caprelsa? 
The most commonly reported side effects with Caprelsa are diarrhoea, rash, nausea (feeling sick), high 
blood pressure and headache. For the full list of all side effects reported with Caprelsa, see the 
package leaflet. 
Caprelsa can affect the electrical activity of the heart including a measurement called QTc interval. It 
must not be used in people with a problem called ‘congenital long QTc syndrome’ or who have a QTc 
interval longer than 480 milliseconds. Caprelsa must not be used with other medicines that can prolong 
the QTc interval. It must also not be used in women who are breast-feeding. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Caprelsa approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Caprelsa was shown to be effective in the treatment of medullary thyroid 
cancer in patients aged 5 years and older. However, it was uncertain how well it works in patients 
without a mutation (change) in a gene called the ‘rearranged during transfection’ (RET) gene or in 
patients whose RET mutation status is not known. The Committee noted the potential risk for QTc 
Caprelsa  
EMA/797340/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
interval prolongation, and measures were introduced to minimise this risk. The CHMP concluded that 
the benefits of Caprelsa outweigh its risks in patients whose disease is spreading quickly and is causing 
symptoms, since they are in urgent need of treatment. Therefore, the Committee recommended that 
Caprelsa be granted marketing authorisation. 
Caprelsa has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come about 
the medicine, in particular on the size of the benefit in patients without the RET mutation. Every year, 
the European Medicines Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this 
summary will be updated as necessary.  
What information is still awaited for Caprelsa? 
The company that markets Caprelsa will carry out a study in patients with medullary thyroid cancer to 
compare the effects of Caprelsa in patients with and without the RET mutation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Caprelsa? 
The company that markets Caprelsa will ensure that doctors who are expected to prescribe Caprelsa 
receive educational material containing important safety information about Caprelsa, including 
measures to manage the risk of QTc prolongation and other potential side effects, and a patient alert 
card and guidance for children or their carers.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Caprelsa have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Caprelsa 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Caprelsa on 17 February 2012.  
The full EPAR for Caprelsa can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Caprelsa, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016.  
Caprelsa  
EMA/797340/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
