ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Caprelsa 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Caprelsa 300 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Caprelsa 100 mg tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of vandetanib. 
Caprelsa 300 mg tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of vandetanib. 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Caprelsa 100 mg tablets 
The Caprelsa 100 mg tablet is a round, biconvex, white film-coated tablet with ‘Z100’ impressed on 
one side. 
Caprelsa 300 mg tablets 
The Caprelsa 300 mg tablet is an oval-shaped, biconvex, white film-coated tablet with ‘Z300’ 
impressed on one side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Caprelsa is indicated for the treatment of aggressive and symptomatic Rearranged during Transfection 
(RET) mutant medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or 
metastatic disease.  
Caprelsa is indicated in adults, children and adolescents aged 5 years and older. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in treatment of MTC and in 
the use of anticancer medicinal products and experienced in the assessment of electrocardiogram 
(ECG).  
Rearranged during transfection (RET) status 
Since the activity of Caprelsa, based on available data, is considered insufficient in patients with no 
identified RET mutation, the presence of a RET mutation should be determined by a validated test 
prior to initiation of treatment with Caprelsa. When establishing RET mutation status, tissue samples 
should be obtained if possible at the time of initiation of treatment rather than at the time of diagnosis. 
Posology for MTC in adult patients 
The recommended dose is 300 mg once a day, taken with or without food at about the same time each 
day.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers. If it is less than 12 hours to 
the next dose, the patient should not take the missed dose. Patients should not take a double dose (two 
doses at the same time) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Dose adjustments in adult patients with MTC 
QTc interval should be carefully assessed prior to initiation of treatment. In the event of common 
terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) grade 3 or higher toxicity or prolongation of the 
ECG QTc interval, dosing with vandetanib should be at least temporarily stopped and resumed at a 
reduced dose when toxicity has resolved or improved to CTCAE grade 1 (see section 4.4). The 
300 mg daily dose can be reduced to 200 mg (two 100 mg tablets), and then to 100 mg if necessary. 
The patient must be monitored appropriately. Due to the 19-day half-life, adverse reactions including a 
prolonged QTc interval may not resolve quickly (see section 4.4). 
Posology in paediatric patients with MTC 
Dosing for paediatric patients should be on the basis of BSA in mg/m2. Paediatric patients treated with 
Caprelsa and patients’ caregivers must be given the dosing guide and be informed on the correct dose 
to be taken with the initial prescription and each subsequent dose adjustment. Recommended dosing 
regimens and dose modifications are presented in Table 1.  
Table 1: Dosing nomogram for paediatric patients with MTC 
BSA (m2) 
Start dose (mg)a 
0.7 - <0.9 
0.9 - <1.2 
1.2 - <1.6 
≥ 1.6 
100 every other day 
100 daily 
7 day schedule: 
100-200-100-200-100-
200-100 
200 daily 
Dose increase (mg)b  
when tolerated well  
after 8 weeks at starting 
dose 
100 daily 
7 day schedule: 
100-200-100-200-100-
200-100 
200 daily 
Dose reduction (mg) c 
- 
100 every other day 
100 daily 
300 daily 
7 day schedule: 
100-200-100-200-100-
200-100 
a The starting dose is the dose at which treatment should be initiated 
b Higher vandetanib doses than 150 mg/m2 have not been used in clinical studies in paediatric patients  
c Patients with an adverse reaction requiring a dose reduction should stop taking vandetanib for at least a week. Dosing can be 
resumed at a reduced dose thereafter when fully recovered from adverse reactions 
Dose adjustments in paediatric patients with MTC 
•  In the event of CTCAE grade 3 or higher toxicity or prolongation of the ECG QTc interval,  
  dosing with vandetanib should be at least temporarily stopped and resumed at a reduced dose 
when toxicity has resolved or improved to CTCAE grade 1.  
•  Patients who are on the starting dose (a in Table 1), should be recommenced at the reduced dose 
(c in Table 1).   
•  Patients who are on the increased dose (b in Table 1), should be recommenced at the starting 
dose (a in Table 1). If another event of common terminology criteria for adverse events 
(CTCAE) grade 3 or higher toxicity or prolongation of the ECG QTc interval occurs, dosing 
with Caprelsa should be at least temporarily stopped and resumed at a reduced dose (c in Table 
1) when toxicity has resolved or improved to CTCAE grade 1. 
•  If a further event of CTCAE grade 3 or higher toxicity or prolongation of the ECG QTc interval 
occurs, dosing with vandetanib should be permanently stopped. 
The patient must be monitored appropriately. Due to the 19-day half-life, adverse reactions including a 
prolonged QTc interval may not resolve quickly (see section 4.4). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration  
Vandetanib may be administered until disease progression or until the benefits of treatment 
continuation do no longer outweigh its risk, thereby considering the severity of adverse events (see 
sections 4.8) in relation to the degree of clinical stabilization of the tumour status. 
Special patient populations 
Paediatric population 
Caprelsa should not be given to children below 5 years of age. The safety and efficacy of Caprelsa in 
children below 5 years of age have not been established. No data are available. 
There is no experience in paediatric patients with hereditary MTC below 9 years of age (see section 
5.1). Patients aged 5-18 years should be dosed according to the nomogram in Table 1. Vandetanib 
doses higher than 150 mg/m2 have not been used in clinical studies in paediatric patients.  
Elderly 
No adjustment in starting dose is required for elderly patients. There is limited clinical data with 
vandetanib in patients with MTC aged over 75. 
Renal impairment in adult patients with MTC 
A pharmacokinetic study in volunteers with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment shows that 
exposure to vandetanib after single dose is increased up to 1.5, 1.6 and 2-fold respectively in patients 
with mild, moderate (creatinine clearance ≥ 30 to < 50 ml/min) and severe (clearance below 
30 ml/min) renal impairment at baseline (see section 5.2). Clinical data suggest that no change in 
starting dose is required in patients with mild renal impairment. There is limited data with 300 mg in 
patients with moderate renal impairment: the dose needed to be lowered to 200 mg in 5 out of 6 
patients due to an adverse reaction of QT prolongation. The starting dose should be reduced to 200 mg 
in patients with moderate renal impairment; safety and efficacy have however not been established 
with 200 mg (see section 4.4). Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal 
impairment since there is limited data in patients with severe renal impairment, and safety and efficacy 
have not been established. 
Renal impairment in paediatric patients with MTC 
There is no experience with the use of vandetanib in paediatric patients with renal impairment.  
Considering the data available in adult patients with renal impairment: 
• No change in starting dose is recommended in paediatric patients with mild renal impairment 
• The reduced dose as specified in Table 1 should be used in paediatric patients with moderate 
renal impairment. Individual patient management will be required by the physician, especially 
in paediatric patients with low BSA. 
• Vandetanib is not recommended in paediatric patients with severe renal impairment 
Hepatic impairment 
Vandetanib is not recommended for use in adult and paediatric patients with hepatic impairment 
(serum bilirubin greater than 1.5 times upper limit of reference range (ULRR), this criterion does not 
apply to patients with Gilbert’s Disease and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), or alkaline phosphatase (ALP) greater than 2.5 times ULRR, or greater than 
5.0 times ULRR if judged by the physician to be related to liver metastases), since there is limited data 
in patients with hepatic impairment, and safety and efficacy have not been established (see 
section 4.4).  
Pharmacokinetic data from volunteers, suggests that no change in starting dose is required in patients 
with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Method of administration 
Caprelsa is for oral use. For patients who have difficulty swallowing, vandetanib tablets may be 
dispersed in half a glass of non-carbonated drinking water. No other liquids should be used. The tablet 
is to be dropped in water, without crushing, stirred until dispersed (approximately 10 minutes) and the 
resultant dispersion swallowed immediately. Any residues in the glass are to be mixed with half a 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glass of water and swallowed. The liquid can also be administered through nasogastric or gastrostomy 
tubes. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Congenital long QTc syndrome. 
Patients with a QTc interval over 480 msec.  
Concomitant use of vandetanib with the following medicinal products known to also prolong 
the QTc interval and/or induce Torsades de pointes: Arsenic, cisapride, erythromycin 
intravenous (IV), toremifene, mizolastine, moxifloxacin, Class IA and III antiarrhythmics (see 
section 4.5). 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In view of the associated risks, it is important to limit treatment with vandetanib to patients who are in 
real need for treatment, i.e. with a symptomatic-aggressive course of the disease. Either symptomatic 
disease or progressive disease alone is not enough to prompt the need of treatment with vandetanib. 
Rate of change in biomarker levels such as of calcitonin (CTN) and/or carcinoembryonic antigen 
(CEA) as well as the rate of change of tumour volume during watchful waiting might help to identify 
not only patients in need for treatment but also the optimal moment to commence treatment with 
vandetanib. 
QTc prolongation and Torsades de Pointes 
Vandetanib at a dose of 300 mg is associated with a substantial and concentration dependent 
prolongation in QTc (mean 28 msec, median 35 msec). First QTc prolongations occurred most often in 
the first 3 months of treatment, but continued to first occur after this time. The half-life of vandetanib 
(19 days) renders this prolongation in QTc interval particularly problematic (see section 4.8). At a 
dose of 300 mg per day in MTC, ECG QTc prolongation to above 500 msec was observed in a phase 
III study in 11% of patients. ECG QTc prolongation appears to be dose-dependent. Torsades de 
pointes and ventricular tachycardia have been uncommonly reported in patients administered 
vandetanib 300 mg daily. The risk of Torsades may be increased in patients with electrolyte imbalance 
(see section 4.8). 
Vandetanib treatment must not be started in patients whose ECG QTc interval is greater than 
480 msec. Vandetanib should not be given to patients who have a history of Torsades de pointes. 
Vandetanib has not been studied in patients with ventricular arrhythmias or recent myocardial 
infarction. 
An ECG, and levels of serum potassium, calcium and magnesium and thyroid stimulating hormone 
(TSH) should be obtained at baseline, at 1, 3, 6 and 12 weeks after starting treatment and every 
3 months for at least a year thereafter. This schedule should apply to the period after dose reduction 
due to QTc prolongation and after dose interruption for more than two weeks. ECGs and blood tests 
should also be obtained as clinically indicated during this period and afterwards. Frequent ECG 
monitoring of the QTc interval should be continued. 
Serum potassium, serum magnesium and serum calcium should be kept within normal range to reduce 
the risk of ECG QTc prolongation. Additional monitoring of QTc, electrolytes and renal function are 
required especially in case of diarrhoea, increase in diarrhoea/dehydration, electrolyte imbalance 
and/or impaired renal function. If QTc increases markedly but stays below 500 msec, cardiologist 
advice should be sought. 
The administration of vandetanib with substances known to prolong the ECG QTc interval is 
contraindicated or not recommended (see section 4.3 and 4.5).  
The concomitant use of vandetanib with ondansetron is not recommended (see section 4.5) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who develop a single value of a QTc interval of ≥500 msec should stop taking 
vandetanib. Dosing can be resumed at a reduced dose after return of the QTc interval to 
pretreatment status has been confirmed and correction of possible electrolyte imbalance has 
been made. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, PRES (Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome-RPLS) 
PRES is a syndrome of subcortical vasogenic oedema diagnosed by a MRI of the brain, has been 
observed infrequently with vandetanib treatment in combination with chemotherapy. PRES has also 
been observed in patients receiving vandetanib as monotherapy. This syndrome should be considered 
in any patient presenting with seizures, headache, visual disturbances, confusion or altered mental 
function. Brain MRI should be performed in any patient presenting with seizures, confusion or altered 
mental status. 
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs) and other skin reactions 
SCARs, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can 
be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported in association with vandetanib treatment. At the time of 
prescription patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored closely for skin 
reactions. For suspected SJS or TEN, vandetanib should be withheld and the patient should be referred 
to a specialised unit for assessment and treatment. If SJS or TEN is confirmed, vandetanib should be 
permanently discontinued and an alternative treatment considered (as appropriate).  
Photosensitivity reactions have been observed in patients who have received vandetanib. Care should 
be taken with sun exposure by wearing protective clothing and/or sunscreen due to the potential risk of 
phototoxicity reactions associated with vandetanib treatment. 
Mild to moderate skin reactions can be managed by symptomatic treatment, or by dose reduction or 
interruption. 
Diarrhoea 
Diarrhoea is a disease related symptom as well as a known undesirable effect of vandetanib. Routine 
anti-diarrhoeal agents are recommended for the treatment of diarrhoea. QTc and serum electrolytes 
should be monitored more frequently. If severe diarrhoea (CTCAE grade 3-4) develops, vandetanib 
should be stopped until diarrhoea improves. Upon improvement, treatment should be resumed at a 
reduced dose (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Haemorrhage 
Caution should be used when administering vandetanib to patients with brain metastases, as 
intracranial haemorrhage has been reported. 
Heart failure 
Heart failure has been observed in patients who received vandetanib. Temporary or permanent 
discontinuation of therapy may be necessary in patients with heart failure. It may not be reversible on 
stopping vandetanib. Some cases have been fatal. 
Hypertension 
Hypertension, including hypertensive crisis, has been observed in patients treated with vandetanib. 
Patients should be monitored for hypertension and controlled as appropriate. If high blood pressure 
cannot be controlled with medical management, vandetanib should not be restarted until the blood 
pressure is controlled medically. Reduction in dose may be necessary (see section 4.8). 
Wound healing complications  
No formal studies of the effect of vandetanib on wound healing have been conducted. Impaired wound 
healing can occur in patients who receive drugs that inhibit the VEGF signalling pathway and has been 
reported in patients receiving vandetanib. Although evidence for an optimal duration of treatment 
interruption prior to scheduled surgery is very limited, temporary interruption of vandetanib should be 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considered for at least 4 weeks prior to elective surgery based on individual benefit-risk. The decision 
to resume vandetanib following a major surgical procedure should be based on clinical judgment of 
adequate wound healing. 
Aneurysms and artery dissections 
The use of VEGF pathway inhibitors in patients with or without hypertension may promote the 
formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections. Before initiating vandetanib, this risk should be 
carefully considered in patients with risk factors such as hypertension or history of aneurysm. 
Renal failure 
Renal failure has been reported in patients treated with vandetanib (see section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects). Dose interruptions, adjustments, or discontinuation may be necessary (see section 4.2). 
Vandetanib exposure is increased in patients with impaired renal function. Vandetanib starting dose 
should be reduced to 200 mg in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥30 to 
<50 mL/min) and the QT interval should be closely monitored.  
Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (clearance below 30 
mL/min) (see sections 4.2, 5.1, and 5.2). There is no information available for patients with end-stage 
renal disease requiring dialysis. 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
Vandetanib is not recommended for use in patients with hepatic impairment (serum bilirubin greater 
than 1.5 times upper limit of normal), since there is limited data in patients with hepatic impairment, 
and safety and efficacy have not been established. Pharmacokinetic data from volunteers, suggests that 
no change in starting dose is required in patients with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Alanine aminotransferase elevations 
Alanine aminotransferase elevations occur commonly in patients treated with vandetanib. The 
majority of elevations resolve while continuing treatment, others usually resolve after a 1-2 week 
interruption in therapy. Periodic monitoring of alanine aminotransferase is recommended. 
Interstitial lung disease 
Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) has been observed in patients receiving vandetanib and some cases 
have been fatal. If a patient presents with respiratory symptoms such as dyspnoea, cough and fever, 
vandetanib treatment should be interrupted and prompt investigation initiated. If ILD is confirmed, 
vandetanib should be permanently discontinued and the patient treated appropriately.  
CYP3A4 inducers 
The concomitant use of vandetanib with strong CYP3A4 inducers (such as rifampicin, St John’s Wort, 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital) should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
CTN less than 500 pg/ml 
The benefit of vandetanib in patients with CTN less than 500 pg/ml has not been determined, therefore 
use in patients with CTN < 500 pg/ml should be carefully considered because of the treatment related 
risks of vandetanib. 
Paediatric population 
Based on height measurements at all visits, all children and adolescents in a paediatric study 
demonstrated linear growth while receiving vandetanib. However, long term safety data in paediatric 
patients are not available. 
Patient alert card  
All prescribers of Caprelsa must be familiar with the Physician Information and Management 
Guidelines. The prescriber must discuss the risks of Caprelsa therapy with the patient. The patient will 
be provided with the Patient Alert Card with each prescription.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Effect of vandetanib on other medicinal products  
In healthy subjects, the exposure for midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) was not affected when given 
together with a single dose of vandetanib at 800 mg. 
Vandetanib is an inhibitor of the organic cation 2 (OCT2) transporter. In healthy subjects with wild 
type for OCT2, the AUC(0-t) and Cmax for metformin (OCT2 substrate) were increased by 74% and 
50%, respectively and CLR of metformin was decreased by 52% when given together with vandetanib. 
Appropriate clinical and/or laboratory monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant 
metformin and vandetanib, and such patients may require a lower dose of metformin. 
In healthy subjects, the AUC(0-t) and Cmax for digoxin (P-gp substrate) were increased by 23% and 29% 
respectively, when given together due to P-gp inhibition by vandetanib. Furthermore, the bradycardiac 
effect of digoxin may increase the risk of vandetanib QTc interval prolongation and Torsade de 
Pointes. Therefore, an appropriate clinical (e.g. ECG) and/or laboratory monitoring is recommended 
for patients receiving concomitant digoxin and vandetanib, and such patients may require a lower dose 
of digoxin. (For vandetanib monitoring, see section 4.2 Posology and Method of administration and 
section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use). 
As regards other P-gp substrates such as dabigatran, a clinical monitoring is recommended in case of 
combination with vandetanib. 
Effect of other medicinal products on vandetanib 
In healthy subjects, no clinically significant interaction was shown between vandetanib (a single dose 
of 300mg) and the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, itraconazole (repeated doses of 200mg once daily). In 
healthy male subjects, the exposure to vandetanib was reduced by 40% when given together with the 
potent CYP3A4 inducer, rifampicin. Administration of vandetanib with potent CYP3A4 inducers 
should be avoided. 
In healthy subjects, the Cmax for vandetanib was decreased by 15% while the AUC(0-t)  for vandetanib 
was not affected when given together with omeprazole. Neither the Cmax nor the AUC(0-t) for 
vandetanib was affected when given together with ranitidine. Therefore, no change in dose of 
vandetanib is required when vandetanib is given with either omeprazole or ranitidine. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Biliary excretion of unchanged vandetanib is one of the excretion pathways for vandetanib. 
Vandetanib is not a substrate of multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2), p-glycoprotein (P-gp) or 
breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). 
Medicinal products known to prolong QTc interval 
Vandetanib has been shown to prolong the ECG QTc interval; Torsades de pointes have been 
uncommonly reported. Therefore, the concomitant use of vandetanib with medicinal products known 
to also prolong the QTc interval and/or induce Torsades de pointes is either contraindicated or not 
recommended depending on existing alternative therapies. 
• 
• 
Combinations contraindicated (see section 4.3): Cisapride, erythromycin intravenous (IV), 
toremifene, mizolastine, moxifloxacin, arsenic, Class IA and III antiarrhythmics  
Combinations not recommended: Methadone, haloperidol, amisulpride, chlorpromazine, 
sulpiride, zuclopenthixol, halofantrine, pentamidine and lumefantrine. 
If there is no appropriate alternative therapy, not recommended combinations with vandetanib may be 
made with additional ECG monitoring of the QTc interval, evaluation of electrolytes and further 
control at onset or worsening of diarrhoea.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of a pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interaction study indicated that co-administration 
with ondansetron in healthy patients appeared to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
vandetanib, but had a small additive effect on the prolongation of the QTc interval of approximately 
10 ms. Therefore, the concomitant use of ondansetron with vandetanib is not recommended. If 
ondansetron is administered with vandetanib, closer monitoring of serum electrolytes and ECGs and 
aggressive management of any abnormalities is required. 
Vitamin K antagonists 
Due to the increased thrombotic risk in patients with cancer, the use of anticoagulation is frequent. In 
consideration of the high intra-individual variability of the response to anticoagulation, and the 
possibility of interaction between vitamin K antagonists and chemotherapy, an increased frequency of 
the INR (International Normalised Ratio) monitoring is recommended, if it is decided to treat the 
patient with vitamin K antagonists. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during therapy and for at least four 
months following the last dose.  
Pregnancy 
There is a limited amount of data on the use of vandetanib during pregnancy. As expected from its 
pharmacological actions, vandetanib has shown significant effects on all stages of female reproduction 
in rats (see section 5.3). 
If vandetanib is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving vandetanib, 
she should be apprised of the potential for foetal abnormalities or loss of the pregnancy. Treatment 
should only be continued in pregnant women if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the risk 
to the foetus.  
Breast-feeding 
There are no data on the use of vandetanib in breast-feeding women. Vandetanib and/or its metabolites 
is excreted into milk in rats and found in plasma of pups following dosing to lactating rats (see 
section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding is contraindicated while receiving vandetanib therapy. 
Fertility 
In rats, vandetanib had no effect on male fertility but impaired female fertility (see section 5.3). 
Effects on reproduction in paediatric patients treated with vandetanib are not known. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies to establish the effects of vandetanib on ability to drive and use machines have been 
conducted. However, fatigue and blurred vision have been reported and those patients who experience 
these symptoms should observe caution when driving or using machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profileThe most commonly reported adverse drug reactions have been 
diarrhoea, rash, nausea, hypertension, and headache. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been identified in clinical studies with patients receiving 
vandetanib as treatment for MTC and in post-marketing setting. Their frequency is presented in Table 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2, adverse reactions using Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS III), 
listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) and at the preferred term level and then by frequency 
classification. Frequencies of occurrence of undesirable effects are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).  
Table 2: Adverse reactions and system organ class 
Very common 
System Organ 
Class 
Infection and 
infestation 
disorders 
Common 
Nasopharyngitis 
bronchitis, upper 
respiratory tract 
infections, 
urinary tract 
infections 
Pneumonia, sepsis, 
influenza, cystitis, 
sinusitis, laryngitis, 
folliculitis, furuncle, 
fungal infection, 
pyelonephritis 
Hypothyroidism 
Hypokalaemia, 
hypercalcaemia, 
hyperglycemia, 
dehydration, 
hyponatremia 
Anxiety 
Tremor, lethargy, 
loss of 
consciousness, 
balance disorders, 
dysgeusia 
Visual impairment, 
halo vision, 
photopsia, glaucoma, 
conjunctivitis, dry 
eye, keratopathy 
Hypertensive crisis, 
ischaemic 
cerebrovascular 
conditions 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis, 
pneumonitis 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Appendicitis, 
staphylococcal 
infection, 
diverticulitis, 
cellulitis, abdominal 
wall abscess 
Malnutrition 
Convulsion, clonus, 
brain oedema 
Cataract, 
accommodation 
disorders 
Heart failure, acute 
heart failure, rate 
and rhythm 
disorders, cardiac 
conduction 
disorders, 
ventricular 
arrhythmia and 
cardiac arrest 
Respiratory failure, 
pneumonia 
aspiration 
Aneurysms and 
artery 
dissections 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and  
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Appetite 
decreased, 
Hypocalcaemia  
Insomnia, 
Depression 
Headache, 
paraesthesia, 
dysaesthesia, 
dizziness  
Vision blurred, 
corneal structural 
change 
(including 
corneal deposits 
and corneal 
opacity) 
Prolongation of 
ECG QTc 
interval(*) (**) 
Vascular 
disorders 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Abdominal pain, 
diarrhoea, 
Colitis, dry mouth, 
stomatitis, 
Pancreatitis, 
peritonitis, ileus, 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
nausea, vomiting, 
dyspepsia 
dysphagia, 
constipation, 
gastritis, 
gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage 
Cholelithiasis 
intestinal 
perforation, faecal 
incontinence 
Photosensitivity 
reaction, rash and 
other skin 
rections 
(including acne, 
dry skin, 
dermatitis, 
pruritus), nail 
disorders 
Proteinuria, 
nephrolithiasis 
Asthenia, fatigue, 
pain, oedema 
ECG QTc 
interval 
prolonged  
Palmar-plantar 
erythrodysaesthiesia 
syndrome, alopecia 
Bullous dermatitis 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
(***), erythema 
multiforme  
Dysuria, hematuria, 
renal failure, 
pollakiuria, 
micturition urgency 
Pyrexia 
Increase of serum 
ALT and AST, 
weight decreased 
blood creatinine 
increased  
Chromaturia, anuria 
Impaired healing 
Increased 
haemoglobin,serum 
amylase increased 
* 13.4% vandetanib patients had QTc (Bazett’s) ≥ 500 ms compared with 1.0% placebo patients. QTcF 
prolongation was > 20 ms in over 91% of patients, > 60 ms in 35%, > 100 ms in 1.7%. Eight percent of patients 
had a dose reduction due to QTc prolongation. 
** including two deaths in patients with QTc > 550 ms (one due to sepsis and one due to heart failure) 
*** See section 4.4  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Events such as Torsades de pointes, interstitial lung disease (sometimes fatal) and PRES (RPLS) have 
occurred in patients treated with vandetanib monotherapy. It is expected that these would be 
uncommon adverse reactions in patients receiving vandetanib for MTC. 
Ocular events such as blurred vision are common in patients who received vandetanib for MTC. 
Scheduled slit lamp examinations have revealed corneal opacities (vortex keratopathies) in treated 
patients; however, routine slit lamp examinations are not required for patients receiving vandetanib. 
At various exposure durations, median haemoglobin levels in patients treated with vandetanib were 
increased by 0.5-1.5 g/dl compared to baseline. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric clinical trial data with vandetanib in MTC (see section 5.1) obtained during drug 
development is limited to 16 patients aged 9 years to 17 years with hereditary medullary thyroid 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carcinoma (Study IRUSZACT0098). Whilst the study size is small owing to the rarity of MTC in 
children, it is considered representative of the target population. The safety findings in this study are 
consistent with the safety profile of vandetanib in adult patients with MTC. Long term safety data in 
paediatric patients are not available. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific treatment in the event of overdose with vandetanib and possible symptoms of 
overdose have not been established. An increase in the frequency and severity of some adverse 
reactions, like rash, diarrhoea and hypertension was observed at multiple doses at and above 300 mg in 
healthy volunteer studies and in patients. In addition, the possibility of QTc prolongation and Torsades 
de pointes should be considered. Vandetanib doses higher than 150 mg/m2 have not been used in 
clinical studies in paediatric patients. 
Adverse reactions associated with overdose are to be treated symptomatically; in particular, severe 
diarrhoea must be managed appropriately. In the event of an overdose, further doses must be 
interrupted, and appropriate measures taken to assure that an adverse event has not occurred, i.e. ECG 
within 24 hours to determine QTc prolongation. Adverse reactions associated with overdose may be 
prolonged due to the long half-life of vandetanib (see section 5.2). 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic Group: antineoplastic agent, protein kinase inhibitor, ATC Code: L01EX04 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic effects 
Vandetanib is a potent inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2 also 
known as kinase insert domain containing receptor [KDR]), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
and RET tyrosine kinases. Vandetanib is also a sub-micromolar inhibitor of vascular endothelial 
receptor-3 tyrosine kinase. 
Vandetanib inhibits VEGF-stimulated endothelial cell migration, proliferation, survival and new blood 
vessel formation in in vitro models of angiogenesis. In addition, vandetanib inhibits epidermal growth 
factor (EGF)-stimulated EGF receptor tyrosine kinase in tumour cells and endothelial cells. 
Vandetanib inhibits EGFR-dependent cell proliferation and cell survival in vitro. Vandetanib also 
inhibits both wild type and the majority of mutated, activated forms of RET, and significantly inhibits 
the proliferation of MTC cell lines in vitro. 
In vivo vandetanib administration reduced tumour cell-induced angiogenesis, tumour vessel 
permeability, tumour microvessel density, and inhibited tumour growth of a range of human xenograft 
tumour models in athymic mice. Vandetanib also inhibited the growth of MTC xenograft tumours in 
vivo. 
The precise mechanism of action of vandetanib in locally advanced or metastatic MTC is unknown. 
Clinical efficacy in adults 
Clinical data from MTC  
A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (Study 58) was conducted to demonstrate safety 
and efficacy of vandetanib 300 mg versus placebo. This study included 331 patients with unresectable 
locally advanced or metastatic MTC. Only patients with CTN ≥ 500 pg/mL (conventional units) or 
≥ 146.3 pmol/L (international standard units) were enrolled. Of the patients enrolled in the study 
10 patients on vandetanib and 4 on placebo (4% of all patients) had a World Health Organization 
performance status (WHO PS) score of ≥ 2 and 28 (12.1%) patients on vandetanib and 10 (10.1%) on 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo had cardiac impairment. Cardiac impairment was defined as patients with previous 
cardiovascular abnormality. 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate an improvement in progression-free survival 
(PFS) with vandetanib compared to placebo. The secondary endpoints were evaluation of overall 
objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR) defined as, partial response (PR) or 
complete response (CR) or stable disease (SD) lasting at least 24 weeks, duration of response (DOR), 
time to worsening of pain based on Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) worst pain scale, and overall survival 
(OS). The PFS primary endpoint, ORR and DCR were based on centralized, independent blinded 
review of the imaging data. Biochemical response with vandetanib as compared to placebo as 
measured by CTN and CEA was also assessed as secondary endpoints. 
Patients were treated with vandetanib or placebo until they reached objective disease progression. 
Upon objective disease progression based on the investigator’s assessment, patients were discontinued 
from blinded study treatment and given the option to receive open-label vandetanib. Twenty-eight of 
the 231 patients (12.1%) on vandetanib and 3 of the 99 (3.0%) on placebo discontinued treatment 
because of an adverse event. Fourteen of the 28 patients (50%) who stopped vandetanib for an adverse 
event discontinued without a dose reduction. Five out of 6 patients (83%) with moderate renal failure 
who were treated with vandetanib had a dose reduction to 200 mg for adverse reaction; 1 patient 
required a further reduction to 100 mg. 
The result of the primary analysis of PFS showed a statistically significant improvement in PFS for 
patients randomised to vandetanib compared to placebo (Hazard Ratio (HR) = 0.46; 95% Confidence 
Interval (CI) = 0.31-0.69; p=0.0001). 
The median PFS for patients randomised to vandetanib has not been reached; however, based on 
statistical modelling of data observed up to the 43rd percentile, the median PFS is predicted to be 
30.5 months with 95% confidence interval 25.5 to 36.5 months. The median PFS for patients 
randomised to placebo was 19.3 months. At 12 months, the proportion of patients alive and 
progression-free was 192 (83%) for patients randomised to vandetanib and 63 (63%) for patients 
randomised to placebo. In the vandetanib arm, a total of 73 (32%) patients progressed: 64 (28%) by 
response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST) progression and 9 (4%) by death in the 
absence of progression. The remaining 158 patients (68%) were censored in the analysis of PFS. In the 
placebo arm, a total of 51 (51%) of patients had progressed: 46 (46%) by RECIST progression and 5 
(5%) by death in the absence of progression. The remaining 49 patients (49%) were censored in the 
analysis of PFS. 
Figure 1: Kaplan Meier plot of PFS  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
  
months  
0  
6  
12  
18  
24  
30   36  
n-vandetanib   231  
196  
169  
140  
40  
n-placebo  
100  
71  
57  
45  
13  
1  
0  
0  
0  
____ vandetanib 300 mg, ------ placebo, y-axis=PFS, x-axis=time in months, n-vandetanib=number of patients at 
risk-vandetanib, n-placebo=number of patients at risk-placebo 
HR = 0.46, 95%CI (0.31-0.69), p = 0.0001 
PFS 
Vandetanib 300 mg 
N 
73/231 
(32%) 
Placebo 
51/100 
(51%) 
Median PFS 
Not reached 
(predicted 
30.5 months) 
19.3 months 
HR 
95% CI 
p-value 
0.46 
0.31, 0.69 
0.0001 
Survival status and the median final overall survival (81.6 months in the vandetanib arm and 80.4 
months in the placebo arm) were similar across both treatment arms. There was no statistically 
significant difference in final OS (HR 0.99, 95.002% CI 0.72, 1.38, p=0.9750). Results should be 
interpreted with caution due to the high percentage of patients in the placebo arm switching to open-
label vandetanib (79.0% [79/100] of patients). 
Most (95% of the patients) had metastatic disease. Fourteen patients treated with vandetanib, and 3 
with placebo had unresectable locally advanced disease only. There is limited clinical experience with 
vandetanib in patients with unresectable locally advanced disease and without metastasis.  
Statistically significant advantages were seen for vandetanib for the secondary endpoints of response 
rate, disease control rate, and biochemical response. 
Table 3: Summary of other efficacy findings in study 58 
ORRa 
N 
Response rate  ORb 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Vandetanib 300 mg 
Placebo 
DCRa 
  Vandetanib 300 mg 
Placebo 
CTN Response 
  Vandetanib 300 mg 
Placebo 
104/231 
13/100 
45% 
13% 
5.48 
2.99, 10.79 
< 0.0001 
N 
Response rate  ORb 
95% CI 
p-value 
200/231 
71/100 
N 
160/231 
3/100 
87% 
71% 
2.64 
1.48, 4.69 
0.001 
Response rate  ORb 
95% CI 
p-value 
69% 
3% 
72.9 
26.2, 303.2 
< 0.0001 
CEA Response  
N 
Response rate  ORb 
95% CI 
p-value 
  Vandetanib 300 mg 
Placebo 
119/231 
2/100 
52% 
2% 
52.0 
16.0, 320.3 
< 0.0001 
OVERALL SURVIVAL  
N 
Median OS  
  Vandetanib 300 mg 
116/231 
81.6 months 
HRc 
0.99 
Placebo 
52/100 
80.4 months 
95% CI 
p-value 
0.72, 1.38 
0.9750 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  Overall response rate = complete + partial responses. Disease control rate = response rate + stable disease at 24 weeks. 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis includes patients who received open-label vandetanib before progression according to the 
central read. 
b  OR=Odds Ratio. A value > 1 favors vandetanib. The analysis was performed using a logistic regression model with  
treatment as the only factor. 
c HR= Hazard Ratio. A value <1 favors vandetanib. The analysis was performed using a log rank test with 
treatment as the only factor. 
N=Number of events/number of randomised patients  
A statistically significant advantage was seen for vandetanib for the secondary endpoint of time to 
worsening of pain (derived as a composite endpoint using the worst pain score from BPI and patient 
reported opioid analgesic use) (vandetanib 49%, placebo 57%, HR 0.61, 97.5%CI 0.43-0.87, p< 0.006: 
8 vs. 3 months). There were no statistically significant differences observed for the exploratory 
endpoint of diarrhoea (reported as stool frequency). 
RET mutation status 
RET mutation status reanalysis in Study 58 
In Study 58, RET mutation testing was initially performed by using the polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) based Amplification Refractory Mutation System (ARMS) assay for the M918T mutation, and 
direct sequencing of DNA for mutations in exons 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 16 (site of M918T mutation) 
on all sporadic patients where DNA was available (297/298). For reanalysis of samples lacking 
M918T mutation, the RET sequences were enriched using a custom Agilent SureSelect reagent and 
sequenced on an Illumina sequencer. Data processing and automated calling of RET variants were 
carried out using the Broad Genome Analysis ToolKit (GATK) pipeline with manual curation of any 
difficult cases using Broad Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV). 
Initially, 79 patients had no M918T mutation identified. Of these 79 patients, 69 had enough tissue 
sample to allow a post-hoc reanalysis of RET mutation status based on new available assays. Most 
patients were reclassified as RET mutant (52/69) and 17/69 patients had no RET mutation (M918T or 
other) detected (11 with vandetanib and 6 with a placebo). Patients reclassified as RET mutant (N = 
52) were pooled with those 187 patients initially identified as RET mutant, leading to a total number 
of 239 RET mutant patients (172 treated with vandetanib and 67 treated with a placebo). Results were 
based on a blinded central review of imaging.  
Table 4: Efficacy end-points in RET mutant patients  
Efficacy end-point (Vandetanib vs placebo) 
Patients with RET mutation  
(n=239)  
Objective response rate 
51.7% vs 14.9% 
Efficacy endpoint 
PFS HR (95% confidence interval)  
0.46 (0.29, 0.74)  
2-year PFS rate 
55.7% vs 40.1% 
Clinical efficacy in paediatric patients: 
A Phase I/II single-center open-label, single-arm study (Study IRUSZACT0098) assessed the activity 
of vandetanib in 16 patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic hereditary MTC. 
Characteristics of the patients at study entry were the following: mean age 14.2 years (range 9-17 
years), 50% female, 50% male, 93.8% White, 26.7% Hispanic and 6.3% were Black. Most patients 
(81.3%) had undergone partial or total thyroidectomy prior to study entry. Starting vandetanib dose 
was 100mg/m2/day for all patients except for one who started at 150mg/m2/day. After having well 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
tolerated the first 1 or 2 cycles of therapy (1 cycle = 28 days), the remaining patients continued on 100 
mg/m2 of treatment. The primary efficacy outcome was ORR according to RECIST v 1.0. The 
objective response rate observed was 43.8%, all of which were partial responses. 31.3% of patients 
had stable disease for at least 8 weeks. Disease Control Rate including best response or Stable Disease 
>24 weeks was 75.0%. There is no experience with Caprelsa in patients 5-8 years of age in this study. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following oral administration of vandetanib absorption is slow with peak plasma concentrations 
typically achieved at a median of 6 hours, range 4-10 hours, after dosing. Vandetanib accumulates 
approximately 8-fold on multiple dosing with steady state achieved from approximately 2 months. 
Distribution 
Vandetanib binds to human serum albumin and alpha-1-acid-glycoprotein with in vitro protein binding 
being approximately 90%. In ex vivo plasma samples from colorectal cancer patients at steady state 
exposure after 300 mg once daily, the mean percentage protein binding was 93.7% (range 92.2 to 
95.7%). The pharmacokinetics of vandetanib at the 300 mg dose in MTC patients are characterised by 
a volume of distribution of approximately 7450 l.  
Biotransformation 
Following oral dosing of 14C- vandetanib, unchanged vandetanib and metabolites vandetanib N-oxide 
and N-desmethyl vandetanib were detected in plasma, urine and feces. A glucuronide conjugate was 
seen as a minor metabolite in excreta only. N-desmethyl-vandetanib is primarily produced by 
CYP3A4, and vandetanib-N-oxide by flavin-containing monooxygenase enzymes (FM01 and FMO3). 
N-desmethyl-vandetanib and vandetanib-N-oxide circulate at concentrations of approximately 11% 
and 1.4% of those of vandetanib. 
Elimination 
The pharmacokinetics of vandetanib at the 300 mg dose in MTC patients are characterised by a 
clearance of approximately 13.2 l/h. and plasma half-life of approximately 19 days. Within a 21 day 
collection period after a single dose of 14C-vandetanib, approximately 69% was recovered with 44% in 
faeces and 25% in urine. Excretion of the dose was slow and further excretion beyond 21 days would 
be expected based on the plasma half-life. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
A single dose pharmacokinetic study in volunteers indicated that exposure to vandetanib is enhanced 
(up to 1.5, 1.6 and 2-fold) in mild, moderate and severe renal impaired subjects respectively compared 
to subjects with normal renal function (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
Hepatic impairment 
A single dose pharmacokinetic study in volunteers indicated that hepatic impairment did not affect 
exposure to vandetanib. There is limited data in patients with hepatic impairment (serum bilirubin 
greater than 1.5 times upper limit of normal (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Food effect 
Exposure to vandetanib is not affected by food. 
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of vandetanib in paediatrics MTC patients aged 9-17 years were 
similar to those in adults. Vandetanib exposure in children between 5-8 years old with glioma-related 
indications was comparable to MTC patients aged 9-18 years. Dosing at 100mg/m2/day of the 
indicated posology (function of BSA) in paediatrics delivers similar exposure to that achieved in 
adults at 300 mg daily. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Vandetanib has shown no mutagenic or clastogenic potential. 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies of up to 9 months duration, effects included emesis, body weight loss 
and diarrhoea in dogs and physeal dysplasia in young dogs and rats with open growth plates. In rats, 
effects on teeth, kidney and skin were noted. These findings occurred at clinically-relevant plasma 
concentrations, were largely reversible within 4 weeks of cessation of dosing and were attributable to 
inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) or EGFR.  
Effects noted in other studies included inhibition of human ether-à-go-go related gene (hERG) current 
and prolongation of QTc interval in dogs. Elevation of systolic and diastolic blood pressure was 
observed in rats and dogs. In mice, vandetanib was shown to delay but not prevent wound healing. 
Vandetanib also showed evidence of phototoxic potential in an in vitro cytotoxicity assay. In an 
animal model of wound-healing, mice dosed with vandetanib had reduced skin-breaking strength 
compared with controls. This suggests that vandetanib slows but does not prevent wound healing. The 
appropriate interval between discontinuation of vandetanib and subsequent elective surgery required to 
avoid the risks of impaired wound healing has not been determined. In clinical studies, a small number 
of patients had surgery while receiving vandetanib and there were no reported wound healing 
complications. 
Reproductive toxicology 
Vandetanib had no effect on fertility in male rats. In a female fertility study, there was a trend towards 
increased oestrus cycle irregularity, a slight reduction in pregnancy incidence and increase in 
implantation loss. In a repeat-dose toxicity study in rats, there was a decrease in the number of 
corpora lutea in the ovaries of rats given vandetanib for 1 month. 
In rats, embryofoetal toxicity was evident as foetal loss, delayed foetal development, heart vessel 
abnormalities and precocious ossification of some skull bones. In a rat pre- and post-natal 
development study, at doses producing maternal toxicity during gestation and/or lactation, vandetanib 
increased pre-birth loss and reduced post-natal pup growth. Vandetanib was excreted into milk in rat 
and found in plasma of pups following dosing to lactating rats. 
Carcinogenicity 
Vandetanib has shown no carcinogenic potential effect in a 6 month carcinogenicity study in rasH2 
transgenic mice. A 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats was impaired by low survival in the high dose 
female group and limited exposure of the animals to vandetanib; however, no carcinogenic effects 
were observed in the remaining animals.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Crospovidone (type A) 
Povidone (K 29-32) 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Hypromellose 
Macrogol (300) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
PVC/ PVDC/Alu blisters, sealed with aluminium foil, each containing 30 film-coated tablets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/749/001 
EU/1/11/749/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 February 2012 
Date of latest renewal: 15 November 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Genzyme Ireland Ltd. 
IDA Industrial Park, 
Old Kilmeaden Road, 
Waterford  
Ireland 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 avenue Gustave Eiffel, 
37100 Tours, 
France 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of CAPRELSA in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where CAPRELSA is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals (HCPs) and patients / caregivers who are expected to prescribe, dispense and use 
CAPRELSA have access to/are provided with an educational package containing: 
HCPs 
•  The summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC); 
•  The educational material, including: 
o 
Information about the risks associated with CAPRELSA: 
-  QTc prolongation and Torsades de pointes 
-  Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES); 
-  Teeth and bone development abnormalities in pediatric patients 
-  Medication errors in the pediatric population 
o  The Physicians’ dosing and monitoring guide for paediatric patients; 
•  The dosing and monitoring guide for paediatric patients and patient’s caregivers; 
•  The Patient Leaflet; 
•  The Patient Alert Card. 
Patients / caregivers 
•  The dosing and monitoring guide for paediatric patients and patient’s caregivers; 
•  The Patient Leaflet; 
•  The Patient Alert Card. 
The HCPs educational materials should include the following key elements: 
QTc prolongation and Torsades de pointes 
•  CAPRELSA prolongs the QTc interval and can cause Torsades de pointes and sudden death  
•  CAPRELSA treatment must not be started in patients: 
o  Whose ECG QTc interval is greater than 480 msec; 
o  Who have congenital long QTc syndrome; 
o  Who have a history of Torsades de pointes unless all risk factors that contributed to 
Torsades de pointes have been corrected; 
•  The need for an ECG, and serum levels of potassium, calcium and magnesium and thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH) and the times and situations when it should be performed; 
•  Patients who develop a single value of corrected ECG QTc interval of at least 500 msec should 
stop taking CAPRELSA. Dosing can be resumed at a reduced dose after return of the ECG QTc 
interval to pre-treatment status has been confirmed and correction of possible electrolyte 
imbalance has been made; 
•  If QTc increases markedly but stays below 500 msec, the advice of a cardiologist should be 
sought; 
•  Details of medicinal products where the co-administration of CAPRELSA is either 
contraindicated or not recommended; 
•  The role and use of the Patient Alert Card. 
Posterior  reversible  encephalopathy  syndrome  (PRES)  also  known  as  reversible  posterior 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) 
•  PRES should be considered in any patient presenting with seizures, headache, visual 
disturbances, confusion or altered mental function. A brain MRI should be performed in any 
patient presenting with seizures, confusion or altered mental status; 
•  The need to counsel patients about the risk of prolonged QTc and PRES and inform them of 
what symptoms and signs to be aware of and the actions to take; 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The role and use of the Patient Alert Card. 
Teeth and bone development abnormalities in pediatric patients 
•  Vandetanib was found not to impair linear growth in clinical trials conducted in children and 
adolescents; 
•  Vandetanib has demonstrated adverse effect on growing tissue that relies on vascularization 
such as teeth and growth plates in non-clinical studies; 
•  The need to closely monitor teeth and bone abnormalities in the paediatric population; 
Medication errors in the paediatric population 
The  Physicians’  dosing  and  monitoring  guide  for  paediatric  patients  should  contain  the 
following key elements: 
•  How CAPRELSA dose for infants and adolescents is calculated; 
•  The posology regimens according to patient’s body surface area (BSA), including a visual 
representation of the two-week posology regimen per BSA; 
•  How CAPRELSA is used / administered; 
•  Instructions on how to use the dosing and monitoring guide and the daily tracker for paediatric 
patients and caregivers. 
The  dosing  and  monitoring  guide  for  patients  and  patient’s  caregivers  should  contain  the 
following key elements: 
•  What CAPRELSA is, what it treats, how it is administered; 
•  How CAPRELSA dose is calculated; 
•  What are the side effects associated with CAPRELSA and which monitoring is requested; 
•  How to use the daily tracker table (including examples of a completed daily tracker); 
•  The general daily tracker for 14 days and blank copies of the daily tracker. 
The Patient Alert Card should include the following key elements: 
• 
Information about the risks of QTc prolongation and Torsades de pointes, and Posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES); 
•  Signs or symptoms of the safety concerns and when to seek attention from a HCP; 
•  Not to stop taking CAPRELSA, or change the dose, without consulting the prescriber; 
•  Contact details of the CAPRELSA prescriber. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Caprelsa 100 mg film-coated tablets 
vandetanib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each tablet contains 100 mg vandetanib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Do not store above 30°C.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V.,  
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/749/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Caprelsa 100 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Caprelsa 100 mg tablets 
vandetanib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Caprelsa 300 mg film-coated tablets 
vandetanib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each tablet contains 300 mg vandetanib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Do not store above 30°C.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V.,  
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/749/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Caprelsa 300 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Caprelsa 300 mg tablets 
vandetanib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
OTHER  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Caprelsa 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Caprelsa 300 mg film-coated tablets 
vandetanib 
In addition to this leaflet you will be given the Patient Alert Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to know before you are given Caprelsa and during treatment with Caprelsa. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet and the patient alert card. You may need to read it again. 
It is important that you keep the Alert Card with you during treatment.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What Caprelsa is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Caprelsa 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Caprelsa 
Possible side effects 
How to store Caprelsa 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Caprelsa is and what it is used for 
Caprelsa is a treatment for adults and children aged 5 years and above with: 
Type of medullary thyroid cancer that is called Rearranged during Transfection (RET) mutant and 
which cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body. 
Caprelsa works by slowing down the growth of new blood vessels in tumours (cancers). This cuts off 
the supply of food and oxygen to the tumour. Caprelsa may also act directly on cancer cells to kill 
them or slow down their growth. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Caprelsa 
Do not take Caprelsa:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to vandetanib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
Section 6). 
if you have a heart problem that you were born with called ‘congenital long QTc syndrome’. 
This is seen on an electrocardiogram (ECG). 
if you are breast-feeding. 
if you are taking any of the following medicines: arsenic, cisapride (used to treat heartburn), 
erythromycin intravenous and moxifloxacin (used to treat infection), toremifene (used to treat 
breast cancer), mizolastine (used to treat allergies), Class IA and III antiarrhythmics (used to 
control heart rhythm). 
Do not take Caprelsa if any of the above applies to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Caprelsa:  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you are sensitive to the sun. Some people who are taking Caprelsa become more sensitive to 
the sun. This can cause sunburn. While you are taking Caprelsa, protect yourself when you go 
outside by always using sunscreen and wearing clothes to avoid exposure to the sun.  
If you have high blood pressure. 
If you have or have had an aneurysm (enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall) or a 
tear in a blood vessel wall. 
If you need to have a surgical procedure. Your doctor may consider stopping Caprelsa if you 
will be undergoing a major surgical procedure as Caprelsa may affect wound healing. Caprelsa 
may be restarted once adequate wound healing is established. 
If you have any kidney problems. 
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) / toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (TEN), have been reported in association with vandetanib treatment. Stop using 
Caprelsa and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the symptoms related to these 
serious skin reactions described in section 4. 
Determination of RET status of your cancer will be needed, before initiating Caprelsa treatment. 
Monitoring of your blood and your heart: 
Your doctor or nurse should perform tests to check the levels of your blood potassium, calcium, 
magnesium, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) as well as the electrical activity of your heart 
with a test called an electrocardiogram (ECG). You should have these tests:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Before starting Caprelsa  
Regularly during Caprelsa treatment  
1, 3 and 6 weeks after starting Caprelsa  
12 weeks after starting Caprelsa  
Every 3 months thereafter 
If your doctor or pharmacist changes your dose of Caprelsa 
If you start taking medicines that affect your heart 
As instructed by your doctor or pharmacist 
Children  
Caprelsa should not be given to children below 5 years of age. 
Other medicines and Caprelsa 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines that you buy without a prescription and herbal medicines. This is 
because Caprelsa can affect the way some medicines work and some medicines can have an effect on 
Caprelsa. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines: 
• 
itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin, rifampicin and moxifloxacin (medicines 
used to treat infections) 
carbamazepine and phenobarbital (used to control seizures) 
ondansetron (used to treat nausea and vomiting) 
cisapride (used to treat heart burn), pimozide (used to treat uncontrolled repeated movements of 
the body and verbal outbursts) and halofantrine and lumefantrine (used to treat malaria)  
methadone (used to treat addiction), haloperidol, chlorpromazine, sulpiride, amisulpride, and 
zuclopenthixol, (used to treat mental illness)  
pentamidine (used to treat infection) 
vitamin K antagonists and dabigatran often referred to as ‘blood thinners’ 
cyclosporine and tacrolimus (used to treat transplant rejection), digoxin (used to treat irregular 
heart rate), and metformin (used to control your blood sugar) 
proton pump inhibitors (used to treat heartburn) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will also find this information in the Patient Alert Card you have been given by your doctor. It is 
important that you keep this Alert Card and show it to your partner or caregivers.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. This is because Caprelsa may harm an unborn 
child. Your doctor will discuss with you the benefits and risks of taking Caprelsa during this time.  
• 
If you may become pregnant you must use effective contraception when you are taking Caprelsa 
and for at least four months after the last dose of Caprelsa. 
You must not breast-feed during treatment with Caprelsa for the safety of your baby. 
Driving and using machines 
Use caution before driving or using machines. Keep in mind Caprelsa may make you feel tired, weak, 
or cause blurred vision. 
3.  How to take Caprelsa 
Use in adults 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
• 
• 
• 
The recommended dose is 300 mg each day. 
Take Caprelsa about the same time each day. 
Caprelsa may be taken with or without food. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The doctor will tell you how many tablets of Caprelsa to give to your child. The amount of Caprelsa 
given will depend on your child’s body weight and height. The total daily dose in children must not 
exceed 300 mg. The treatment may either be given to your child as a once-daily dose, an every other 
day dosing or a repeating 7-day schedule as indicated in the dosing guide that has been given to you 
by your doctor. It is important that you keep this dosing guide and show it to your caregiver. 
If you have trouble swallowing the tablet  
If you have trouble swallowing the tablet, you can mix it with water as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To make sure there is no medicine left, refill the glass halfway with water and drink it. 
Take half a glass of still (non-carbonated) water. Only use water, do not use any other liquids. 
Put the tablet into the water. 
Stir the tablet until it has dispersed into the water. This may take about 10 minutes. 
Then drink it straight away. 
If you get side effects  
If you get side effects always tell your doctor. Your doctor may tell you to take Caprelsa at a lower or 
increased dose (such as two 100 mg tablets or one 100 mg tablet). Your doctor may also prescribe 
other medicines to help control your side effects. The side effects of Caprelsa are listed in Section 4. 
If you take more Caprelsa than you should 
If you take more Caprelsa than you have been prescribed, talk to a doctor or go to a hospital straight 
away. 
If you forget to take Caprelsa 
What to do if you forget to take a tablet depends on how long it is until your next dose. 
• 
If it is 12 hours or more until your next dose: Take the missed tablet as soon as you 
remember. Then take the next dose at the normal time. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If it is less than 12 hours until your next dose: Skip the missed dose. Then take the next dose 
at the normal time. 
Do not take a double dose (two doses at the same time) to make up for a forgotten tablet. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. If you get 
side effects, your doctor may tell you to take Caprelsa at a lower dose. Your doctor may also prescribe 
other medicines to help control your side effects. 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the following side effects – you may need 
urgent medical treatment: 
• 
Fainting, dizziness or heart rhythm changes. These may be signs of a change in the electrical 
activitiy of your heart. They are seen in 8% of people taking Caprelsa for medullary thyroid 
cancer. Your doctor may recommend you take Caprelsa at a lower dose or stop taking Caprelsa. 
Caprelsa has uncommonly been associated with life-threatening changes in heart rhythm. 
Stop using Caprelsa and seek medical attention immediately if you notice any of the following 
symptoms: reddish non-elevated, target-like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central 
blisters, skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes. These serious skin rashes 
can be preceded by fever and flu-like symptoms (Stevens-Johnson-syndrome, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis). 
Severe diarrhoea. 
Serious breathlessness, or sudden worsening breathlessness, possibly with a cough or a high 
temperature (fever). This may mean that you have an inflammation of the lungs called 
‘interstitial lung disease’. This is uncommon (affects less than 1 in 100 people) but can be 
life-threatening. 
Seizures, headache, confusion or finding it difficult to concentrate. These may be signs of a 
condition called RPLS (Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome). These usually 
go away when Caprelsa is stopped. RPLS is uncommon (affects less than 1 in 100 people). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor straight away if you notice any of the side effects above.  
Other side effects include: 
Very common (affects more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Diarrhoea. Your doctor may prescribe a medicine to treat this. If it gets severe, tell your doctor 
straight away. 
Abdominal pain. 
Skin rash or acne. 
Depression. 
Tiredness. 
Feeling sick (nausea). 
Upset stomach (dyspepsia). 
Nail disorders. 
Being sick (vomiting). 
Loss of appetite (anorexia). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Weakness (asthenia). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
High blood pressure.Your doctor may prescribe a medicine to treat this. 
Headache. 
Fatigue. 
Trouble sleeping (insomnia). 
Inflammation of the nasal passages. 
Inflammation of the main air passages to the lungs. 
Upper respiratory tract infections. 
Urinary tract infections. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Numbness or tingling of the skin. 
Abnormal sensation of the skin. 
Dizziness. 
Pain. 
Swelling caused by excess fluid (oedema). 
Stones or calcium deposits in the urinary tract (nephrolithiasis). 
Blurred vision, including mild changes in the eye which can lead to blurred vision (corneal 
opacity). 
Sensitivity of the skin to sunlight. While you are taking Caprelsa, protect yourself when you go 
outside by always using sun cream and wearing clothes to avoid exposure to the sun. 
Dehydration. 
Severe high blood pressure. 
Common (affects less than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
•  Weight loss. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Stroke or other conditions where the brain may not get enough blood. 
A type of rash that affects the hands and feet (hand foot syndrome). 
Sore mouth (stomatitis). 
Dry mouth. 
Pneumonia. 
Toxins in the blood as a complication of infection. 
Flu. 
Inflammation of the urinary bladder. 
Inflammation of the sinuses. 
Inflammation of the voice box (larynx). 
Inflammation of a follicle, especially a hair follicle. 
Boil. 
Fungal infection. 
Kidney infection. 
Loss of body fluid (dehydration). 
Anxiety. 
Tremor. 
Drowsiness. 
Fainting. 
Feeling unsteady. 
Increased pressure in the eye (glaucoma). 
Coughing up of blood. 
Inflammation of the lung tissue. 
Difficulty swallowing. 
Constipation. 
Inflammation of the lining of the stomach (gastritis). 
Gastrointestinal bleeding.  
Gallstones (cholelithiasis). 
Painful urination. 
Kidney failure. 
Frequent urination. 
Urgent desire to urinate. 
Fever. 
Nose bleed (epistaxis). 
Dry eye. 
An irritation of the eyes (conjunctivitis). 
Visual impairment. 
Halo vision. 
Seeing flashes of light (photopsia). 
36 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Disorder of the cornea of the eye (keratopathy). 
A type of diarrhoea (colitis). 
Loss of hair from the head or body (alopecia). 
Changes in taste of foods (dysgeusia). 
Uncommon (affects less than 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Heart failure. 
Inflammation of the appendix (appendicitis). 
Bacterial infection. 
Inflammation of the diverticula (small bulging pouches that can form in your digestive system).  
Bacterial skin infection. 
Abdominal wall abscess. 
Malnutrition. 
Involuntary muscle contraction (convulsions). 
Rapidly alternating muscular contraction and relaxation (clonus). 
Swelling of the brain.  
Clouding of the lens of the eye. 
Heart rate and rhythm disorders. 
Loss of heart function. 
Failure of the lungs to function properly. 
Pneumonia that happens when you breathe in foreign matter into your lungs. 
Bowel obstruction. 
Hole in your bowel. 
Inability to control your bowel movements. 
Abnormal color of urine. 
Lack of urine. 
Inability to heal properly. 
Inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). 
Blistering of skin (bullous dermatitis). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
An enlargement and weakening of a blood vessel wall or a tear in a blood vessel wall 
(aneurysms and artery dissections). 
Reddish non-elevated, target like or circular patches on the trunk, often with central blisters, 
skin peeling, ulcers of mouth, throat, nose, genitals and eyes, which can be preceded by fever 
and flu like symptoms. These serious skin rashes can be potentially life threatening (Stevens-
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis). 
A skin reaction that causes red spots or patches on the skin, that may look like a target or “bulls-
eye” with a dark red centre surrounded by paler red rings (erythema multiforme). 
• 
• 
The following side effects may be shown in tests that may be carried out by your doctor: 
• 
• 
Protein or blood in your urine (shown in a urine test). 
Heart rhythm changes (shown in an ECG). Your doctor may tell you to stop taking Caprelsa or 
take Caprelsa at a lower dose. 
Abnormalities in your liver or pancreas (shown in blood tests). These do not usually cause 
symptoms but your doctor may want to monitor them. 
Decreased levels of calcium in your blood. Your doctor may need to prescribe or change your 
thyroid hormone treatment. 
Decreased levels of potassium in your blood. 
Increased levels of calcium in your blood. 
Increased levels of glucose in your blood. 
Decreased levels of sodium in your blood. 
Decrease in thyroid function.  
Increased levels of red cells in your blood. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
37 
 
 
 
 
If any of the side effects gets serious, or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, please 
tell your doctor or pharmacist straight away.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Caprelsa 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and the carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Do not throw away medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Caprelsa contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is vandetanib. Each tablet contains 100 or 300 mg of vandetanib. 
The other ingredients are calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, 
crospovidone (type A), povidone (K29-32), magnesium stearate, hypromellose, macrogol and 
titanium dioxide (E171). 
What Caprelsa looks like and contents of the pack 
Caprelsa 100 mg is a white round film-coated tablet with “Z100” imprinted on one side. 
Caprelsa 300 mg is a white oval-shaped film-coated tablet with “Z300” imprinted on one side. 
Caprelsa comes in blister packs of 30 tablets. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Sanofi B.V.  
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Genzyme Ireland Ltd., IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, 30-36 avenue Gustave Eiffel, 37100 Tours, France 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 710 54 00 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD  
Tел: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 52 52 010 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 21 131 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ 
Tel. +372 640 10 30 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel:  +39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31  20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 - 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.  
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: + 800 536 389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel.:  +421 2 208 33 600 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0) 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA 
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel. +370 5 236 91 40 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
