Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Carbaglu (Carglumic acid) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Carbaglu.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of 
Carbaglu,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about Carbaglu’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Carbaglu’s  product 
professionals and patients on how Carbaglu should be used.  
information  gives  essential 
information 
to  healthcare 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Carbaglu  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report. Important new 
concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Carbaglu’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Carbaglu  is  authorised  for  hyperammonaemia  due  to  N-acetylglutamate  synthase 
primary  deficiency,  isovaleric  acidaemia,  methylmalonic  acidaemia  and  propionic 
acidaemia (see product information for the full indication). It contains carglumic acid 
as the active substance and it is given by oral administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Carbaglu’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Carbaglu’s  European  Public  Assessment  Report,  including  in  its  plain-language 
summary,  available  on  the  European  Medicines  Agency  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/carbaglu. 
II. 
Risks  Associated  with  the  Medicine  and  Activities  to  Minimise  or  Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Carbaglu, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Carbaglu’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, 
in the product information addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
• 
•  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly. 
•  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously  and  regularly  analysed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report 
assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Carbaglu is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Carbaglu are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Carbaglu. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is 
possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of 
the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risk 
Important missing information 
None  
None  
Use in pregnant women 
Patients with cardiac diseases/renal and hepatic impairment 
II.B         Summary of important risks 
Summaries of the important risks and missing information for Carbaglu are provided 
in the following tables. 
Missing information of use in pregnant women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6. 
Package Leaftlet (PL) section 2. 
Section 4.6  of  the  SmPC  for  Carbaglu  notes  that  animal  studies  have 
revealed  minimal  developmental  toxicity,  and  that  caution  should  be 
exercised when prescribing to pregnant women.  
Section 2 of the PL for Carbaglu notes that patients should consult their 
doctor  or  pharmacist  for  advice  before  taking  the  medicine  in  case  of 
pregnancy,  pregnancy  suspicion  or  if  they  are  planning  to  become 
pregnant. 
Legal status: Subject to restricted medical prescription. Treatment should 
be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of metabolic 
disorders. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Study 1604-2 and Study 1604-3 (US FDA post approval requirements) 
Additional 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information of patients with cardiac diseases/renal and hepatic impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Sections 4.2 and 4.4 
PL section 2 and 3. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC for Carbaglu note that caution is advised 
when administering Carbaglu to patients with impaired renal function and 
that  the  dose  of  Carbaglu  must  be  reduced  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment, respectively. Section 4.2 of the SmPC for Carbaglu contains 
guidance on dose adjustments for patients with renal impairment.  
Section 3 of the PL advises patients to notify their doctor in case of renal 
impairment as the daily dose should be reduced.   
Section 4.4 of the of the SmPC for Carbaglu notes that limited data on the 
safety  of  Carbaglu  are  available.  Therefore,  Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC 
notes that systematic surveillance of liver, renal and cardiac functions, as 
well as haematological parameters, is recommended.  
Section  2  of  the  PL  notes  that  regular  liver,  kidneys,  heart  and  blood 
monitoring may be planned by the patients’ doctors. 
Legal status: Subject to restricted medical prescription. Treatment should 
be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of metabolic 
disorders. 
Additional 
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Study 1604-2 (US FDA post approval requirement). 
SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are being conducted as post-marketing requirements from the Food and 
Drug Administration: 
Study 1604-2  
Purpose  of  the  study:  To  obtain  long-term  clinical  safety  information  in  patients  with 
N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency treated with Carbaglu. 
Study 1604-3  
Purpose of the study: To study of the effects of Carbaglu on pregnancy and fetal outcomes. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
