26 April 2018 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Carmustine Obvius 
International non-proprietary name: carmustine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004326/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Carmustine Obvius 
Applicant: 
Obvius Investment B.V 
De Cuserstraat 93 
1081 CN  Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
Active substance: 
CARMUSTINE 
International non-proprietary name: 
carmustine 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
alkylating agents, nitrosoureas 
(ATC Code): 
(L01AD01) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Carmustine is effective in the following 
malignant neoplasms as a single agent or in 
combination with other antineoplastic agents 
and/or other therapeutic measures 
(radiotherapy, surgery): 
•  Brain tumours (glioblastoma, brain- 
stem gliomas, medulloblastoma, 
astrocytoma and ependymoma), brain 
metastases 
•  Secondary therapy in non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma and Hodgkin’s disease 
Pharmaceutical forms: 
Powder and solvent for concentrate for solution 
for infusion 
Strength: 
100 mg 
Route of administration: 
Intravenous use 
Packaging: 
Powder: vial (glass) Solvent: vial (glass) 
Package sizes: 
1 vial + 1 vial 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 2/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1.  Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2.  Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1.  Introduction...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2.  Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 11 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 28 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects....................... 28 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 28 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 28 
2.3.1.  Introduction.................................................................................................... 28 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 28 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 29 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 30 
2.4.  Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 30 
2.4.1.  Introduction.................................................................................................... 30 
2.4.2.  Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 43 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 43 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 44 
2.5.  Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 44 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 46 
2.7.  Product information ............................................................................................ 46 
2.7.1.  User consultation............................................................................................. 46 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 46 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 47 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 3/49 
 
List of abbreviations 
ASCT 
autologous stem cell transplantation 
BCNU 
carmustine 
BEAM 
carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan 
CBV 
cyclophosphamide, carmustine, and etoposide 
CHOP 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone 
CR 
complete response 
DLCL 
Diffuse large cell lymphoma 
EFS 
GBM 
HDC 
NHL 
NRM 
OS 
event-free survival 
glioblastoma multiforme 
high-dose chemotherapy 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 
non-relapse mortality 
overall survival 
O6BG 
O6-benzylguanine 
PD 
PFS 
PR 
SD 
progressive disease 
progression-free survival 
partial response 
Stable disease 
SmPC 
Summary of Product characteristics 
TMZ 
TTP 
temozolomide 
time to progression 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 4/49 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Obvius Investment B.V submitted on 6 May 2016 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Carmustine Obvius, through the centralised procedure under 
Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed 
upon by the EMA/CHMP on 19 November 2015. The eligibility to the centralised procedure under Article 
3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was based on demonstration of interest of patients at Community 
level. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in a Member State on the basis of a complete 
dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication. 
Carmustine Obvius is indicated as palliative therapy as a single agent or in established combination therapy 
with other approved chemotherapeutic agents in the following: 
•  Brain tumors - glioblastoma, medulloblastoma, astrocytoma and metastatic brain 
tumors. 
•  Hodgkin’s disease - as secondary therapy in combination with other approved drugs in patientswho 
relapse while being treated with primary therapy, or who fail to respond to primary therapy. 
•  Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas - as secondary therapy in combination with other approved drugs in patients 
who relapse while being treated with primary therapy, or who fail to respond to primary therapy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data with the 
reference medicinal product Carmubris instead of non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Carmubris, 100 mg, powder and solvent for solution for 
infusion 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Emcure Pharma UK Ltd. 
•  Date of authorisation: 31 July 1996 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: 
−  Member State (EEA) : Austria 
− 
National procedure 
•  Marketing authorisation number: 1-21762 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 5/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product: 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: 
• 
•  Carmubris, 100 mg, powder and solvent for solution for infusion 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Emcure Pharma UK Ltd. 
•  Date of authorisation: 31 July 1996 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by: 
−  Member State (EEA): Austria 
− 
National procedure 
•  Marketing authorisation number: 1-21762 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur:  Juris Pokrotnieks 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 6 May 2016. 
The procedure started on 16 June 2016. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 September 2016. 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 16 September 
2016. 
•  During the meeting on 13 October 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 May 2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 27 June 2017. 
•  During the PRAC meeting on 6 July 2017, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice 
to CHMP. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 6/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 20 July 2017, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent 
to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 18 
September 2017. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Outstanding 
Issues to all CHMP members on 27 September 2017. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 12 October 2017, the CHMP agreed on a second list of outstanding issues 
to be sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated second List of Outstanding Issueson 
19 January 2018. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 8 February 2018. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 22 February 2018, the CHMP agreed on a third list of outstanding issues to 
be sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated second List of Outstanding Issues on 
27 March 2018. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second Listof 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 11 April 2018. 
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity with Iclusig, Xaluprine, Imbruvica, Revlimid, Torisel , Ledaga, 
Venclyxto, Adcetris , Gazyvaro, Arzerra, Blincyto and Besponsa on 26th April 2018. 
•  During the meeting on 26 April 2018, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Carmustine Obvius. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Carmustine is a cell-cycle phase nonspecific antineoplastic agent belonging to the nitrosourea group of 
compounds (bischlo-roethyl nitrosourea), which exerts tumour cytotoxicity via multiple mechanisms. As an 
alkylating agent, it can alkylate reactive sites on nucleoproteins, thus interfering with DNA and RNA 
synthesis and DNA repair. It is able to form interstrand crosslinks in DNA, which prevents DNA replication 
and transcription. Carmustine undergoes spontaneous nonenzymatic decomposition under physiological 
conditions to release reactive intermediates with alkylating and carbamoylating activities, which are thought 
to be responsible for the antineoplastic and cytotoxic activities of carmustine. 
The pharmaceutical form and mode of administration of the proposed product is the same as reference 
product – powder and solvent for solution for infusion. The active substance of Carmustine Obvius 100 mg, 
powder and solvent for solution for infusion is the same as for reference product – carmustine. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 7/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carmustine is an alkylating agent used as an antineoplastic agent. It is considered that the antineoplastic 
and toxic activities of Carmustine Obvius may be due to metabolites. 
Carmustine has been used for more than 40 years and has a well-defined place in different oncological 
treatment protocols, such as in BEAM (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan) and transplantation of 
haemopoietic stem cells in patients with chemosensitive first relapse of Hodgkin’s disease irrespective of 
length of initial remission (Schmitz et al 2002). 
This  is  an  abridged  marketing  authorisation  application  for  CARMUSTINE  100  mg  -Powder  and  solvent  for 
concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion,  which  are  essentially  similar  to  the  reference  product  Carmubris- 
Trockenstechampull mit Lösungsmittel, 100 mg (Emcure Pharma UK, Ltd., UK) and is therefore filed under 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC (i.e. a generic application). 
Carmustine has been on the European markets since 15 August 1998, but has been on discontinuation in 
the EU since February 2014 due to a number of reasons mostly related to complexities in the manufacturing 
of the active substance. The applicant Obvius claimed eligibility to the centralised procedure on the basis 
that the shortage and impact on patients would be addressed, thus fulfilling patients’ needs. 
The originator Carmubris is approved in the following indications: 
Carmustine is effective in the following malignant neoplasms as a single agent or in combination with other 
antineoplastic agents and/or other therapeutic measures (radiotherapy, surgery): 
-  Brain tumors - glioblastoma, Brain-stem gliomas, medulloblastoma, astrocytoma, 
ependymoblastomas and brain metastases 
-  Second line treatment for NHL and Hodgkin’s disease 
-  Tumours of the gastrointestinal system 
-  Malignant melanoma in combination with other effective ani-neoplastic medicinal products 
-  multiple myeloma (in combination with a glucocorticoid such as prednisone), 
The generic product Carmustine Obvius has applied for part of the originator’s indications. 
Carmustine Obvius is indicated is indicated in adults as part of established combination therapy with other 
approved chemotherapeutic agents, in the following: 
-  Brain tumors - glioblastoma, Brain-stem gliomas, medulloblastoma, astrocytoma and 
Ependymoblastomas 
-  Second line treatment for NHL and Hodgkin’s disease 
The strength and pack size (100mg carmustine powder and 3ml solvent, 1 vial each) are consistent with the 
dosage regimen and duration of use. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 8/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 
100 mg of carmustine as the active substance. 
There are no other ingredients in the lyophilised powder apart from the active substance. The solvent used 
for the reconstitution is ethanol anhydrous and does not contain any other ingredients either. 
The product is available in a pack containing one vial with the powder (for concentrate for solution for 
infusion) and one ampoule with solvent. The powder is contained in a 50 ml brown type I hydrolytic glass 
vial with light grey 20 mm bromobutyl rubber stopper and sealed with a dark red aluminium flip-off cap; the 
solvent is contained in a 5 ml clear type I glass ampoule, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of carmustine is 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosourea corresponding to the molecular 
formula C5H9Cl 2N3O2. It has a relative molecular mass 214.05 g/mol and the following structure (Figure 
1): 
Figure 1. Structure of carmustine 
Carmustine appears as a light yellow granular powder. It is very slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in 
ethanol. 
As  there  is  a  monograph  of  Carmustine  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia,  the  manufacturer  of  the  active 
substance has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for Carmustine 
which has been provided within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
The active substance is packaged in double LDPE bags with desiccant placed inside a metal can as described 
in the CEP. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 9/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
The active substance specification shown in Table 1 includes tests for: appearance, identity (IR, HPLC), assay 
(HPLC, UV), water content (KF), heavy metals (ICP-MS), organic impurities (HPLC), 2-Chloroethylamine 
(TLC), acetaldehyde and 2-Chloroethanol, ethanol (GC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and microbiological 
purity (Ph. Eur.). 
Table 1. Carmustine active substance specification 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 10/49 
 
 
 
The specification tests and acceptance criteria ensure compliance with the Carmustine Ph. Eur. monograph 
and the CEP. The CEP includes three additional test methods compared to the monograph: test for 2- 
Chloroethylamine by TLC, residual acetaldehyde, residual ethanol and 2-chloroethanol by GC. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from three commercial batches are provided. The results are within the specifications and 
consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
The proposed re-test period and packaging material for carmustine are covered by the CEP. The retest period 
is 2 years stored in double LDPE bags with desiccant inside a metal can at 2-8 ºC. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder for solution for infusion is a yellowish powder. Before administration 
powder should be reconstituted in ethanol and water for injection and further diluted with suitable diluents. 
Table 2. Complete composition of Carmustine Obvius per vial 
Ingredient 
Reference 
Amount (mg/vial) 
Function 
Carmustine 
Ph. Eur. 1187 
100 mg 
Active substance 
Ethanol, 
anhydrous 
Ph. Eur. 1318 
None¹ 
Solvent 
Water for Injection  Ph. Eur. 0169 
None¹ 
Solvent 
¹ -is a process ingredient, which evaporate during lyophilisation, and is therefore not part of the final product 
Carmustine  Obvius  is  a  simple  formulation  containing  only  the  active  substance  carmustine.  Taking  into 
account the fact that it concerns a powder for solution for infusion (parenteral use) no extensive development 
studies were performed. According to the information obtained from EDQM, water is used in the final step of 
synthesis of active substance (in final recrystallization). As the active substance is further used for parenteral 
infusion, the applicant upon the CHMP request demonstrated compliance of the water used in the final steps 
of  the  synthesis  with  the  corresponding  requirements  of  CPMP/QWP/158/01  Revision  “Note  for  guidance  on 
quality of water for pharmaceutical use”. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 11/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients  used  as  processing  solvents  in  the  manufacture  of  carmustine  100  mg  powder  for  solution  for 
infusion  are  ethanol  and  water  for  injection,  which  are  evaporated  during  freeze-drying  step  and  are  not 
present in the finished product. The quality of excipients used during manufacturing process is confirmed to 
comply  with  Ph.Eur.  monographs  1318  (Ethanol,  anhydrous)  and  0169  (Water  for  injections)  and  are 
commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry. 
The  reference  product  Carmubris  (from  EU  market)  has  been  characterised  with  respect  to  a  chemical- 
pharmaceutical  properties;  i.e.  appearance,  pH,  density,  osmolality,  reconstitution  time,  assay,  impurities 
profile, water content and container closure characterization. 
From  a  pharmaceutical  point  of  view,  Carmustine  Obvius  and  the  reference  products  have  the  same  active 
substance,  the  same  pharmaceutical  form  and  the  same  route  of  administration.  Comparative  studies 
between the generic product and two batches of the reference product Carmubris have been performed and 
show essential similarity with respect to major physicochemical parameters (appearance, appearance of the 
reconstituted  solution,  pH  value,  density,  assay,  osmolality,  reconstitution  time,  water  content,  impurity  A, 
any unspecified impurity and total impurities). The impurity profiles between the test and reference products 
are  comparable;  the  only  minor  difference  being  the  presence  of  an  unknown  impurity  in  the  reference 
product.  Osmotic  values  were  compared  between  generic  product  and  reference  product  and  can  also  be 
considered as comparable. The reference product shows slightly higher water content. 
In  conclusion,  Carmustine  Obviuscan  be  considered  as  essentially  similar  to  the  reference  product  as  it 
contains the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active ingredient and is presented in the same 
pharmaceutical form. 
The  pharmaceutical  development  studies  focused  mainly  on  development  of  a  stable  bulk  solution  with 
appropriate  concentration  of  the  active  and  compounding  temperature  to  assure  bulk  solution  stability  and 
development and optimisation of the lyophilisation process resulting in a stable product with pharmaceutically 
acceptable  physico-chemical  properties.  The  development  of  the  manufacturing  process  (compounding, 
filtration,  filling  and  freeze  drying  process)  for  the  drug  product  Carmustine  Obvius  has  been  performed  at 
Oncotec Pharma Produktion GmbH. Because carmustine is very slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in 
ethanol,  the  active  substance  is  dissolved  in  ethanol  and  water  is  added  subsequently  to  form  the  bulk 
solution.  The  active  substance  is  very  reactive  and  rapidly  degrades  through  formation  of  Impurity  A  and 
multiple  other  impurities  when  exposed  to  heat  (room  temperature),  oxidation,  acid/alkali  treatment  and 
light. The degradation is significantly increased when the active substance is in solution. The solubility of the 
active substance and the stability of bulk solution were tested at different concentrations and temperatures. 
The  data  showed  a  temperature  effect  on  the  stability  of  the  bulk  solution  and  that  a  low  concentration  (3 
mg/ml)  at  a  low  temperature  (12.5  ±  2.5°C)  leads  to  a  stable  bulk  solution  of  carmustine  in  a  12.5  vol% 
ethanol  solution  without  precipitation  and  crystal  formation.  Therefore  the  above  values  for  these  three 
parameters have been set for use in the routine manufacture. Results indicated that the temperature of the 
bulk solution was critical for the stability of the bulk solution, thus the temperature was set as critical process 
parameter to  be  monitored  during  the  compounding  process.  Nitrogen  is  used  during  routine  compounding, 
filling  and  freeze  drying  to  minimise  the  amount  of  oxidative  reactions  during  manufacture.  Its  quality 
complies  with  the  Ph.Eur.  monograph  for  Nitrogen.  The  active  substance  is  also  sensitive to  light,  therefore 
light  protective  conditions  (equipment  closed  with  aluminium  lids  and  filling  at  the  red light)  are  considered 
during  manufacturing  process.  Moreover,  the  time  from  addition  of  active  substance  to  freeze  drying  is 
important as the active substance degrades in solution. Development studies with bulk solution were 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 12/49 
 
 
 
 
 
performed and a holding/processing time was defined. The time from addition of active substance to the end 
sterile filtration is defined to 4 hours to ensure enough time for filling and loading of the freeze dryer within a 
total of 8 hours from compounding. 
The freeze drying program was tested with the pilot scale freeze dryer to confirm the designed freeze drying 
program. 
Lyophilisation parameters were evaluated and optimised according to target of final water content, amount of 
impurities, assay and optimal lyophilisation cycle total length by changing filling volume, concentration of 
active substance in ethanol solution, drying temperatures and time and overfilling. The main focus in the 
lyophilisation cycle development was related to cake appearance, water content, assay and content of the 
related substances. Based on the critical temperatures and several trial runs, in which temperatures and 
times of the separate steps were varied, the lyophilisation cycle parameters were established as shown in 
Table 3: 
Table 3. Carmustine lyophilisation cycle parameters 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 13/49 
 
 
The duration of the freeze drying cycle was increased during cycle optimization studies due to the reduction 
of the concentration of Carmustine in bulk solution and leads to a homogenous result of the finished product 
after the freeze drying. 
It is proposed to use 5 % overfill of bulk solution in the vials prior to freeze drying during filling process thus 
ensuring  acceptable  content  of  carmustine  in  the  final  freeze  dried  product.  According  to  the  applicant,  an 
overfilling of 5 % is required for the routine production to achieve an assay of 100 % due to small molecule 
weight, the fluffy cake structure and the high filling limit might have caused a sublimation effect/micro blow 
out (molecules can be pulled out of the vial by the sublimation force). 
It has been demonstrated that dry heat sterilization and radiation sterilization lead to significant degradation 
of  the  finished  product  since  carmustine  is  a  thermolabile  substance,  therefore  sterilisation  by  aseptic 
processing and filtration, was considered the most appropriate method. The choice of sterilisation method is 
considered  satisfactorily  justified  according  to  the  “Decision  trees  for  the  selection  of  sterilisation  methods” 
(CPMP/QWP/054/98).  Taking  also  into  account  the  known  sensitivity  of  the  active  substance  to  elevated 
temperature (melting range ~30 °C), the bulk solution processing temperature was set accordingly and the 
manufacturing  process  includes  use  of  nitrogen  to  avoid  oxidation.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the 
impact  of  the  employed  filter  (PVDF)  used  for  sterilization  on  assay  and  impurity  profile  has  been  provided 
including acceptable validation reports. 
The  active  substance  is  known  to  be  light  sensitive.  Therefore  brown  glass  vials  are  used  as  primary 
packaging.  Additional  warning  to  keep  drug  product  in  outer  packaging  and  protect  from  light  also  during 
clinical use are stated in the product information. The vials are stoppered with light grey 20 mm bromobutyl 
stoppers  and  sealed  with  a  dark  red  aluminium  flip-off  cap.  The  proposed  container  closure  system  is 
common for freeze dried powders and suitable for the current finished product. The size of vial (50 ml) was 
chosen  to  cover  the  filling  amount  and  reconstitution  amount.  As  the  finished  product  is  a  dry  powder, 
according to chapter 3.2.1 of the European Pharmacopoeia, it is justified to use a glass quality conforming to 
type I glass. The rubber stoppers are made of bromobutyl rubber, which are recommended by Ph. Eur. 3.2.9 
to be used in manufacture of parenteral dosage forms. 
Solvent  
The solvent is used for the reconstitution of lyophilised carmustine and consists of anhydrous ethanol; there 
are no other components (Table 4). 
Table 4. Complete composition of solvent per vial (3.3 ml) 
Ingredient 
Reference 
Quantity 
Function 
Ethanol, anhydrous 
Ph.Eur. 1318 
3.3 ml 
Solvent 
Nitrogen is used in the manufacturing process, but is not present in the finished product. Anhydrous ethanol 
is a colourless to light yellow, clear liquid and complies with Ph.Eur. 1318 monograph requirements.  The 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 14/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nitrogen gas used in the manufacture of the ethanol solvent complies with Ph. Eur. monograph for Nitrogen. 
No formulation development has been performed. 
The manufacturing process is a simple process of filling ethanol in vials. The most critical issue is the sterility 
of the diluent as it is intended for intravenous use. A manufacturer for the diluent who has prior experience 
with both sterile products as well as working with ethanol was selected in this regard. The diluent is sterilised 
by  a  combination  of  aseptic  filtration  and  aseptic  processing.  The  sterilisation  method  has  been  justified  in 
according  to  the  “Decision  trees  for  the  selection  of  sterilisation  methods”  (CPMP/QWP/054/98)  taking  into 
account the physicochemical properties of the solvent (ethanol) e.g. boiling point. 
A  risk  analysis  investigation  the  different  manufacturing  steps  of  the  production  process  for  Ethanol  in  vials 
has been performed for all steps of the process. The possible risks connected to each step and the content of 
preventive controls have been summarised and presented. It has been concluded that the critical steps are: 
preparation of the bulk solution, sterile filtration, filling/crimping of the vials. 
The overall strategy of the steps taken to ensure the sterility of the ethanol solvent was provided. The 
overview of the performed media fill runs was presented in the dossier. 
It has been clarified that an overfill of 0.3 ml is applied and, therefore, 3.3 ml of solvent is filled in the 
ampoule in order to ensure that the health care professionals can withdraw at least 3.0 ml required for the 
powder reconstitution. 
The  initial  container  closure  system  for  the  diluent  was  glass  Type  I  vials  sealed  with  stoppers  and  a 
combined flip off cap. During the final manufacturing runs of three commercial scale batches, high values of 
Residue  on  Evaporation  and  Absorbance  were  obtained.  During  development  of  the  manufacturing  process 
several issues arose as the filling line as well as the intended stopper resulted in OOS results on absorbance 
as  well  as  Residue  on  Evaporation.  Root  cause  analysis  and  re-development  work  has  been  described  in 
detail.  In  order  to  avoid  the  risk  of  introducing  impurities  from  the  stoppers,  it  was  decided  to  use  glass 
ampoules as the primary container for the ethanol solvent, as the absorbance and residue on evaporation is 
not  expected  to  be  affected  by  the  container  closure  system  when  using  glass  ampoules.  A  different 
manufacturer of the ethanol solvent was also introduced. 
The  proposed  container  closure  system  consists  of  a  5  mL,  Form  B,  OPC  Type  I  Clear  glass  ampoule.  The 
glass ampoules are tested in accordance with Ph. Eur. 3.2.1. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
The main steps of the manufacturing process are the preparation of primary packaging materials, preparation 
of  the  solution,  pre-,  sterile  filtration,  filling  into  vials,  lyophilisation  and  closing  of  the  vials,  labelling  and 
packaging. A production flow chart, identifying the in-process controls, is presented in Figure 2. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 15/49 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 16/49 
 
 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 17/49 
 
 
Figure 2. Carmustine Obvius powder for solution for infusion manufacturing process flow chart 
No holding time on the bulk solution has been defined and therefore no intermediates have been defined. 
However, due to the rapid degradation of the active substance when in a solution maximum processing 
times during routine manufacturing process have been defined during development studies and confirmed 
by validation studies. The material of container at which these studies have been performed was stated. 
Nitrogen is used during routine compounding, filling and freeze drying steps to minimize the amount of 
oxidative reactions during manufacture. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 18/49 
 
 
 
Time and temperature is stated for primary packaging sterilisation cycles. 
The primary container closure system (50 mL glass vial) is sterilised by dry heat in accordance with Ph. Eur. 
5.1.1. The sterilisation process is performed according to a validated procedure and undergoes a regular 
revalidation using a worst-case concept. The validation package for the heat sterilization process was 
provided. The latest report on the routine revalidation of the process using the worst-case vial size of 100 
mL is also included. The validation reports confirm the proposed sterilisation process efficacy. 
The steam sterilisation of the rubber stoppers is performed at standard Ph.Eur. conditions of at least 121°C 
for at least 15 minutes, therefore no further information was requested. 
Filter validation data (reports) has been provided with regards to bacterial retention capacity, solution 
compatibility and extractable/leachable. 
Sterile filtration, filling of vials and lyophilisation are defined as critical steps. Filtration step is controlled by 
the bioburden limit prior to sterile filtration and filter integrity testing before and after filtration. Filling step 
is controlled by testing of fill weight. Continuous control of time, pressure and temperature is performed by 
computer monitoring throughout the lyophilisation process step. The control strategy of critical steps is 
satisfactory to ensure consistent manufacturing process and quality of finished product. 
The  aseptic  manufacturing  process  by  sterile  filtration  in  combination  with  a  lyophilisation  process,  is 
considered  a  non-standard  manufacturing  process  in  accordance  with  Annex  II  of  the  Guideline  on  process 
validation  for  finished  products,  therefore  validation  has  been  performed  on  three  consecutive  commercial 
scale batches manufactured in accordance with the commercial process. Information regarding media fill runs 
at  the  proposed  manufacturing  site  has  also  been  included  in  the  dossier.  The  results  obtained  during  the 
validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  in  general  confirm  that  all  the  parameters  tested of  all  the  batches 
are in line with the required specifications and could be considered as validated. 
Solvent 
Anhydrous ethanol is pre-filtered and sterile filtered, and aseptically filled in ampoules. The main steps of 
the manufacturing process are the preparation of primary packaging materials, preparation of bulk ethanol 
volume, sterile filtration, aseptic filling into vials, closing and inspection. A production flow chart, identifying 
the in-process controls, is presented in Figure 3. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 19/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Ethanol solvent manufacturing process flow chart. 
Critical steps have been defined as preparation of bulk solution, sterile filtration, filling of ampoules, closing. 
The IPCs for each step were described and are adequate. The bioburden is controlled before sterile filtration 
with acceptable limit; filter integrity is controlled after filtration. 
The holding time during routine manufacture from addition of ethanol to end of filtration is not more than 24 
hours and has been justified by filter validation data as well as process validation data. 
Both  the  sterile  filtration  and  filling  steps  are  performed  in  the  presence  of  nitrogen.  The  reason  for  using 
nitrogen  gas  is  to  create  positive  pressure  for  solution  transfer  during  filtration  and  filling.  The  presence  of 
nitrogen  also  reduces  the  risk  of  oxidation  of  the  ethanol,  and  of  ignition  of  the  flammable  ethanol.  The 
nitrogen is removed during manufacture and is not present in the final product. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 20/49 
 
 
 
 
The  manufacturing  process  is  considered  to  be  a  non-standard  process.  A  process  validation  of  the 
manufacturing  process  of  the  ethanol  solvent  has  been  performed  on  three  consecutive  commercial  scale 
validation  batches.  The  conclusion  is  that  the  process  is  validated  and  suitable  for  the  intended  use. 
Satisfactory  filter  validation  data  was  provided  with  respect  to  extractables  from  filter,  bacterial  retention 
capacity  and  solution  compatibility.  The  overview  of  the  performed  media  fill  runs  was  also  presented.  The 
bracketing approach applied is acceptable. 
Product specification 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
The release and shelf-life specifications for the Powder for solution for infusion, reproduced in Table 5, include 
appropriate  tests  and  limits  for  appearance  of  powder  (visual),  clarity  and  colour  of  reconstituted  solution 
(Ph. Eur.), pH of reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), osmolality (Ph. Eur.), reconstitution time, visible and sub- 
visible  particles  (Ph.  Eur.),  identity  (HPLC,  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  related  impurities  (HPLC),  water  content  (Ph. 
Eur.),  residual  solvent  (Ph.  Eur.),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  by  weight  variation  (Ph.  Eur.),  sterility  (Ph. 
Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and container closure integrity (Ph. Eur.). 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 21/49 
 
 
 
Table 5. Carmustine Obvius powder for solution for infusion release and shelf-life specifications 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 22/49 
 
 
The specifications for the drug product in general is prepared in line with requirements given in ICH 
guideline Q6A as well as with the requirements set in the current Ph. Eur. for parenteral preparations. 
The applied endotoxin limit has been calculated as requested and is considered acceptable considering adult 
only patient population. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from three production scale has been presented. All data is within specification. The 
results show that the finished product can be manufactured with consistent quality and meet its 
specifications. 
Solvent 
The release and shelf-life specifications for the Solvent, reproduced in Table 6, include appropriate tests and 
limits for appearance (visual), identity (relative density, IR), extractable volume (Ph. Eur.), acidity or alkalinity 
(Ph. Eur.), residue on evaporation (Ph. Eur.), assay (Ph. Eur.), absorbance (Ph. Eur.), volatile impurities (Ph. 
Eur.), visible and sub-visible particles (Ph. Eur.), sterility (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.). 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 23/49 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Solvent release and shelf-life specifications. 
The specification for the Solvent contains all the tests described in the Ph. Eur. monograph 1318 for ethanol 
anhydrous. Since the route of administration is i.v.  the Ph.  Eur. tests for visible and sub-visible particles as 
well  as  sterility  and  endotoxin  are  also  included  in  the  specification.  The  specification  limit  for  bacterial 
endotoxins is calculated in accordance with Ph.Eur. 5.1.10. 
In addition, a Ph. Eur. Test for extractable volume ensures that the amount in each vial is acceptable. Filling 
volume is ensured through in-process controls by weighing thus ensuring the uniformity of content in the 
diluent vials. 
All the analytical procedures tests are performed according to Ph. Eur. Only exception is the appearance 
which is a very simple test. Method validation reports for sterility test method and bacterial endotoxin test 
method have been provided. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has 
been presented. 
Batch results for three commercial scale batches demonstrated compliance with the proposed specifications. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 24/49 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Stability data from three production scale batches stored in the proposed packaging both in upright and 
inverted position under long term conditions for up to 18 months (2°C -8°C) and under accelerated 
conditions 25°C / 60 % RH for 6 months according to the ICH guidelines was provided. 
All tests in the specification were performed at the 18 month time point (including endotoxin and sterility), 
including the new tests in the updated specification. Both HPLC methods were demonstrated to be stability 
indicating. No trend is observed for up to 18 month storage at 2-8°C. All data are within the updated 
specification limits for all three batches for both upright and inverted positions of the vials. Results from the 
accelerated conditions show a time dependent degradation, where carmustine content is OOS after 6 
months and the content of impurity A is OOS after 6 months. The water content increased however stayed 
within the specification limits. Additional data with the recently implemented method for testing unknown 
impurities were also provided and support the original data. 
An elevated temperature stability study was performed on three commercial scale batches stored at 
elevated temperature at 25°C/60% RH for 24 hours and 7 days, followed by 6 month storage at long term 
conditions (2-8°C). Vials were stored both upright and inverted position. All data are within the 
specification. The generated data supports temperature excursions, i.e. such as those likely during transport 
of the product. 
In addition, a stress stability study was conducted to demonstrate the stability indicating capability of the 
analytical methods. Samples were exposed to heat, light, acid, alkali and oxidative treatments. Based on 
these data it is concluded that the finished product in solution is much less stable as compared to in a 
lyophilisate. It is known that the active substance is light sensitive. The stress study confirmed as expected 
that the drug product when exposed to daylight, especially in solution, showed very significant degradation 
and heavy formation of unspecified impurities and should therefore be protected from light. 
An in-use/compatibility stability study has been performed upon request of the CHMP during the procedure. 
The study was performed on two commercial scale batches mimicking the clinical use of the product. The 
purpose of the in-use/compatibility study was to support an in-use shelf-life. The stability commitments in 
this regard are also noted and are acceptable. 
The previously proposed pre-cooling step (precooling of the 5% glucose and with 0.9% sodium chloride 
solutions to be used for reconstitution and dilution) has been excluded from description of handling 
procedures for healthcare professionals, as is not justified from clinical point of view. 
The two commercial scale batches of Carmustine Obvius have been tested and compared with one batch of 
the reference product Carmubris. The study was conducted in glass containers with PVC free PE infusion 
sets, stored at inverted position at room temperature, protected from light and tested after 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 
hours to demonstrate quality of Carmustine Obvius within proposed period of use (infusion 1-2 hours) and 
compatibility with proposed container and solvents solutions listed in the SmPC. 
The parameters investigated were clarity and color of solution, pH, osmolality/density, assay of carmustine, 
impurity A, unknown impurities and total impurities, visual particles/sub-visual particles. The acceptance 
criteria for clarity, color of solution, pH, osmolality/density are the same as for release/shelf-life 
specification. The results for reconstituted/diluted carmustine solution were found within proposed limits 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 25/49 
 
 
 
 
 
and are acceptable. The acceptance criteria for impurity A, unknown impurities and total impurities are the 
same as for release/shelf-life specification and are considered qualified and justified in accordance with the 
Ph. Eur. monograph on Carmustine (1187) and guideline CPMP/ICH/2738/99 Impurities in new Drug 
Products. 
Out of specification results for ready for use infusion solution were observed for assay. During storage assay 
decreases more than 5 % at testing time point 4 hour. 
The comparison of the stability of the reconstituted/diluted Carmustine Obvius with the stability of the 
reference product it has been shown that the in-use assay content and degradation profile of the generic 
product and reference product Carmubris shows similar degradation tendencies with approximate 4-5 % 
decrease in assay from initial value at testing time point 3 h. At testing time point 4 h decrease in assay is 
more than 5 % i.e. 6-7%. It is known that active substance is susceptible for degradation in solution, 
however it should be noted that severe mass imbalances (e.g. assay decrease without increase of impurity 
level) were observed during in-use stability studies, and were not explained by the applicant. However 
considering the similar degradation profile between the test and reference product and the observed 
assay/impurity imbalance, the acceptance criteria for assay in the in-use specification (Table 7) 87.2 % - 
106 % and the administration of the infusion solution must be completed within 3 hours after preparation 
of solution (SmPC 6.3 and 6.6). 
Table 7. In use shelf-life specifications. 
Out of specification results for ready for use infusion solution were also observed for particulate 
contamination. During storage tests results for visual and sub-visual particle doesn’t fulfill Ph. Eur. 
requirements for parenteral preparations. However the CHMP noted that in accordance with Ph.Eur. all 
parenteral preparations have to be tested for visible/subvisible particles and in-use specification should 
include test for particles in accordance with guidelines CPMP/ICH/367/96 Specifications: Test Procedures 
and Acceptance Criteria for New Drug Substances and New Drug Products: Chemical Substances, where it is 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 26/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stated that both chemical and physical parameters should be monitored. The CHMP also noted that the 
manufacturer should be able to control quality of the product during lifecycle, and therefore the test for 
visible/sub-visible particles should be included in the in-use specification. Analytical results demonstrating 
compliance with Ph.Eur requirements for parenterals regarding visible/sub-visible particles were provided. 
Based on the provided stability data, a shelf life of 24 months for the powder vials has been demonstrated. 
The product must be stored and transported refrigerated (2°C – 8°C), and kept in the vial and ampoule in 
the outer carton, in order to protect from light. The in-use shelf-life claim of 3 hours at room temperature 
for the reconstituted and diluted with 5% glucose or 0.9% NaCl solution as stated in the SmPC (section 6.6) 
is also acceptable. The reconstituted and diluted solutions must be administered over 1-2 hours and 
administration must be finalised within 3 hours after reconstitution of the product (section 6.3). 
Solvent 
Stability data was provided from three production scale batches and one at 50% the full scale batch size 
stored in the proposed packaging both in upright and inverted position under long term conditions (2°C-8°C 
and 25°C/60% RH) for up to 6 months and under accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) for 6 months 
according to the ICH guidelines. 
All tests in the specification were performed. All the results are within the updated specification limits for all 
three batches for both upright and inverted positions of the vials. 
In addition 18 months supportive stability data performed on 3 batches of Dehydrated Alcohol Injection, USP 
in  glass  vials  with  a  coated  rubber  stopper,  at  25°C/60%  RH  have  been  presented.  Samples  in  this  study 
were tested according to USP specification which is very much similar to Ph. Eur. The results from this study 
comply with the acceptance criteria for up to 18 months and demonstrate that ethanol is stable for at least  
18 months when stored in glass vials with coated rubber stoppers. 
Extrapolation  of  the  pivotal  stability  data  is  applied  and  12  months  shelf-life  is  proposed.  Considering  the 
nature  of  the  solvent  (ethanol  anhydrous)  and  primary  packaging  (glass  ampoule),  the  proposed 
extrapolation  of  the  shelf  life  to  12  months  is  accepted.  According  to  the  stability  data  (25°C  long-term 
condition  and  40°C  accelerated  condition),  no  special  storage  conditions  are  necessary.  Additionally,  the 
stability of ethanol ampoules in 2-8°C is shown as the ethanol solvent ampoules will be packed together with 
the carmustine powder which is to be stored at 2-8°C. 
Powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion  
Due to fact that ethanol solvent ampoules will be packed together with the carmustine powder, the accepted 
shelf-life  for  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  solvent  package  is  limited  to  the  accepted 
shelf life of the solvent which is shorter than the powder. 
In  conclusion,  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  12  months  and  the  storage  conditions  for  the  finished  product 
(powder vial and solvent ampoule) as stated in the SmPC (sections 6.3 and 6.4) are acceptable. The product 
must  be  stored  and  transported  refrigerated  (2°C  -  8°C),  and  kept  in  the  vial  and  ampoule  in  the  outer 
carton, in order to protect from light. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 27/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  Issues  related  to  the  stability  of  the,  prone  to  degradation,  active 
substance,  the  finished  product,  and  the  reconstituted  and  diluted  product  ready  for  administration  have  
been satisfactorily addressed and appropriate instructions are included in the SmPC regarding reconstitution, 
dilution,  handling  and  administration.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
None. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  Applicant  following  a request  from  the  CHMP  has  submitted phase  I  (pre-screening)  evaluation.  Using 
the equation of Du Bois* (Du Bois & Du Bois, 1916) the body surface area in a human weighing 70kg with a 
height  of  185cm  can  be  calculated  to  1.85m2.  According  to  the  proposed  SmPC  the  maximum  dose  of 
Carmustine Obvius 100mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion is 200mg/m2 which 
thereby equal a maximum dose per inhabitant of 370mg. PECsurface water can then be calculated as – 
PECsurface water = 370 x 0.01/200 x 10 = 0.00185mg/liter equals 1.85μg/liter. The Applicant stated that the 
emission of active substance is larger than the action limit of < 1μg/liter. 
Refinement of the PECsurface  water was made. The calculation was based on the fact that the medicine is used 
once  every  6  weeks  so  the  value  was  divided  with  42.  PECsurface  water  value  resulted  0.044µg/liter.  The  
logK OW  value  is  1.53.  A  revised  ERA  was  submitted  in  which  a  refinement  of  Fpen  according  to  the 
“Guideline on the 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 28/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human  use”  has  been  performed.  Fpen  was 
calculated  based  on  published  prevalence  data  for  the  sought  indications.  The  calculated  value  for 
PECsurface water using the refined Fpen values for all individual indications fell below the action limit of 
0.01  μg/L,  as  did  the  summed  PECsurface  water  of  all  indications  combined.  This  value  was  calculated  as 
0.0057 μg/L. 
Based on this calculation, and since no other environmental concerns for the active substance carmustine 
became apparent (especially since the octanol-water partition coefficient of 1.53 was well below the action 
limit of 4.5), it is concluded that Carmustine Obvius is unlikely to represent a risk for the environment and 
that ERA studies should be waived. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Carmustine  is  a  cell-cycle phase  nonspecific  antineoplastic  agent  of  nitrosourea  type,  which  exerts  tumour 
cytotoxicity  via  multiple  mechanisms.  As  an  alkylating  agent,  it  can  alkylate  reactive  sites  on  
nucleoproteins, thus interfering with DNA and RNA synthesis and DNA repair. It is able to form interstrand 
crosslinks  in  DNA,  which  prevents  DNA  replication  and  transcription.  Carmustine  undergoes  spontaneous 
nonenzymatic decomposition under physiological conditions to release reactive intermediates with alkylating 
and carbamoylating activities, which are thought to be responsible for the antineoplastic and toxic activities 
of carmustine. 
The  non-clinical  overview  provides  detailed  information  on  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  activity,  efficacy  and 
pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  studies  in  animal  models  and  human  tumour  cell  cultures  from  the 
published literature. The safety pharmacology of carmustine has not been demonstrated due to the lack of 
published data. 
Formal  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  not  been  conducted  and  it  is  considered  acceptable  for 
generic application. The non-clinical overview provides comprehensive overview of published information on 
pharmacokinetics of carmustine, including parameters in different animal species. 
The  biological  half-life  of  carmustine  is  short.  Intravenously  administered  BCNU  is  rapidly  degraded  to 
reactive  intermediates  with  a  half-life  of  approximately  15  min  in  humans.  In  studies  on  dogs,  using 
radiolabeled BCNU, approximately 28–30% of the total radioactivity administered was excreted in the urine 
in 6 h. Pharmacokinetic study in the dog demonstrates a rapid decline of carmustine in the plasma following 
intravenous injection. 
Systemically administered carmustine is distributed to most tissues, including the brain. Carmustine crosses 
the blood-brain barrier readily, which has been observed in both dogs and monkeys. Carmustine is unstable 
in aqueous solution and undergoes spontaneous decomposition to release reactive intermediates. 
Carmustine is inactivated through enzymatic biotransformation. Excretion is primarily in the urine: most 
rapid in mice and less rapid in dogs and monkeys. 
The range of non-clinical data presented in the dossier is typical for a generic application. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
The CHMP considers that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
Following the submission of a revised ERA it is concluded that Carmustine Obvius is unlikely to represent a 
risk for the environment and that ERA studies should be waived. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 29/49 
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of Carmustine Obvius and justifications that 
the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the 
reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant 
guideline and additional non-clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
Carmustine Obvius 100mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion is unlikely to 
represent a risk for the environment following its prescribed usage in patients. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Carmustine Obvius containing 100 mg powder and solvent for solution for 
infusion containing carmustine, the same active substance in the same quantity and in the same dosage 
form as the reference product. 
It is intended for intravenous administration. According to the current Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev.1/Corr**), bioequivalence studies are generally not 
required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same 
active substance as the currently approved product. 
There are no excipient interactions which might affect the pharmacokinetics of the active substance. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well 
as efficacy and safety of carmustine based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of 
the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product. 
GCP 
N/A 
The use of carmustine is well established. The Applicant has provided a justification for not submitting new 
clinical data (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamics studies). 
The updated overview included following additional scientific publications on efficacy of carmustine in 
proposed indications: 
Author 
Study 
Diagnosis 
Treatment 
Endpoints/outco 
me 
Rao et al. 
North 
newly 
carmustine (40 mg/m2/d) on Days 1– 
Primary: 
23 
(2005) 
Central 
Cancer 
diagnosed 
Grade 
3 
3, oral etoposide (50 mg/d)  on 
Days 1–21 and 29–49, and cisplatin 
months survival 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 30/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment 
anaplastic 
(20  mg/m2/d  i.v.)  on  Days  1–3  and 
Group trial 
astrocytoma 
29–31.  The  regimen  was  repeated 
98-72-51 
(n=29) 
every  8  weeks  for  three  cycles,  with 
–  phase  II, 
single  arm, 
open label 
conventionally  fractionated  RT  (5000 
cGy with a 1000-cGy boost) delivered 
concurrently with the third cycle 
No 
results 
provided 
in 
Clinical  overview, 
except  abstract 
conclusion  - pre- 
RT 
chemotherapy 
with this regimen 
is 
insufficiently 
active in patients 
with 
anaplastic 
astrocytoma 
Gill et  al.  Retrospecti  Recurrent 
(2008)  
ve study 
embryonal 
central nervous 
system    (CNS) 
tumours 
(medulloblasto 
ma, 
 cerebral 
neuroblastoma, 
pineoblastoma, 
and 
primitive 
neuroectoderm 
al 
Conventional dose chemotherapy   
(n=13) 
Conventional 
cisplatin-containing 
regimens 
d ose chemoth
cisplatin  (20  mg/m2  on  Days  1–5), 
er apy: 
etoposide (60 mg/ m2 on Days 1–3), 
and  cyclophosphamide  (500  mg/m2 
on  Day  1,  every  4–5  weeks); 
TTP  =  median 
cisplatin (45 mg/m2 on Days 2 and 
0.58 years 
3)  and  etoposide  (100mg/m2  on 
Days  1–3,  every  4  weeks);  single 
agent cisplatin (60  mg/m2 
OS= 
median 
administered on Day 1, every 3–4 
2.00 years 
tumours) 
in  weeks). 
adults (n=23) 
nitrosourea-containing 
regimens: 
lomustine (120 mg/m2 on Day 1), 
procarbazine (60 mg/m2 on Days 7– 
20), and  vincristine  (1.4  mg/m2 on 
Days 7 and 28, every 6 weeks); and 
lomustine (120 mg/m2 on Day 1) 
and procarbazine (60 mg/m2 on 
Days 7–20, every 6 weeks) 
HDC with ASCT 
TTP  =  median 
1.25 years 
OS  =  median 
3.47 years 
HDC with ASCT (n=10) 
Cycle 1 - Thiotepa (200 mg/m2 on 
Conclusion: 
Days 25, 24, and 23) and carmustine 
When compared 
(100  mg/m2  on  Days  25,  24, and 
with conventional 
23). 
ASCT on Day 0 + granulocyte- 
macrophage–colony-stimulating 
cisplatin-based 
and/or 
nitrosourea- 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 31/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
factor (GM-CSF) at a dose of 5 µg/kg  based 
daily beginning on Day 6 
Cycle 2 - thiotepa (200 mg/m2 on 
Days 25, 24, and 23) and carboplatin 
(400 mg/m2 on Days 25, 24, and 
23). 
chemotherapy 
regimens, which 
have  previously 
been shown to 
be active in this 
setting, HDC with 
ASCT on Day 0 + GMCSF at a dose of 
ASCT results in 
5 µg/kg s.c daily beginning on Day 6 
prolonged  
 TTP 
and continued until the ANC was 
and 
  median 
≥500/µL 
Gill et 
al.  Retrospecti 
Recurrent 
Conventional dose chemotherapy 
(2008) 
ve study 
embryonal 
(n=13) 
survival,    with 
acceptable 
toxicity. 
Conventional 
central nervous 
system    (CNS) 
tumours 
(medulloblasto 
ma, 
 cerebral 
neuroblastoma, 
pineoblastoma, 
and 
primitive 
neuroectoderm 
al 
cisplatin-containing 
regimens 
d ose chemoth
cisplatin  (20  mg/m2  on  Days  1–5), 
er apy: 
etoposide (60 mg/ m2 on Days 1–3), 
and  cyclophosphamide  (500  mg/m2 
on  Day  1,  every  4–5  weeks); 
TTP  =  median 
cisplatin (45 mg/m2 on Days 2 and 
0.58 years 
3)  and  etoposide  (100mg/m2  on 
Days  1–3,  every  4  weeks);  single 
agent cisplatin (60  mg/m2 
administered on Day 1, every 3–4 
OS= 
median 
2.00 years 
tumours) 
in  weeks). 
adults (n=23) 
nitrosourea-containing 
regimens: 
lomustine  (120  mg/m2  on  Day 1), 
procarbazine (60 mg/m2 on Days 7– 
20), and vincristine (1.4 mg/m2 on 
Days 7 and 28, every 6 weeks); and 
lomustine (120 mg/m2 on Day 1) 
and procarbazine (60 mg/m2 on 
Days 7–20, every 6 weeks) 
HDC with ASCT 
TTP  =  median 
1.25 years 
OS  =  median 
3.47 years 
HDC with ASCT (n=10) 
Cycle 1 - Thiotepa (200 mg/m2 on 
Conclusion: 
Days 25, 24, and 23) and carmustine 
When compared 
(100 mg/m2 on Days 25, 24, and 
with conventional 
23). 
ASCT on Day 0 + granulocyte- 
cisplatin-based 
and/or 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 32/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
macrophage–colony-stimulating 
nitrosourea- 
factor (GM-CSF) at a dose of 5 µg/kg 
based 
daily beginning on Day 6 
Cycle 2 - thiotepa (200 mg/m2 on 
Days 25, 24, and 23) and carboplatin 
(400  mg/m2  on  Days  25,  24, and 
23). 
chemotherapy 
regimens, which 
have  previously 
been shown to 
be active in this 
setting, HDC with 
ASCT on Day 0 + GMCSF at a dose of 
ASCT results in 
5 µg/kg s.c daily beginning on Day 6 
prolonged  
TTP 
and continued until the ANC was 
and 
median 
≥500/µL 
Van 
den  EORTC 
Reccurent 
Erlotinib 150 mg/daily, 
Bent 
et 
Brain 
glioblastomas 
al. (2009) 
Tumour 
after 
prior 
(n=54) Control arm 
radiotherapy 
TMZ (n=27) - 200 mg/m2 on days 1 
(n=110) 
to 5 every 4 weeks in chemotherapy- 
naïve  patients or  at  150 mg/m2  on 
days 1 to 5 every 4 weeks after  prior 
adjuvant   chemotherapy,   with dose 
Group 
Study 
26034 - a 
randomize 
d, 
controlled, 
phase 
II 
trial 
survival, 
with 
acceptable 
toxicity. 
Primary endpoin 
t 
6 
months PFS: 
Erlotinib - 11.4% 
(95%  CI, 4.6% - 
21.5%)  (median 
1.8 months) 
escalation   to   200   mg/m2   in  the 
TMZ/BCNU 
- 
absence of significant toxicity 
24.1% 
(median 
Or 
BCNU 
(carmustine) 
(n=29) 
80mg/m2  on  days  1  to  3  every 8 
2.4 months) 
Secondary endp
 oints: 
weeks  for  max  5  cycles.  Due  to 
Partial response 
carmustine 
induced 
myelosuppression  dose  was  reduced 
to 60 mg/m2 on days 1 to 3 every 8 
weeks 
Erlotinib – 3.7% 
(n=2) 
TMZ/BCNU 
– 
9.6% (n=5) 
Stable disease: 
Erlotinib  16.7% 
(n=9) 
TMZ/BCNU 
– 
34.6% (n=18) 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 33/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 months OS 
Erlotinib 57.6% 
TMZ/BCNU 
– 
58.5 
Median OS 
Erlotinib  –  7.7 
mo 
TMZ/BCNU – 7.3 
Kong et al.  Retrospecti  Gliomatosis 
Chemotherapy (n=19) – TMZ 200  OS – 
(2010) 
ve study to 
cerebri (=37) 
mg/m2  ×  consecutive  5  days  per 
investigate 
efficacy of 
adjuvant 
chemother 
apy 
month, 3-9 cycles; n=10 
Chemotherapy  – 
median 
24,2 
nitrosurea  based  (BCNU  (n=4), 
months  (95%CI: 
PCV[(procarbazine/lomustine/vincrist 
23.4-24.9 
ine] n=5) 
months); 
Control 
-Radiotherapy 
alone 
Control – median 
(n=18) 
13.1 
months 
(95%CI 
10.4- 
15.9 months) 
Between patients 
treated with TMZ 
and those  with 
nitrosourea- 
based 
chemotreatment, 
there  was  no 
significant 
difference 
of 
survival 
(p  > 
0.05 by log-rank 
test) PFS 
Chemotherapy – 
median 
16.0 
months (95% CI: 
11.7-20.2 
months) 
Control – median 
months 
6.0 
(95% CI: 4.9-7.1 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 34/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Venur 
et 
Review 
Newly 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy with TMZ, 
Recurrent 
months) 
al. (2015) 
diagnosed  and 
TMZ +RT 
recurrent 
glioblastoma 
Carmustine polymer wafers 
Bevacizumab 
Cilengitide 
Cytotoxic chemotherapy with TMZ, 
BCNU, PVC regimen 
Bevacizumab, lomustine 
Cediranib 
Enzastaurin 
glioblastoma: 
BCNU 
following 
surgery   
and 
standard 
radiotherapy    – 
median   
TTP 
=13.3 weeks 
PFS at 6 months 
– 17.5% 
Blumentha  Southwest  Newly 
Arm 1 - O6BG + BCNU (reduced 
Median OS : 
l 
et al. 
Oncology 
diagnosed 
dose)  plus  radiation  therapy  (RT) 
(2015) 
Group 
glioblastoma 
(n=90) 
O6BG + BCNU = 
11 
months 
(SWOG) 
and 
Study 
S0001 
Phase 
- 
III 
open-label 
gliosarcoma 
(histologically 
confirmed 
astrocytoma) 
40mg/m2  BCNU  6  hours  after  the 
(95%CI  8  –  13 
administration  of  120mg/m2  O6BG 
months) 
intravenously  over  1  hour  every  6 
weeks 
BCNU   +RT=  10 
months   (95%CI 
(n=183) 
Arm 2 - BCNU (standard dose)plus 
8 – 12 months) 
radiation therapy (n=89) 
BCNU 200 mg/m2 intravenously over 
1 hour every 6 weeks. 
PFS: 
O6BG + BCNU  = 
4 
months 
A maximum of seven cycles were 
(95%CI 4 – 5 
allowed 
months) 
Radiation therapy - once per day, 5 
days per week 
BCNU  +RT=  4 
months  (95%CI 
4 – 5 months) 
Conclusion:  The 
addition of  O6- 
BG 
to 
the 
standard 
regimen 
radiation 
BCNU 
treatment 
of 
and 
for 
of 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 35/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
newly-diagnosed 
glioblastoma and 
gliosarcoma   did 
not offer added 
benefit 
and 
caused additional 
toxicity. 
Hypothesis 
that 
extrinsic 
depletion  
  of 
MGMT 
renders 
GBM 
more 
sensitive 
    to 
alkylating 
therapy 
  with 
BCNU 
is 
not 
supported 
Hodgkin’s disease 
Author 
Study 
Diagnosis 
Treatment 
Endpoints/outcome 
Akhtar et al. 
Retrospective, 
Primary 
Salvage  chemotherapy 
Post-HDC 
ASCT 
(2007) 
observational 
refractory 
-ESHAP 
(etoposide 
Response 76% 
cohort study 
Hodgkin’s 
40mg/m 2 i.v. over 1–3 
lymphoma 
h  daily 
for  4  days, 
CR = 53% (n=35) 
(n=66) 
solumedrol  500mg  i.v. 
PR =21% (n=14) 
daily 
for 
4 
days, 
cisplatin 25 mg/m2/day 
NR/SD -5% (n=3) 
i.v.  as  a  continuous 
PD -15% (n=10) 
infusion  over  24  h  daily 
for  4  days  and  ara-C 
2000  mg/m2  i.v.  over 
OS -64%, median 57 
2–3 
h, 
following 
months 
completion  of  cisplatin 
on day 5 
EFS – 36% 
33% 
died 
due 
to 
disease 
Conclusion:  HDC  ASCT 
is  considered  standard 
option 
HDC and ASCT 
BEAM-BCNU 
300 
mg/m2 
i.v.  day  -6, 
etoposide 200  mg/m2 
i.v. daily for 4 days on 
days  -5,  -4,  -3  and  -2. 
Ara-C 200 mg/m2 i.v. q 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 36/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
William  et al.  Retrospective 
(2013)  
cohort study 
Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma   
(n=225) 
12 h (twice a day) daily 
for 4 days -5, -4, -3 
and 
-2.  Melphalan 
140mg/m 2 i.v. on day 
Stem 
-1). 
cell 
reinfusion 
was 
performed on day 0 and 
G-CSF 300 mg  s.c. 
twice a day was started 
from  day  +1  until 
engraftment 
Conditioning 
regimen  At a median follow-up 
prior ASCT: 
CBV 
(cyclophosphamide, 
carmustine, 
and 
of  8 
(range,  2-26) 
years,  225  patients 
were  alive  and  disease- 
free 2 years after ASCT 
etoposide) 
At 5 years: 
OR 
PFS 
BEAM =92% 
CBV =73% 
BEAM 
(carmustine,  OS 
etoposide,  cytarabine, 
and melphalan) 
BEAM = 95% 
CBV =87% 
At 10 years: 
PFS 
BEAM =79% 
CBV =59% 
OS 
BEAM = 84% 
CBV =66% 
Conclusion:  BEAM 
is 
associated   with  lower 
risk  of  progression and 
longer survival 
Czyz  et  al.  Retrospective 
Refractory 
or  Salvage chemotherapy 
10 year OS = 76% 
relapsed 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 37/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2013) 
cohort study 
Hodgkin’s 
PFS=66% 
lymphoma 
(n=132; 
The  high-dose  modified 
Conclusion: 
Patients 
BEAM 
regimen: 
with 
relapsed 
or 
Refractory 
carmustine  (total  dose 
refractory  HL  without 
n=89; relapsed 
n=43) 
300 mg/m2), etoposide 
(total        dose      800 
adverse 
prognostic 
factors  may  be  cured 
Median 
follow- 
up 68 months 
mg/m2), 
cytarabine 
with HDT and ASCT 
(total 
dose 
6,000 
mg/m2), 
melphalan 
(total dose 140 mg/m2) 
and 
dexamethasone 
(total dose 168 mg/m2) 
Sobol  et al. 
Prospective 
Refractory 
or 
Attenuated  dose  BEAM 
Response: 
(2014) 
study 
relapsed 
Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma 
(n=31) 
conditioning: 
BCNU 
(300  mg/m  2  IV  once) 
CR=81% (n=25) 
on  day  -6,  etoposide 
PR= 
3 
patients 
(100 mg/m 2 IV daily) 
(subsequently died) 
Median 
follow- 
up 7 years 
and  cytarabine 
(100 
mg/m  2  IV  BID)  on 
days -5 through -2 and 
melphalan  (140  mg/m2 
IV once) on day -1. 
RD = 2 patients 
At 7 years 
PFS= 36% (95%CI 19 
– 54%) 
OS = 42% (95%CI 23 
– 59%) 
NRM =18% (95%CI 8 – 
37%). 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas 
Author 
Study 
Diagnosis 
Treatment 
Endpoints/outcome 
Salar 
et 
al. 
Retrospective 
Clinically 
At 8 
(2001) 
study 
– 
35 
aggressive 
NHL 
Spanish 
hospitals 
(diffuse large cell 
lymphoma- DLCL) 
Radiochemotherapy: 
years: OS 
cyclophosphamide (CY) 
(60  mg/kg 
for 
2 
Overall – 51% 
(n=395) 
consecutive days) and 
(95% CI 46–56%) 
Median 
follow-up 
28 months 
TBI (9–12 Gy in  1-4 
fractions) (n=47) 
BEAM or BEAC =58% 
(95% CI 50–66%) 
Only 
chemotherapy: 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 38/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BEAM (n=164), 
CBV =40% 
BEAC (n=145) 
(95%CI 24–56%) 
CBV (n=39). 
CY-TBI =31% 
Colony-stimulating 
factors (n=273) (69%) 
(95% CI 18–44%) 
DFS 
Overall - 43% 
(95% CI 38–48%) 
Conclusion: 
Preparative regimens 
(HDC)  consisting  of 
chemotherapy-only 
seem more efficacious 
than 
CY-TBI 
as 
conditioning for DLCL, 
as 
indicated 
by 
improved  OS,  DFS 
and RFS. 
et  Multicenter 
Previously 
HDC+ASTC (n=98): 
Event 
free  survival 
Milpied 
al. (2004)  
randomized 
untreated, 
trial 
histologically 
CEEP; MC; BEAM 
proved aggressive 
lymphoma 
(n=n=197) 
CHOP (n=99) 
(see below) 
Median follow-up 4 
years 
rate median: 
HDC =55% 
CHOP =37% 
5 year survival rate: 
HDC =74% 
CHOP= 44% 
Overall response rate 
(RR); CR: 
HDC= 91%; 81% 
CHOP= 81%; 62% 
Conclusion: High-dose 
chemotherapy 
with 
autologous  stem-cell 
support  is  superior to 
CHOP in adults with 
disseminated 
Page 39/49 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aggressive lymphoma 
Sharma 
et  al.  Retrospective 
Relapsed 
or 
BEAM 
(n=34) 
2 year OS: 
(2013) 
study 
refractory 
NHL  or 
(NHL=26) 
LEAM (n=17) 
HL 
(N=51) 
Median 
follow-up 
=36.6 months 
BEAM = 61.7% 
LEAM = 62.7% 
EFS: 
BEAM =44.6% 
LEAM =41.1% 
Conclusion: 
Two regimens, BEAM 
and 
LEAM 
  are 
equivalent 
for  early 
peritransplant 
outcomes and survival 
Auger_Quittet 
Non- 
relapsed/refractory 
Z-BEAM  =BEAM  + 
2 years OS 
et al. (2014) 
comparative 
diffuse  large  B-cell 
radioimmunotherapy 
meta -analysis 
lymphoma 
with 
90Y-ibritumomab 
tiuxetan 
(Zevalin) 
84.5% (n=325) 
2 years PFS 
67.2% (n=285) 
Kirshey 
et  al.  prospective, 
Aggressive 
NHL 
Salvage/mobilization 
Primary – PFS: 
(2014) 
open-label, 
single-arm 
(aNHL): 
large 
diffuse 
regimen consisted of R- 
B-cell 
Dexa-BEAM:  rituximab 
aNHL  =  median 
– 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 40/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
multicentre 
lymphoma 
55, 
375  mg/m²  day  1, 
0.83 years 
phase II study 
mantle 
cell 
dexamethasone 24 mg 
lymphoma 
  7, 
t.i.d  p.o.,  days  1–10; 
follicular 
carmustine  60  mg/m² 
iNHL  =median  3.7 
years 
lymphoma 
(FL) 
i.v.,  day  2;  etoposide 
overall  response  rate 
grade 
3:    5, 
75  mg/m²  i.v.,  days  4– 
after  salvage  therapy 
indolent 
7; 
cytarabine 
200 
was  62%  for  aNHL 
Lymphoma (iNHL): 
mg/m²  b.i.d  i.v.,  days 
and  78% 
for 
iNHL 
FL grade 1–2: 29, 
4–7 
in 
2 
doses; 
patients. 
marginal   
zone 
melphalan  20  mg/m² 
lymphoma 6, 
i.v., day 3. 
Conclusion: 
R-DexaBEAM  followed 
by  HDT 
can 
be 
considered  a  valid 
salvage  option 
for 
NHL. 
Immunocytoma 1 
For 
high 
dose 
(n=103) 
radio/chemotherapy, 
two 
different 
conditioning 
regimens 
were  defined 
in 
the 
protocol: 
chemo- 
radiotherapy  R-TBI/Cy 
consisted of  rituximab 
375  mg/m²  i.v.  days  - 
7,  -2,  fractionated  total 
body irradiation with 12 
Gy,  days  -6  to  -4;  and 
cyclophosphamide 
60 
mg/kg 
bodyweight 
9bw0  i.v.,  days  -3  to  - 
2. 
The 
chemotherapy 
protocol 
used 
for 
conditioning  was  R- 
BEAM  (Caballero  et  al, 
1997): rituximab 375 
mg/m² i.v. days -8, -2, 
carmustine  300  mg/m² 
i.v., day -7; cytarabine 
400  mg/m²  b.i.d.  i.v., 
days 
-6 
to 
-3;  
etoposide 200 mg/m² 
i.v.  b.i.d.,  days  -6  to  - 
3;  melphalan 
140 
mg/m² i.v., day -2 
Caimi 
et al. 
Retrospective 
Median 
follow-up 
HDC+autologous HCT: 
4-year OS rates 
(2015) 
study 
39.4 months 
BEAM (carmustine, 300 
BEP =80.4% 
mg/m2, 
etoposide, 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 41/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cytarabine, 
and  BEAM = 72.3%, 
melphalan) (n=64) 
No 
statistically 
BEP  (carmustine  600 
significant differences 
mg/m2, etoposide, and 
in the OS and PFS of 
cisplatin) (n=65) 
non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphoma or Hodgkin 
lymphoma. 
Conclusion: 
BEP 
is 
a 
valid 
alternative to BEAM in 
autologous 
HCT. 
Although 
associated 
with  more  renal  and 
electrolytic  toxicities, 
BEP results in similar 
disease  control  and 
long-term survival as 
BEAM 
Truelove (2015)  Retrospective 
Aggressive  Non- 
BEAM-Campath 
- 
1 year 
study 
Hodgkin 
conditioned  allogeneic 
Lymphoma (n=46) 
SCT 
PFS = 41% 
OS =54% 
5 year 
PFS = 36% 
OS = 42% 
Exemption 
Bioequivalence testing with the reference product is not required under the provisions of the “Guideline on 
the Investigation of Bioequivalence” (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev.1) which states that “Bioequivalence 
studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous 
solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product”. 
The pharmaceutical form and mode of administration as well as the qualitative and quantitative composition 
of Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for solution for infusion is the same as of the reference 
product Carmubris 100 mg, powder and solvent for solution for infusion (Carmubris-Trockenstechampulle mit 
Lösungsmittel, 100 mg (Emcure Pharma UK, Ltd., UK)). 
The use of carmustine is well established. The Applicant has provided a justification for not submitting new 
clinical data. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 42/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Carmustine is a well-known active substance. As the product is administered as an aqueous i.v. solution 
the Applicant is not required to submit a bioequivalence study or to provide the results of clinical trials. 
Clinical  overview  on  the  clinical  pharmacology  is  adequate.  The  PK  of  carmustine  is  well  known  and 
satisfactory described by the Applicant. Overview based on literature review is appropriate and acceptable. 
Section 5.2 of SmPC is acceptable and in line with the originator’s. 
According to the ESMO guidelines current standard of care for patients with Glioblastoma Multiforme up to 
age 70 or fit elderly patients older than 70 years is a concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide in addition to 
radiotherapy. The Applicant has updated Clinical overview and included 8 publications covering period 2004- 
2015 regarding efficacy of carmustine in brain tumours. 
The Applicant updated the Clinical overview with 4 publications covering period 2007-2014 regarding 
efficacy of carmustine in Hodgkin’s disease. Referred publication by William et al (Clin Lymphoma Myeloma 
Leuk 13 (4), 417-423. 2013 Jun 15) regarding impact of conditioning regimen on outcome of 2-year 
Disease-Free Survivors of autologous stem cell transplantation for Hodgkin lymphoma was submitted to 
discuss the use of the product in this context. The Applicant also updated Clinical overview and included 10 
publications covering period 2001-2015 regarding efficacy of carmustine in Non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas. 
The  indications  with  reference  to  Hodgkin’s  and  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphomas  are  very  broad  considering  the 
current  clinical  use  of  the  product,  i.e.  as  part  of  a  conditioning  regimen  for  haematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplantation  (high  dose  chemotherapy/mini-BEAM)  which  is  a  standard  treatment  option  for 
relapsed/refractory disease. 
Pulmonary toxicity has been observed in up to 30% of patients. In cases where pulmonary toxicity started 
early (within 3 years of treatment), pulmonary infiltrates and/or pulmonary fibrosis occurred, some of which 
were fatal. The patients were between 22 months and 72 years old. Risk factors include smoking, 
respiratory disease, existing radiographic abnormalities, sequential or concomitant thoracic radiation, as 
well as combination with other active substances that can cause lung damage. The incidence of adverse 
reactions is probably dose-related; cumulative doses of 1200-1500 mg/m2have been associated with an 
increased likelihood of pulmonary fibrosis. During treatment, lung function tests (FVC, DLCO) should be 
performed regularly. Patients showing a baseline value of <70% of expected forced vital capacity or carbon 
monoxide diffusion capacity in these tests are at particular risk. 
Based on the conclusions of the results from the published pilot study of a French Society of Pediatric 
Oncology (SFOP) (Chastanger et al. 2007) in view of the high risk of pulmonary toxicity Carmustine Obvius 
should not be used in children and adolescents due to the high risk of pulmonary toxicity (See SmPC section 
4.4, 4.8. and 4.3). 
In patients having received carmustine in childhood or adolescence, cases of extremely delayed-onset 
pulmonary fibrosis (up to 17 years after treatment) have been described. Long-term follow-up observation 
of 17 patients who survived brain tumours in childhood showed that 8 of them succumbed to pulmonary 
fibrosis. Two of these 8 fatalities occurred within the first 3 years of treatment and 6 of them occurred 8-13 
years after treatment. The median age of patients who died on treatment was 2.5 years (1-12 years), the 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 43/49 
 
 
 
 
median age of long-term survivors on treatment was 10 years (5-16 years). All patients younger than 5 
years of age at the time of treatment died from pulmonary fibrosis; neither the carmustine dose nor an 
additional vincristine dose or spinal radiation had any influence on the fatal outcome. All remaining survivors 
available for follow-up were diagnosed with pulmonary fibrosis. Pulmonary toxicity also manifested in the 
post-marketing phase as pneumonitis and interstitial lung disease. 
The  European  Medicines  Agency  has  completed  a  review  of  carmustine  containing  medical  products  
pursuant  to  Article  107b  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  (PSUSA/00010349/201504).  The  Agency’s  Coordination 
Group  of  Mutual  Recognition  and  Decentralised  Procedures  for  Human  use  (CHDh)  on  December  16,  2015 
has  adopted  a  position  on  the  PSUR  for  carmustine  (powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  infusion)  - 
EMA/CMDh/819842/2015  –  requesting  update  of  product  information  to  update  Section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  
and Section 4 of the PL with information on pulmonary toxicity. There have been also publications regarding 
follow-up  data  for  the  patients  up  to  25  years  from  the  date  of  carmustine  treatment  from  a  long-term 
follow-up study. (O'Driscoll et al. Chest, Volume107, Issue 5, May 1995, Pages 1355–1357 and Lohani et al. 
Chest. 2004;126(3):1007.) 
Further, it is recommended that –although not generally requested for generics- periodic safety updates for 
Carmustine Obvius will be submitted as per the frequencies in the EURD list. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Carmustine Obvius and as the active substance 
does not differ in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was accepted by 
the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not 
considered necessary. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Pulmonary toxicity (Including in paediatric population) 
- 
-  Bone marrow toxicity 
-  Hepatotoxicity 
-  Nephrotoxicity 
-  Gastrointestinal toxicity including nausea and vomiting 
- 
-  CNS toxicity 
Injection site reaction including extravasation hazard 
Important potential risks 
-  Secondary malignancies 
-  Embryotoxicity and teratogenicity 
- 
Impaired fertility 
Missing information 
-  Use during lactation 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
There are no additional pharmacovigilance activities for this medicinal product. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 44/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product, which is in line 
with the reference medicinal product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Important identified risks: 
Pulmonary toxicity 
(including in paediatric 
population) 
SmPC sections: 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Bone marrow toxicity 
SmPC sections: 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 4.9 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Nephrotoxicity 
Gastrointestinal toxicity 
including nausea and 
vomiting 
SmPC sections: 4.4, 4.8, 4.9 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
SmPC sections: 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
SmPC section: 4.8 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Injection site reaction 
including extravasation 
hazard 
SmPC sections: 4.2, 4.8, 6.6 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
: CNS toxicity 
SmPC section: 4.8 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Important potential risks 
Secondary malignancies 
SmPC section: 4.4 
Embryotoxicity and 
teratogenicity 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
SmPC sections: 4.6, 4.8, 5.3 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Impaired fertility 
SmPC section: 4.6, 4.8, 5.3 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Additional risk 
minimisation measures 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 45/49 
 
 
 
Missing information 
Use during lactation 
Conclusion 
SmPC section: 4.3, 4.6 
The legal status of the product is: 
prescription only. 
Currently available data 
does not support the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation activities. 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 2.4 is acceptable. 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Carmustine BiCNU (Carmubris). The bridging report 
submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of carmustine [100 mg, powder and solvent for solution for 
infusion]. The reference product Carmubris (carmustine) is indicated for Brain tumors - glioblastoma, 
Brain-stem gliomas, medulloblastoma, astrocytoma and Ependymoblastomas; Second line treatment 
for NHL and Hodgkin’s disease; Tumours of the gastrointestinal system; Malignant melanoma in 
combination with other effective anti-neoplastic medicinal products; Multiple myeloma (in combination 
with a glucocorticoid such as prednisone). 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the provided clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 46/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Carmustine Obvius is not similar to Iclusig, Xaluprine , 
Imbruvica, Revlimid, Torisel , Ledaga, Venclyxto, Adcetris , Gazyvaro, Arzerra, Blincyto and Besponsa within 
the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200 (see Appendix 1). 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Carmustine Obvius is favourable in the following indications: 
Carmustine is effective in the following malignant neoplasms as a single agent or in combination with other 
antineoplastic agents and/or other therapeutic measures (radiotherapy, surgery): 
•  Brain tumours (glioblastoma, brain-stem gliomas, medulloblastoma, astrocytoma and ependymoma), 
brain metastases. 
•  Secondary therapy in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and Hodgkin’s disease. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
- Please note this constitutes a deviation from the MA of the originator product (medical prescription). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 47/49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result ofan 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 48/49 
 
 
 
References 
DGHO: Deutsche Gesellschaft für Hämatologie und Medizinische Onkologie e.V. Pressemittelung. Weltweit nur 
ein Hersteller und jetzt dramatische Preissteigerung bei Krebsmedikament. Berlin, 30. Januar 2015. 
http://www.dgho.de/informationen/presse/pressemitteilungen/weltweit-nur-ein-hersteller-und-jetzt- 
dramatische-preissteigerung-bei-krebsmedikament 
Guittard P. Lettre d'information destinée aux pharmaciens hospitaliers et prescripteurs Concernés. Cournon 
d’Auvergne, le 24 novembre 2014. 
Guittard P. Lettre d'information destinée aux pharmaciens hospitaliers. Objet: rupture de stock en BICNU® 
(carmustine). Cournon d’Auvergne, le jeudi 27 août 2015. 
NHS (Surrey, West Sussex and Hampshire Cancer Network): Taylor S, Tucker C, Laurie A. Mini-BEAM. 
Version 4. Review date: May 2015. 
Schmitz N, Pfistner B, Sextro M, et al; German Hodgkin's Lymphoma Study Group; Lymphoma Working Party 
of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Aggressive conventional chemotherapy 
compared with high-dose chemotherapy with autologous haemopoietic stem-cell transplantation for relapsed 
chemosensitive Hodgkin's disease: a randomised trial. Lancet. 2002 Jun 15;359(9323):2065-71. 
Tirelli U, Berretta M, Spina M, Michieli M, Lazzarini R. Oncologic drug shortages also in Italy. Eur Rev Med 
Pharmacol Sci. 2012 Jan;16(1):138-9 
Assessment report 
EMA/CHMP/88371/2018 
Page 49/49 
 
