Summary of risk management plan for Carmustine 
Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for 
solution for infusion (carmustine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent 
for concentrate for solution for infusion. The RMP details important risks of Carmustine Obvius 100 mg 
powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate 
for solution for infusion’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion’s summary of 
product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and patients on how Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for 
solution for infusion should be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Carmustine Obvius 
100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion’s RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion is authorised for 
the following malignant neoplasms as a single agent or in combination with other antineoplastic agents 
and/or other therapeutic measures (radiotherapy, surgery): 
• 
Brain  tumours  (glioblastoma,  Brain-stem  gliomas,  medulloblastoma,  astrocytoma  and 
ependymoma), brain metastases. 
• 
Secondary therapy in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and Hodgkin’s disease. 
Obvius  Investment  B.V.  aims  to  include  the  following  new  indication  to  the  existing  marketing 
authorisation for Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion: 
As conditioning treatment prior to autologous haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in 
malignant haematological diseases (Hodgkin’s disease / Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma) (see SmPC for the 
full indication). 
It  contains  carmustine  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  intravenously  after  reconstitution  and 
dilution. 
Further information about the evaluation of Carmustine Obvius’s benefits can be found in Carmustine 
Obvius’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/carmustine-obvius 
 
 
 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Carmustine  Obvius  100  mg  powder  and  solvent  for  concentrate  for  solution  for 
infusion,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more 
about Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion’s risks, 
are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion 
are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that 
the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or 
potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of 
Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Pulmonary toxicity (including in paediatric population) 
Bone marrow toxicity 
Hepatotoxicity 
Nephrotoxicity 
Important potential risks 
Embryotoxicity and teratogenicity 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk 1: Pulmonary toxicity (including in paediatric population) 
 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Numerous  studies  in  lymphomas,  malignant  gliomas  and  breast 
the medicine 
cancer  have  established  a  strong  correlation  between  1,3-bis[2-
chloroethyl]-1-nitrosurea (BCNU) dose and pulmonary toxicity. The 
incidence  of  pulmonary  toxicity  is  10%  when  cumulative  BCNU 
doses  are  800  mg/m2  as  a  single  agent,  but  in  combination  with 
other cytotoxic drugs, particularly cyclophosphamide, the tolerated 
dose is lower. Several studies have demonstrated that doses of 600 
mg/m2  or  higher  are  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of 
pneumonitis, and for many years 450 mg/m2 has been considered 
the upper dose limit for BCNU and is the standard dose used in the 
CBV regimen (cyclophosphamide, BCNU, etoposide) [Till, 2012]. 
Pulmonary  fibrosis  is  a  severe  complication  typically  developed 
months or years after repetitive doses of 1,3-bis[2-chloroethyl]-1-
nitrosurea (BCNU or carmustine) and the risk is increased when the 
cumulative dose is greater than 1200 mg/m2 [Shen, 2004]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Some risk factors, such as history of irradiation to lung, cigarette 
smoking, female gender and high doses of product, are known to 
be associated with BCNU-related pulmonary injury [Shen, 2004]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  includes  a  warning  stating  that 
pulmonary toxicity occurs with a frequency ranging up to 30% in 
therapy  with 
patients 
carmustine (especially with 600 mg/m2) prior to haematopoietic 
carmustine.  High-dose 
receiving 
stem cell transplantation has been shown to increase the risk for 
incidence  and  severity  of  pulmonary  toxicities.  Therefore,  in 
patients  with  other  risks  for  pulmonary  toxicities,  use  of 
carmustine  needs  to  be  weighed  against  the  risks.  As  a 
precautionary measure, baseline pulmonary function studies and 
chest X-ray should be conducted along with frequent pulmonary 
function tests during treatment. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  states  that  before  treatment  and  regularly 
during treatment the patient’s lung function must be tested. This 
section  of  the  PL  also  states  that  since  an  X-ray  of  the  chest 
region and lung function test will be conducted before treatment 
is  started.  In  addition,  high-dose  treatment  with  Carmustine 
Obvius (up to 600 mg/m2) is only performed in combination with 
subsequent  stem  cell  transplantation.  Such  a  higher  dose  can 
increase frequency or severity of lung, kidney and heart toxicities 
as well as infections. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription medicine. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
Important identified risk 2: Bone marrow toxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Myelotoxicity is one of the most common treatment-related adverse 
the medicine 
events  for  patients  receiving  systemic  antineoplastic  therapy  or 
radiotherapy 
to  bone  marrow–producing 
regions.  Myeloid 
cytopenias—including 
neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia, 
and 
anaemia—are  the  most 
frequently  seen  manifestations  of 
treatment-related  myelotoxicity  and  one  of  the  most  common 
reasons for dose modifications, dose delays, or discontinuation of 
therapy,  potentially  limiting  therapeutic  benefit.  Lymphopenia, 
although less common, presents unique challenges and may place 
the  patient  at  increased  risk  for  opportunistic  and  often  life-
threatening infections [Kurtin, 2012]. 
A  serious  and  frequent  adverse  effect  associated  with  systemic 
administration of carmustine is delayed hematologic toxicity, which 
is cumulative and usually occurs 4-6 weeks after administration of 
the  drug.  Thrombocytopenia  is  generally  the  most  severe 
hematologic  effect,  appearing  and  subsiding  earlier  than  other 
hematologic 
toxicities; 
however, 
both 
leukopenia 
and 
thrombocytopenia 
may 
be 
dose-limiting 
toxicities. 
Thrombocytopenia usually is evident at approximately 4 weeks and 
persists for about 1-2 weeks, and leukopenia usually is evident at 
approximately  5-6  weeks  and  persists  for  1-2  weeks.  Following 
repeated 
doses 
of 
carmustine, 
however, 
cumulative 
myelosuppression  manifested  as  more  depressed  indices  or  as 
more prolonged suppression may occur. Anaemia also occurs, but 
generally is less frequent and less severe than other hematologic 
toxicities [McEvoy, 2015]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Factors  associated  with  high  risk  for  chemotherapy-induced 
myelotoxicity include: 
- 
Host-related  factors:  age  >  65  years,  female  gender, 
Eastern  Cooperative  Oncology  Group 
(ECOG) 
Performance 
Status 
>1, 
malnutrition, 
immunosuppression,  comorbidities  such  as  chronic 
obstructive  pulmonary  disease,  diabetes, 
renal 
impairment  or  liver  disease,  open  wounds  or  recent 
surgery,  active 
infection  or  pre-existing 
fungal 
infections and drug-drug interactions. 
- 
Disease-  and  treatment-related  factors:  high  tumour 
burden /extensive disease, history of chemotherapy or 
radiation,  pre-existing  cytopenias,  bone  marrow 
involvement with tumour, type of chemotherapy, dose 
intensity 
of 
chemotherapy, 
elevated 
lactate 
dehydrogenase 
level, 
hypoalbulinemia, 
hyperbilirubinemia  or  haematological  malignancy 
hospitalization [Kurtin, 2012]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
According to section 4.3 of the SmPC, product is contraindicated 
in  case  of  severe  bone  marrow  depression.  In  addition,  section 
4.4  of  the  SmPC  includes  a  warning  stating  that  bone  marrow 
toxicity is a common and severe toxic adverse reaction in patients 
receiving  carmustine.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  complete 
blood count should be monitored frequently for at least six weeks 
after  a  dose.  In  case  of  a  decreased  number  of  circulating 
platelets,  leucocytes  or  erythrocytes  either  from  previous 
chemotherapy  or  other  cause  the  dose  should  be  adjusted. 
Repeat  doses  of  Carmustine  Obvius  should  not  be  given  more 
frequently  than  every  six  weeks.  The  bone  marrow  toxicity  of 
carmustine  is  cumulative  and  therefore  the  dosage  adjustment 
must be considered on the basis of nadir blood counts from prior 
doses. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  states  that  product  must  not  be  used  in 
patients suffering from suppression of blood cell formation in the 
bone marrow. This section of the PL also states that the doctor 
will  monitor  blood  counts  of  the  patient  weekly  for  at  least  6 
weeks  after  a  dose  and  that  product  would  not  be  given  more 
frequently than every 6 weeks. The dosage will be confirmed with 
the blood count. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription medicine. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important identified risk 3: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Several  studies  have  been  conducted  with 
the  different 
the medicine 
concentrations  of  carmustine  used  on  rats  as  well  as  humans 
resulting in hepatotoxic effects like lipoperoxidation, fluctuations in 
level  of  bilirubin,  cholestasis,  veno-occlusive  liver  diseases  and 
hepatocytes cell-cycle alterations. In several types of cancers like 
leukaemia or glioblastoma, carmustine either singly or with some 
other  agents  is  given  to  patients  which  may  resulting  to  hepatic 
dysfunction [Singh, 2018]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pre-existing  medical  problems,  tumour, 
immunosuppression, 
hepatitis  viruses  and  other  infections,  and  nutritional  deficiencies 
or total parenteral nutrition all may affect a host’s susceptibility to 
liver injury [King, 2001]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC includes a warning stating that hepatic 
function  should  be  checked  prior  to  treatment  and  regularly 
monitored with carmustine therapy. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  states  that  before  treatment  and  regularly 
during treatment the patient’s liver function must be tested. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription medicine. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important identified risk 4: Nephrotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Nitrosureas  are  less  likely  than  other  chemotherapeutic  drugs  to 
the medicine 
cause  acute  kidney  injury,  but  they  lead  to  progressive  chronic 
kidney disease over a period of months to years because of chronic 
tubulointerstitial  nephritis.  Nitrosureas  are  generally  associated 
with dose-dependent nephrotoxicity that is clinically characterized 
by  slowly  progressive  chronic  kidney  disease.  Biopsy  studies 
demonstrate chronic changes including tubular atrophy, interstitial 
fibrosis and glomerulosclerosis [Shirali, 2014]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patient-related risk factors common to all nephrotoxins and include 
age older than 60 years, underlying renal insufficiency (e.g., GFR 
of less than 60 mL per minute per 1.73 m2), intravascular volume 
depletion,  exposure  to  multiple  nephrotoxins,  diabetes,  heart 
failure, and sepsis [Naughton, 2008]. 
Multiple  factors  may  contribute  to  the  kidney  dysfunction 
associated with chemotherapy in patients with malignant diseases: 
• 
Patient-Specific Factors 
o  Female gender 
o  Age > 65 years 
o  Nephrotic syndrome/hypoalbuminemia 
o  Obstructive jaundice 
o  Acute/chronic kidney disease 
  Cancer-related kidney disease 
  Other causes of kidney disease 
o  True or effective volume depletion 
  Decreased glomerular filtration rate 
  Decline in urine flow rates 
o  Metabolic perturbations 
  Urine pH 
Immune response genes 
o 
o  Pharmacogenetics favouring drug toxicity 
 
 
 
Polymorphisms  in  hepatic  and  kidney  CYP450 
system, kidney transporters 
•  Kidney-Specific Factors 
o  High rate of blood delivery (20-25% of cardiac output) 
o  Biotransformation  of  substances  to  reactive  oxygen 
species 
o  High metabolic rate of tubular cells 
o  Proximal tubular uptake of toxins 
  Apical uptake via endocytosis/pinocytosis 
  Basolateral 
transport  via  organic  anion 
transporter and organic cation transporter 
•  Drug-Specific Factors 
o  Prolonged drug exposure 
o  Direct  drug  or  metabolite  cytotoxicity  of  the  drug  or 
metabolite 
o  Drug (or other nephrotoxin) combination that enhances 
nephrotoxicity 
o 
Insoluble  parent  drug  or  metabolite  with  intratubular 
crystal precipitation [Shirali, 2014]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
According to section 4.3 of the SmPC, product is contraindicated 
in  case  of  severe  (end-stage)  renal  impairment.  In  addition, 
section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  includes  a  warning  stating  that  upon 
high-dose therapy with carmustine, the risk and severity for renal 
toxicity rises. Renal function should be checked prior to treatment 
and regularly monitored with carmustine therapy. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  states  that  product  must  not  be  used  in 
patients  suffering  from  higher-grade  kidney  dysfunction.  This 
section of the PL also states that before treatment and regularly 
during treatment the patient’s renal function must be tested. In 
addition, high-dose treatment with Carmustine Obvius (up to 600 
mg/m2) is only performed in combination with subsequent stem 
cell transplantation. Such a higher dose can increase frequency 
or severity of kidney toxicity. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription medicine. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk 1: Embryotoxicity and teratogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
Carmustine was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats and 
the medicine 
embryotoxic in rabbits at dose levels equivalent to the human 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pregnant patients. 
dose. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section  4.6  of  the  SmPC  includes  a  warning  stating  that 
carmustine is embryotoxic in rats and rabbits and teratogenic in 
rats  when  given  in  doses  equivalent  to  the  human  dose. 
Therefore,  carmustine  should  not  be  administered  to  patients 
who  are  pregnant.  As  a  precautionary  measure,  women  should 
use effective contraception to avoid becoming pregnant while on 
treatment  and  for  at  least  6  months  after  treatment.  Male 
patients  should  be  advised  to  use  adequate  contraceptive 
measures while on treatment with carmustine and for at least 6 
months  after  treatment.  If  Carmustine  Obvius  is  used  during 
pregnancy,  or  if  the  patient  becomes  pregnant  while  taking 
(receiving) Carmustine Obvius, the patient should be apprised of 
the potential hazard to the foetus. 
Section 2 of the PL states that Carmustine Obvius should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  because  it  may  harm  the  unborn  baby. 
Therefore, this medicine should not normally be administered to 
pregnant women. If used during pregnancy, the patient must be 
aware  of  the  potential  risk  to  the  unborn  baby.  Women  of 
childbearing potential are advised to use effective contraception 
to  avoid  becoming  pregnant  whilst  being  treated  with  this 
medicine and for at least 6 months after treatment. Male patients 
should use adequate contraceptive measures while on treatment 
with Carmustine Obvius and for at least 6 months after treatment 
to prevent their partners becoming pregnant. 
Legal status: Restricted medical prescription medicine. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Carmustine Obvius 100 mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Carmustine  Obvius  100  mg  powder  and  solvent  for  concentrate  for 
solution for infusion. 
 
