EMA/233731/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005095/0000 
Carvykti (ciltacabtagene autoleucel) 
An overview of Carvykti and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Carvykti and what is it used for? 
Carvykti is a medicine used to treat adults with multiple myeloma (a cancer of the bone marrow) when 
the cancer has come back (relapsed) and has not responded to treatment (refractory).  
It is used in adults who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory 
agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti
CD38 antibody and whose disease has worsened since the 
last treatment.  
‑
Multiple myeloma is rare, and Carvykti was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 28 February 2020. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3202252  
Carvykti contains the active substance ciltacabtagene autoleucel, consisting of genetically modified 
white blood cells. 
How is Carvykti used? 
Carvykti can be given to patients only by trained doctors in specialist hospitals. 
Carvykti is prepared using the patient’s own white blood cells which are extracted from the blood, 
genetically modified in the laboratory and then given back to the patient as a single infusion (drip) into 
a vein. Carvykti must only be given to the patient whose cells were used to make the medicine. 
Before having Carvykti, the patient should have a short course of chemotherapy to clear away their 
existing white blood cells, and just before the infusion they are given paracetamol and an 
antihistamine medicine to reduce the risk of reactions to the infusion. 
A medicine called tocilizumab (or a suitable alternative when tocilizumab is unavailable due to a 
shortage), and emergency equipment must be available in case the patient has a potentially serious 
side effect called cytokine release syndrome (see description under risks section below). 
Patients should be closely monitored for side effects daily for 14 days after the Carvykti infusion and 
then periodically for an additional two weeks. Patients are advised to stay close to a specialist hospital 
for at least four weeks after the Carvykti infusion.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Carvykti, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Carvykti work? 
Carvykti contains ciltacabtagene autoleucel which consist of the patient’s own T cells (a type of white 
blood cell) that have been modified genetically in the laboratory, so that they make a protein called 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). CAR can attach to a protein called B cell maturation antigen (BCMA) 
that is present on the surface of multiple myeloma cells. 
When Carvykti is given to the patient, the modified T cells attach to BCMA and then kill the myeloma 
cells, thereby helping to clear the multiple myeloma from the body. 
What benefits of Carvykti have been shown in studies? 
A main study showed that a single infusion (drip) of Carvykti was effective at clearing cancer cells in 
patients with multiple myeloma that had returned and did not respond to three or more previous 
treatments. After one and a half year, about 84% of patients (95 out of 113) had a good response to 
the treatment and in 69% (78 out of 113) the signs of cancer had disappeared (complete response). 
Carvykti was not compared to another medicine in this study. 
These results were better than those seen in other studies of patients receiving standard treatments 
for multiple myeloma. 
What are the risks associated with Carvykti? 
The most common side effects with Carvykti (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils), lymphopenia and leucopenia (low levels of lymphocytes or 
other white blood cells), anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood 
platelets), hypotension (low blood pressure), pain of the muscles and bones, high level of liver 
enzymes, upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection), diarrhoea, hypokalaemia (low 
level of potassium), hypocalcaemia (low levels of calcium), hypophosphataemia (low levels of 
phosphate in the blood), nausea, headache, cough, tachycardia (rapid heartbeat), encephalopathy (a 
brain disorder), oedema (fluid retention), decreased appetite, chills, fever, tiredness, as well as 
cytokine release syndrome (a potentially life-threatening condition that can cause fever, vomiting, 
shortness of breath, pain and low blood pressure).  
The most common serious side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 100 people) are cytokine 
release syndrome, thrombocytopenia, febrile neutropenia (low blood levels of neutrophils with fever), 
pneumonia (infections of the lungs), sepsis (blood poisoning) and a neurological disorder called ICANS 
(immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome) which may include problems with speech 
and writing, confusion and depressed level of consciousness. 
People who cannot have chemotherapy to clear away their existing white blood cells must not receive 
Carvykti. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Carvykti, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Carvykti authorised in the EU? 
Despite the availability of an increasing number of treatments for multiple myeloma, the disease 
eventually usually comes back and becomes incurable. In a main study, a single infusion of Carvykti 
Carvykti (ciltacabtagene autoleucel)  
EMA/233731/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
led to clinically meaningful responses rates in multiple myeloma patients whose cancer had come back 
and did not respond to previous treatments.  
Serious side effects, particularly cytokine release syndrome and ICANS, can occur and the product 
information contains advice for managing them. The European Medicines Agency decided that 
Carvykti’s benefits are greater than its risks and that it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
Carvykti has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as 
necessary.  
What information is still awaited for Carvykti? 
Since Carvykti has been given conditional authorisation, to confirm its benefits and risks, the company 
that markets Carvykti will provide final follow up data from the main study and data from an ongoing 
study comparing Carvykti with standard chemoimmunotherapy treatment in patients whose multiple 
myeloma has come back and has not responded to previous treatment. The company must also carry 
out studies to collect more information on the long-term safety of Carvykti. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Carvykti? 
The company that markets Carvykti must ensure that hospitals where Carvykti is given have 
appropriate expertise, facilities and training. Tocilizumab, or suitable alternatives in case of its 
unavailability due to shortage, must be available for the management of cytokine release syndrome.  
The company must also provide educational materials for healthcare professionals and patients about 
possible side effects, especially cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Carvykti have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Carvykti are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Carvykti are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Carvykti 
Carvykti received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 May 2022. 
Further information on Carvykti can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Carvykti 
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
Carvykti (ciltacabtagene autoleucel)  
EMA/233731/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
