European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/461825/2009 
FINAL ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Cayston 
International Nonproprietary Name: aztreonam 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000996 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
Submission of the dossier .........................................................................................................3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product...........................................................................3 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure...........................................................................4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
2.8 
2.9 
Introduction...............................................................................................................................5 
Quality aspects..........................................................................................................................7 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................11 
Clinical aspects .......................................................................................................................17 
Pharmacovigilance..................................................................................................................50 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation .......................................50 
Re-examination of the CHMP opinion of 19 March 2009......................................................54 
Pharmacovigilance..................................................................................................................68 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation following re-
examination.............................................................................................................................73 
2/76 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Gilead  Sciences  International  Ltd.  submitted  on  7  March  2008  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised 
procedure  for  aztreonam  lysine  (AZLI),  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product 
EU/3/04/204  on  21  June  2004.    Aztreonam  lysine  (inhalation  use)  received  orphan  designation,  for 
treatment  of  gram  negative  bacterial  lung  infection  in  CF.  The  sponsorship  was  transferred  from 
MoRa  Pharm  GmbH  to  PAREXEL  International  Limited,  United  Kingdom,  in  July  2005  and 
subsequently to Gilead Sciences International Ltd, United Kingdom, in May 2007. 
The calculated prevalence of this condition was 13 per 100,000 EU population. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. 
The applicant  applied  for Conditional  Marketing  Authorization for  AZLI  Article  3(1)  of  Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004 Article 4 of Commission Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
The  applicant  requested  the  following  indication:  “To  improve  pulmonary  function  and  respiratory 
symptoms for the management of CF patients aged 6 years and older with Pseudomonas aeruginosa”.  
Protocol Assistance: 
The  applicant  received  Protocol  Assistance  from  the  CHMP  on  14  October  2005.  The  Protocol 
Assistance pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: United States, Canada, Australia, Switzerland 
and Turkey. 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:   Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Co-Rapporteur: Patrick Salmon 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 7 March 2008. 
The procedure started on 26 March 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  12  June 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 
June 2008.  
During the meeting on 24 July 2008, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 25 
July 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  19 
September 2008. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 31 October 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20 November 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
16 January 2009 
3/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteur’s circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 February 2009. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  17  February  2009,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
The  Rapporteur’s  circulated  an  updated  Joint  Assessment  Report  to  the  applicant’s  Post  Oral 
Hearing on to all CHMP members on 12 March 2009. 
During the meeting on 16-19 March 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a negative opinion by majority votes 
for granting a conditional Marketing Authorisation to Cayston on 19 March 2009. 
1.3 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
CoRapporteur:  Pieter Neels 
Pierre Demolis 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The  applicant  submitted  written  notice  to  the  EMEA  on  26  March  2009  to  request  a 
re-examination of the CHMP negative opinion for Cayston of 19 March 2009. 
During  its  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  appointed  Pierre  Demolis  as  Rapporteur 
and Pieter Neels as Co-Rapporteur for the re-examination procedure. 
The  detailed  grounds  for  the  re-examination  request  were  submitted  by  the  applicant  on  27 
April 2009. The re-examination procedure started on 28 April 2009. 
The  Rapporteur's  Assessment  Report  on  the  detailed  grounds  for  the  re-examination  was 
circulated on 2 June 2009. The Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report on the detailed grounds for 
the re-examination was circulated on 1 June 2009. 
The Rapporteurs’ Joint Assessment Report on the detailed grounds for the re-examination was 
circulated on 10 June 2009.  
During  a  meeting  of  the  CHMP  Scientific  Advisory  Group  on  Anti-infectives  (SAG-Anti-
infectives) on 16 June 2009, experts were convened to address questions raised by the CHMP. 
During this meeting the applicant presented an oral explanation. A report of this meeting was 
forwarded to the CHMP.  
During the CHMP meeting on 22-25 June 2009, the grounds for refusal were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During the meeting on 22-25 June 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a final positive Opinion by majority 
votes  for  granting  a  conditional  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Cayston  on  25  June  2009.  The 
applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the specific obligations and follow-up measures 
to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 24 June 2009. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded, in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 21 September 2009. 
4/76 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Cystic  fibrosis  is an  autosomal  recessive  disorder caused  by  mutations  in the  gene  encoding  for  the 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a protein that acts as a chloride channel. 
Disruption  of  the  sodium  and  chloride  ion  transport  mechanism  of  epithelial  cells,  associated  with 
water  transport  abnormalities  results  in  abnormally  viscous  secretions  in  different  exocrine  tissues, 
mainly  the  respiratory  tract,  pancreas,  gastrointestinal  tract  and  exocrine  glands.    In  Europe 
approximately 25,000 people are affected by CF. 
In  the  respiratory  tract  the  disorder  results  in  progressive,  obstructive  pulmonary  disease.  The 
abnormally viscous mucus interferes with the mucociliary transport mechanism normally responsible 
for clearance of bacteria and other organisms from the airways. This makes CF patients particularly 
susceptible to pulmonary infections caused by bacterial pathogens such as P. aeruginosa, as well as 
Burkholderia  cepacia,  and  Stenotrophomonas  maltophilia.      Pseudomonas  infections  are  usually 
established  in  the  first  decade  of  life.  Patients  infected  with  P.  aeruginosa  experience  episodes  of 
acute pulmonary exacerbation, characterized by worsening respiratory symptoms and acute decline in 
lung  function.  The  repeated  episodes  of  infection  and  associated  inflammation  cause  progressive 
damage  of  the  lungs;  P.  aeruginosa  is  rarely  eradicated.  This  chronic  infection  is  associated  with 
reduced life expectancy.  
The current management of the pulmonary infections in CF patients is comprised of early treatment 
with  a  variety  of  therapies  in  an  effort  to  prevent  exacerbations  or  management  without 
hospitalisation.  It  includes  in  addition  to  antibiotics  a  variety  of  therapies  such  as  bronchodilators, 
mucolytic and anti-inflammatory agents and airway clearance techniques.  
Intravenous  antibiotic  treatment,  usually  given  for  2  weeks,  is  the  standard  therapy  for  pulmonary 
exacerbations in patients with chronic lung infection by P. aeruginosa.  There are two main treatment 
strategies that are widely used for the management of chronic P. aeruginosa lung infection in people 
with  CF:  The  first  approach  is  giving  regular  courses  of  intravenous  antibiotics  or  inhalational 
antibiotics;  the  second  approach  is  “on  demand”  i.e,  prompt  treatment  of  acute  exacerbations  as 
determined by clinical or radiological findings or deterioration in lung function parameters. 
There is insufficient evidence to determine whether regular maintenance antibiotic treatment was more 
effective than treatment “on demand” in maintaining lung function in CF patients based on the limited 
number of randomised comparisons (and studied patients)1. In both cases IV therapy was the mainstay 
in  the;  patients  could  receive  concomitant  treatments  such  as  nebulised  antibiotics  (25-40%)2,  oral 
anti-staphylococcal  antibiotics  and  regular  inhaled  bronchodilators  in  a  balanced  fashion.    “On 
demand treatment” does not seem to result in significant reduction in number of courses of treatment 
when compared to regular treatment. 
Chronic suppressive treatment with inhalational antibiotics, in particular tobramycin nebuliser solution 
[TNS, TOBI, approved in the EU via the Mutual Recognition procedure in recent years] belongs now 
to the standard therapy in the management of CF patients with chronic pulmonary infection due to P. 
aeruginosa.    The  recommended  dose  of  TOBI  is  300mg  twice  daily  (morning  and  evening)  for  28 
days.  After  28  days  of  therapy,  patients  must  stop  treatment  for  the  next  28  days;  the  rationale  for 
intermittent  dosing  is  to  reduce  the  potential  for  antimicrobial  resistance  caused  by  continuous 
exposure  to  drug.    IV  antibiotics  are  usually  reserved  for  the  treatment  of  acute  exacerbations  or 
infections that fail to respond to combined oral and nebulized treatment. As a result of progress in CF 
1 Breen L, Aswani N. Elective versus symptomatic intravenous antibiotic therapy for cystic fibrosis. Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev 2009;4:CD002767, doi:10.1002/14651858. 
2 Elborn JS, Prescott RJ, Stack BHR,GoodchildMC, Bates J, Pantin C, et al.Elective versus symptomatic antibiotic treatment 
in cystic fibrosis patients with chronic Pseudomonas infection of the lungs. Thorax 2000;55(5):355–8. 
5/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
care, the demographics of the CF population have evolved. The mean age of CF patients has increased 
to 17 years in the EU3. However, chronic treatment with antibiotics including inhalational tobramycin 
and  systemic  beta-lactams  is  associated  with  increased  risk  of  resistance  development4.    Additional 
options for inhalational antibiotics in the target population are needed. 
Aztreonam  belongs  to  a  different  antibiotic  class  than  tobramycin,  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
aztreonam is unlike that of the aminoglycosides, and does not appear to contribute to the emergence of 
aminoglycoside-resistant  organisms.  Intravenous  therapy  with  aztreonam  has  also  been  used  in  the 
treatment  of  acute  infectious  exacerbations  in  CF  patients;  however,  the  reported  trials  were  rather 
small.  Moreover,  aztreonam  has  activity  against  aminoglycoside-resistant  PA.  Aztreonam  is  highly 
active  against  most  aerobic  gram-negative  bacteria including  Pseudomonas  species;  it  has  no  useful 
use against gram-positive infections.  Aztreonam activity is not significantly inhibited by sputum in the 
CF lung. By comparison, the activity of aminoglycosides is known to be antagonized by sputum.  
Aztreonam  Lysine  75  mg  Powder  and  solvent  for  Nebuliser  Solution  is  a  novel  formulation  of  the 
monobactam  antibiotic  aztreonam,  developed  by  Gilead  for  aerosol  administration.  Aztreonam  has 
been  approved  for  IV  administration  (Azactam)  in  the  EU  in  the  1980’s.  The  approved  formulation 
contains  approximately  780  mg  arginine  per  gram  of  aztreonam.  However,  aerosolized  arginine  has 
been  tested  as  a  mucolytic  in  CF  patients,  and  was  shown  to  be  unsafe,  resulting  in  inflammatory 
adverse  reactions  when  inhaled  by  CF  patients. The applicant  developed  a  lysine  salt  of  aztreonam, 
Aztreonam  lysine  (AZLI)  in  order  to  eliminate  the  inflammatory  component  of  the  IV  (arginine 
containing)  formulation,  making  it  suitable  for  airway  administration,  while  preserving  its 
antimicrobial activity against P. aeruginosa. 
AZLI  is  administered  with  the  eFlow®  family  of  electronic  nebulizers  (Altera)  with  a  handset 
customized  for  the  delivery  of  AZLI.  The  Altera  is  a  nebulizer  that  uses  a  vibrating  perforated 
membrane  to  generate  the aerosol.  Conventional  nebulizers  use  pneumatic  processes to  generate the 
aerosol, requiring bulky compressors or a compressed air source. The Altera creates an aerosol using a 
vibrating  membrane  that  has  over  4,000  holes.  The  membrane  is  driven  by  a  piezoelectric  crystal, 
allowing the nebulizer to be battery powered and portable. 
The  CTD  includes  a  review  of  published literature relevant to  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics, 
and toxicology of aztreonam. 
The  originally  sought  therapeutic  indication  for  Aztreonam  Lysine  75  mg  powder  and  solvent  for 
nebulizer was “Cayston is indicated to improve pulmonary function and respiratory symptoms for the 
management of CF patients aged 6 years and older with Pseudomonas aeruginosa”.  
The revised sought indication is: 
“A  28-day  course  of  Cayston  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  airway  infections  due  to 
Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  patients  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  aged  18  years  and  older  to  improve 
pulmonary function and respiratory symptoms.” 
The primary support for this indication is based on two single courses, placebo-controlled studies; a 
multiple course, comparative, active controlled study is ongoing. 
During  the  oral  hearing,  the  applicant  presented  the  view  that  proposed  28-day  indication  for  AZLI 
would  be  consistent  with  the  “on-demand”  treatment  paradigm.  According  to  the  applicant,  “On-
demand” options include IV aminoglycosides and beta-lactams in 2-4 week treatments; 28-day course 
3 European Cystic Fibrosis Society, Kerem E, et al. The European Cystic Fibrosis Registry Report on 2003 Data, Summary, 
2006: 2 p. 
4 C A. Merlo et al. Chest. 2007; 132:562-568. Incidence and Risk Factors for Multiple Antibiotic-Resistant Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in Cystic Fibrosis 
6/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
of  TNS  also  commonly  being  employed.  PO  ciprofloxacin  in  2-3  week  treatments  is  marginally 
effective. 3% absolute improvement FEV1 is considered clinically important. 
The applicant claimed that patients in the provided pivotal studies were tested in a setting according to 
the “on demand” treatment strategy and the observed results were clinically important. However, the 
CHMP questioned this claim (see inclusion criteria and benefit-risk discussion). 
The recommended dosage regimen is subsequently changed from both adults and paediatric patients 6 
years of age and older to adults only. 
One reconstituted single-use vial administered (by inhalation over a 2 to 3 minute period) three times 
daily using the Altera nebuliser for a 28-day course.  
Furthermore, the following additional changes are included; 
“Doses should be taken at least 4 hours apart. 
Multiple  course,  controlled  efficacy  data  are  not  yet  available,  see section 5.1.    Additional  courses, 
beyond  the  initial  28-day  course,  should  be  considered  only  at  the  discretion  of  the  physician.    If 
additional courses are prescribed, at least a 28 day off period between courses is recommended. 
Paediatric population 
Cayston is not recommended for use in children and adolescents (i.e. patients < 18 years) as the safety 
and efficacy of the drug has not been fully established in this patient population”. 
Cayston  is  only  for  inhalation  use  and  not  for  oral,  intravenous,  subcutaneous,  intramuscular,  or 
intrathecal use. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Cayston is presented as powder and solvent for nebuliser solution containing 75 mg of aztreonam as 
active  substance.  For  the  lyophilised  powder  the  ingredients  are  lysine  monohydrate,  water  for 
injection and for the saline solution 0.17% sodium chloride and water for injection. 
The  active  substance  is  lyophilized  and  must  be  reconstituted  with  sterile  saline  (0.17%  sodium 
chloride)  diluent  to  adjust  osmolality  prior  to  inhalation.  The  reconstituted  solution  has  to  be 
administered  with  a  specific  device,  a  Nebuliser  Handset  and  aerosol  head  connected  to  an  eFlow 
control unit. The device is not part of the medicinal product and needs to be provided separately. 
The primary container for the dry powder consists of sterile, depyrogenated, 2 ml type I amber glass 
vial  and  a  siliconised  gray  butyl  lyophilisation  stopper  with  a  piece  tear-off  seal.  The  primary 
container  for  the  diluent  consists  of  a  blow/fill/seal  container  that  is  formed  of  low  density 
polyethylene (LDPE) as part of the filling process. The container closure system is formed as part of 
the aseptic packaging process, resulting in a sterile ampoule that is sealed by fusion.  
Active Substance 
The  active  substance  is  aztreonam  its  chemical  name  is  (Z)-2-[[[(2-amino-4-thiazolyl)[[(2S,3S)-2-
methyl-4-oxo-1-sulfo-3-azetidinyl]carbamoyl]methylene]amino]oxy]-2-methylpropionic  acid  accor-
ding to the IUPAC nomenclature. 
Aztreonam  contains  two  chiral  centres  at  the  C-2  and  C-3  positions  of  the  β-lactam  ring,  and  an 
oximino in the Z-configuration. Aztreonam is produced as the 2S,3S-enantiomer. 
The active substance is white to off-white crystalline powder. In fact four polymorphs of aztreonam 
are  known  (form  α,  β,  δ,  and  γ)  with  different  X-ray  diffraction  patterns  and  IR  spectrum.  The  β 
in 
polymorph 
dimethylformamide,  dimethylsulfoxide,  in  buffered  aqueous  solutions;  slightly  soluble  in  ethanol; 
slightly  soluble 
toluene,  chloroform, 
dichloromethane and ethyl acetate. 
the  USP  Pharmacopeia.  The  active  substance 
in  water  and  methanol  and  practically 
is  described 
is  soluble 
insoluble 
in 
in 
7/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
Aztreonam  is  synthesised  in  three  reactions  steps  following  purification  by  re-crystallisation.  The 
manufacturing process has been adequately described. Specifications for starting materials, reagents, 
and  solvents  have  been  provided.  Adequate  control  of  critical  steps  and  intermediates  has  been 
presented.  
Structure  elucidation  has  been  performed  by  mass  spectroscopy,  UV  spectroscopy,  1H-NMR 
spectroscopy and 13C-NMR spectroscopy. The molecular weight was determined by elemental analysis 
which is in agreement with the expected molecular weight. The Polymorphic form is elucidated using 
X-ray diffraction and IR spectra analysis. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance  (white  to  off-white  crystalline 
powder),  identification  (IR),  optical  rotation  (Ph.  Eur.),  water  content  (Ph.Eur),  assay  (HPLC), 
impurities  (HPLC),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur),  residue  on  ignition  (Ph.Eur),  organic  volatile  impurities 
(GC), microbial limits (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxin (Ph. Eur.). 
It was verified that all specifications reflect the relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The 
non-pharmacopoeia analytical methods, which were used in the routine controls, were well described 
and their validations are in accordance with the relevant ICH Guidelines. It was noticed that further 
validation and information regarding some analytical methods are needed and it was agreed that this 
information can be provided as a quality commitment. 
Impurities were described, classified as process related impurities and possible degradation products, 
and qualified. Nevertheless, the Applicant must provide further information regarding impurities in the 
active substance. 
Residual solvents were controlled in the active substance. However, further information regarding the 
residual solvents in the active substance is needed, in order to confirm that the limits are according to 
the relevant ICH requirements. 
Certificates of analyses for the active substances were provided and all batch analysis results comply 
with the specifications and show a good uniformity from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The active substance is intended for storage in a refrigerator. The stability results from long-term (5 °C 
±  3°C)  and  accelerated  studies  (25°C  ±  2°C/60%  RH  ±  5%  RH)  were  completed  according  to  ICH 
guidelines  demonstrated  adequate  stability  of  the  active  substance.  During  the  stability  studies  the 
following parameters were controlled: appearance, purity, impurities, bacterial endotoxins and water 
content. It was noticed that the test methods applied are those used for release of the drug substance. 
The active substance remained within the specifications for up to 24 months after long term storage at 
-20°C and 5°C. 
Furthermore stress studies were also performed under acid, base, light, heat and oxidation conditions. 
It was noted that 5% of degradation of the active substance when stored under light, heat and oxidation 
conditions. The photostability study that was performed in accordance with the note for guidance on 
photostability testing of new active substances and medicinal products (CPMP/ICH/279/95) confirmed 
that  the  active  substance  is  photosensitive.  Based  on  the  stability  results  it  was  concluded  that  the 
proposed re-test period is justified when the active substance is stored in the original packing material 
and protect from light and elevate temperatures. 
Medicinal Product  
Dry Powder  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
8/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  information  regarding  the  choice  of  the  active  substance  and  the  excipients  are  sufficiently 
justified.  Furthermore,  all  the  excipients  used  are  well  known  and  commonly  used  in  the 
pharmaceutical industry. 
A summary of the development of the drug product has been provided taking into consideration the 
proposed route of administration and usage. The quantitative ratio of lysine to aztreonam is unchanged 
between clinical trials Phases I to III and the proposed commercial formulation. 
It  was  confirmed  that  the  formulation  and  manufacturing  process  proposed  for  the  commercial 
formulation  and  manufacturing  process  is  identical  to  that  used  to  prepare  primary  stability  and 
clinical batches. No significant differences in manufacturing approach and key processing parameters 
are  apparent  between  sites,  or  between  batch  sizes.  It  was  verified  that  the  source  of  the  active 
substance will not have an impact in manufacturability and physicochemical properties of the finished 
product. 
The  Altera  nebulizer  generates  an  aerosol  by  pumping  solution  through  a  perforated  vibrating 
membrane.  
Dry  Powder  aztreonam  lysine  is  packaged  with  the  solvent  (water  containing  0.17%  w/v  sodium 
chloride) and is reconstituted to form a solution for nebulisation. 
• 
Adventitious Agents 
Neither the excipients nor the active substance is derived from human or animal origin. Certificates of 
the  manufacture  of  L-lysine  monohydrate  confirmed  that  no  materials  of  animal  origin,  nor  milk  or 
milk derivative, are used in the manufacture of L-lysine monohydrate.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  process  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  consists  of  the 
following steps: Preparation of AZLI solution (lysine monohydrate and aztreonam), filtration, filing, 
lyophilization, sealing and packaging. 
The  equipment  used  is  commonly  available  in  the  pharmaceutical  industry.  It  was  verified  that  the 
critical  steps  of  this  manufacturing  site  have  been  identified  and  characterised.  The  batch  analysis 
results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  the  agreed 
finished product specifications. 
Furthermore, validation data on the manufacture process at both proposed manufacturing sites should 
be provided before to commercialisation.  
•  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  were  established  according  the  ICH  guidelines  and  include  the 
following  tests:  appearance,  identification  with  IR  and  HPLC,  reconstitution,  water  content,  assay, 
impurities in the finished product were described, classified as process related impurities and possible 
degradation  products,  and  specified.  It  is  important  to  underline  that  further  information  regarding 
some impurities in the finished product must be provided. 
All  analytical  procedures  that  were  used  for  testing  the  medicinal  product  were  properly  described. 
Furthermore,  all  relevant  analytical  methods  were  satisfactorily  validated  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant ICH guidelines.  
All  analytical procedures that  were  used  for  testing  the  finished  product  were  properly  described.  It 
was noted that further information regarding some analytical methods will be provided. All relevant 
methods  were  validated  in  accordance  with the  relevant  ICH  guidelines.  Nevertheless,  the  applicant 
committed to provide further information regarding the validation of some analytical methods.  
The batch analysis data for sixteen batches confirm that the lyophilised powder can be manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of the 
finished product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the relevant ICH guidelines. Five scale batches have 
been stored at long term (5 °C ± 3°C) and four scale batches have been stored at accelerated conditions 
9/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(25°C ± 2°C/60% RH ± 5% RH). All batches were packed in the proposed market packaging. It was 
verified  that  the  following  parameters  were  controlled:  appearance,  reconstituted  solution,  assay, 
degradation product content, lysine content, water content, pH, osmolality, particulate matter, sterility 
and bacterial endotoxins. It was noted that some additional analytical methods to release testing have 
been used (i.e osmolality, particulate matter, bacterial endotoxins and lysine content). All attributes of 
the  finished  product  remained  within  the  acceptance  limits  of  the  specification  after  24  months  of 
long-term storage and 6 months storage under accelerated conditions. 
The results of the photostability study, which was conducted under ICH conditions, demonstrated that 
the  finished  product  when  stored  in  the  primary  container  closure  system  showed  no  change  in 
physicochemical properties upon exposure to light. Stress studies under high temperatures show that 
that no changes in physicochemical properties and a slight increase in the degradation products. 
No  significant  changes  in physicochemical  properties  were  observed  when lysophilised  powder  was 
reconstituted and stored at room temperature for up to 12 hours following long-term storage at 5 °C. 
Furthermore,  the  data  indicate  that  the  reconstituted  solution  should  not  be  stored  for  more  than  12 
hours prior to use at 25°C. 
The  current  24 month  real  time  long  term  stability  data  and  accelerated  stability  data  for  6  months 
support the proposed shelf life and storage condition of 'Store in a refrigerator at 2-8oC' for a shelf life 
of  2  years.  Furthermore,  the  lyophilised  powder  can  be  transported  and  stored  by  the  patient  for  8 
weeks below 25oC. The reconstituted solution of aztreonam lysine may be stored below 25oC for 12 
hours before use. 
Saline Solution 0.17% Diluent 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The diluent is a single use, sterile 1 ml preservative-free 0.17%w/v sodium chloride solution in a blow 
fill seal ampoule co-packaged with the drug product. It is important to underline that there is no active 
substance in the diluent. The above concentration of sodium chloride solution was selected to provide 
a minimum permanent anion concentration while ensuring that the osmolality of the final reconstituted 
solution does not exceed 550 mOsm/kg which would contribute to bronchospasm and coughing. 
The  aim  during  development  was  to  obtain  a  diluent  which  was  suitable  for  reconstitution  of  the 
lyophilised  powder  and  where  the  final  solution  would  demonstrate  physicochemical  characteristics 
appropriate for patient administration by nebulisation.   
The diluent pH was not considered significant as it is the aztreonam lysine (lyophilised powder) which 
contributes mainly to the final pH of the finished product solution, and the diluent has no significant 
buffering capacity. The osmolality of the final reconstituted solution was controlled by including a low 
amount of sodium chloride. Stability studies of reconstituted solutions of lyophilised powder with the 
diluent demonstrated compatibility of the diluent with the finished product. 
It can be concluded that all information regarding the choice of the excipients, which are commonly 
used in the pharmaceutical industry, are sufficiently justified. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  involves  standard  technology  using  standard 
manufacturing processes such as preparation of a sodium chloride solution, mixing, sterile filtration, 
filling into individual blow/fill/seal ampoules and packaging.  
Furthermore, the equipment used is commonly available in the pharmaceutical industry. It was noticed 
that the critical steps have been identified and controlled. Validation studies for the filters used in the 
manufactured of the diluent were performed to demonstrate the ability of the filters to retain microbes 
and also demonstrated compatibility of the filter materials with the sodium chloride solution. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  validated  and  the  results  of  the  manufacturing 
validation reports were considered satisfactory. 
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
10/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  diluent  specifications  were  established  according  the  ICH  guidelines  and  include  the  following 
tests:  appearance,  identification  tests  for  sodium  (Ph.Eur.)  and  chloride  (Ph.Eur.),  assay,  sterility, 
endotoxin and deliverable volume. 
Two  non-compendial  methods  (appearance  and  deliverable  volume  of  diluent)  that  were  used  for 
testing  the  diluent  were  properly  described.  No  further  validation  was  needed  since  the  analytical 
methods are carried out according to pharmacopoeial methods. 
The  batch  analysis  data  for  nine  pilot  scale  batches  confirm  that  the  diluent  can  be  manufactured 
reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of the 
diluent.  
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the relevant ICH guidelines. Four scale batches have 
been  stored  at  long  term  at  (5  °C  ±  3°C  and  25°C  ±  2°C/60%  RH  ±  5%  RH)  and  at  accelerated 
conditions  (40°C  ±  2°C/60%  RH  ±  5%  RH).  All  batches  were  packed  in  the  proposed  market 
packaging. It was verified that the following parameters were controlled: appearance, assay for sodium 
chloride,  weight  loss,  pH, fill  volume,  sterility  and  bacterial  endotoxins. Two  stress  stability  studies 
were conducted on each of three primary stability batches. In one study the diluent was subjected to 
four  temperature  cycles,  with  each  cycle  consisting  of  24  hours  at  5  °C  at  24  hours  at  25  °C.  In  a 
second study, the diluent was subjected to four freeze thaw cycles, with each cycle consisting of 24 
hours at -20 °C at 24 hours at 25 °C. Based on the data obtained for long term, accelerated and stress 
studies it can be concluded that the diluent does not require any special storage conditions. 
Discussion on chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture,  control  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product 
have been presented and justified in accordance with relevant CHMP and ICH guidelines. The results 
of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of the finished product.  
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
In  support  of  the  application,  Gilead  Sciences  have  provided  a  literature  review  that  describes  the 
mechanism of action and activity of aztreonam against a range of bacteria as well as pharmacokinetic 
and  toxicology  given  its  extensive  clinical  experience  of  over  20  years.    The  non-clinical  testing 
performed  for  aztreonam  primarily  focuses  on  local  and  systemic  effects  resulting  from  inhalation 
exposure.    Additionally,  studies  examining  dermal  and  ocular  irritation  as  well  as  the  allergenic 
potential of AZLI were also conducted.  Moreover, a study comparing the pharmacokinetic profiles of 
the approved formulations of aztreonam and AZLI was also performed. 
All pivotal pharmacokinetic, toxicology and local tolerance studies were stated as performed to GLP 
criteria.  
Pharmacology 
Aztreonam acts like beta-lactam antibiotics through interference with bacterial cell wall biosynthesis. 
It has high affinity to PBP3 of gram-negative bacteria.  
Aztreonam  has  been  in  use  (via  the  parenteral  route)  for  several  decades  and  it  is  known  that  it  is 
active  against  gram-negative  bacteria  including  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa.  Recent  in  vitro  data from 
Europe  are  however  limited.  Also,  data  from  multidrug  resistant  organisms  are  very  limited.  One 
recent  European study  showed  a  wide  range  of MIC  values  (0.125 –  512  µg/ml).  A  limited  in  vitro 
study  comparing  MICs  of  aztreonam  lysinate  to  aztreonam  arginate  showed  no  relevant  difference 
between these two salts.  
Aztreonam was active against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a protection study in mice, in meningitis 
models in rats (Haemophilus influenzae) and rabbits (Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and in a pneumonia 
11/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
model  (Pseudomonas  aeruginosa)  in  guinea  pigs.  Also  these  in  vivo  data  were  limited:  the 
publications were approximately 20 years old, they provided no evidence of complete eradication of 
the  infection,  and  there  were  no  data  from  experiments  by  which  the  compound  was  given  by 
inhalation. Hence, the provided animal experiments do not provide relevant evidence that aztreonam 
administered  via  inhalation  is  effective  against  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  the  respiratory  system. 
Clinical studies will therefore have to provide this evidence. 
Data  regarding  resistance  show  a  decreased  susceptibility,  especially  in  Europe.  Limited  data  on 
multidrug  resistant  isolates  show  that  susceptibility  in  these  isolates  was  low  (10-20%).  In  the 
development of resistance, likely more mechanisms are involved. Aztreonam seems stable to metallo-
beta-lactamases  (class  B)  and  OXA  beta-lactamases  (class  D).  Regarding  class  C  beta-lactamases, 
aztreonam is at least susceptible to hydrolysation by AmpC. Two common beta-lactamases from class 
A (TEM- and SHV-type beta-lactamases) have only rarely been reported in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
Several other class A type beta-lactamases have been reported to hydrolyse aztreonam.  
Based  on  parenteral  use,  as  for  all  beta-lactam  antibiotics,  for  aztreonam,  time  above  MIC  is  the 
PK/PD  parameter  best  correlating  with  efficacy.  However,  for  the  current  indication,  local 
concentrations in the lung are important. No data were provided regarding concentrations that may be 
expected to occur in the lungs, neither was it discussed by the applicant whether local concentrations 
are expected to be high enough, also when compared to high MICs (MIC90 of >512 µg/ml is highest 
reported MIC90 in recent European study). 
No  information  was  provided  regarding  secondary  pharmacodynamics.  This  is  endorsed.  As  a  beta-
lactam antibiotic aztreonam is a member of a well-known class. 
A  safety  pharmacology  study  in  conscious  dogs  is  planned  by  the  applicant  to  evaluate  the 
CV/respiratory  effects  of  aztreonam.  The  results  of  this  study  are  anticipated  to  be  complete  during 
1Q2009 and will be submitted to the CHMP as soon as the report becomes available. 
In  vitro,  aztreonam  showed  evidence  of  at  least  some  synergy  with  a  wide  range  of  antibiotics.  No 
noteworthy antagonism was observed. No discussion was provided regarding interactions which may 
be expected with agents that are specifically used by CF patients. 
Although provided data on in vitro susceptibility of aztreonam were rather limited, it gives a picture of 
an  agent  which  is  active  against  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa,  but  with  decreasing  susceptibility, 
especially in Europe. Further information regarding susceptibility will have to appear from the clinical 
data. Lacking is a discussion regarding expected local exposure in association with MIC values. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics  of aztreonam  was  based  on  literature  data  for  aztreonam  arginine  and  studies 
performed by the applicant with aztreonam lysine and aztreonam arginine. In the provided literature 
for aztreonam arginine, the analysis of aztreonam was performed using HPLC UV, thin-layer radio-
chromatography  and  scintillation  counting.  The  current  studies  were  performed  using  LC-MS  as 
analysis method. In summary, inhalation of aztreonam lysine in rats and dogs following a single dose 
results in rapid absorption with Tmax occurring at the completion of the inhalation exposure or within 
minutes  thereafter.  In  rats,  parameters  indicative  of  systemic  exposure  (Cmax  and  AUC)  tended  to 
increase  in  relationship  to  dose  whereas  there  was  considerable  variability  in  clearance  (CL/F)  and 
volume of distribution (Vd/F). Estimates of plasma ranged from 0.87 to 1.67 h and results indicate that 
steady  state  was  reached  within  the  first  day  of  dosing.  In  dogs,  parameters  indicative  of  systemic 
exposure  did  not  exhibit  consistent  trends  but  an  overall  increase  was  generally  observed  as  dose 
increased. No consistent trends were identified in estimates of clearance or volume of distribution. The 
T½el  values  for  dogs  exposed  via  inhalation appeared  to  be  higher  than  values  from  rats.  No  major 
differences between males and females occurred with either species. 
The plasma protein binding of aztreonam (administered as arginine salt) ranged from 67% in mouse, 
60% in rat, 28-34% in dogs, 49-59% in monkeys and 27% human serum. Tissue distribution studies of 
12/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aztreonam arginine were performed in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and Cynomolgus monkeys following 
intramuscular and subcutaneous administration (Kita et al., 1986; Singhvi et al., 1984; Bonner et al., 
1981). It seems that based on the data for arginine after intramuscular administration that the kidney, 
liver, meninges and pancreas are target organs. Placental transfer of aztreonam occurs in pregnant rats 
and aztreonam is present in the milk of dams. 
The  applicant  has  shown  that  aztreonam  is  stable  or  metabolized  slowly  by  the  indicated  CYP450 
isoenzymes  and  FMO  enzymes.  Aztreonam  also  appeared  to  be  stable  in  pulmonary  S9  fractions, 
hepatic  and  pulmonary  microsomal  fractions  and  cryopreserved  hepatocytes  from  normal  healthy 
human  donors  as  well  as  rats,  dogs,  and  cynomolgus  monkeys.  This  suggests  that  drug-drug 
interactions via CYP induction or inhibition are unlikely. 
In the study by Kripalani et al. (1984) thin-layer radio-chromatography and HPLC-UV were used to 
identify the metabolites in urine after administration of aztreonam arginine in rats. They identified a 
major  metabolite  SQ26,992  and  4 unknown  metabolites.  In  healthy  human  subjects,  the  urinary 
excretion  of  unchanged  aztreonam  accounted  for  66-68%  of  an  intravenous  or  intramuscular  dose 
ranging  from  125  to  4000  mg.  Kripalani  et  al.  (1984)  provided  an  overview  of  the  excretion  of 
unchanged  aztreonam  and  its  metabolites  in  rat,  dog,  monkey  and  human  after  administration  of 
aztreonam  arginine  which  indicated  that  aztreonam  is  mainly  excreted  via  urine  and  2-10%  of  the 
urinary metabolites remained unidentified. 
In a study by Kripalani et al. (1984), the excretion of aztreonam arginine was investigated in rat, dog 
and  monkey.  Excretion  in  rat  was  ~70%  in  urine  and  ~30%  in  faeces.  In  dog,  ~88%  of  the 
subcutaneous dose was excreted via urine and faecal excretion averaged ~10%. In monkeys excretion 
via  urine  accounted for  ~42%  and  excretion  in faeces  also  accounted for  ~42%.  In  humans,  urinary 
excretion is the primary mode of elimination. 
The  in  vivo  inhibitory  effect  is  only  observed  at  high  dose  levels  (40  to  300  mg/kg/day)  given 
aztreonam arginine intravenously over a four week period to monkeys and the applicant stated that it 
would not be expected to occur at the maximum clinically intended inhaled dose of 4.5 mg/kg/day in 
humans.  In  clinical  studies,  aztreonam  showed  no  significant  interactions  with  cephradrine, 
clindamycin, gentamicin, metronidazole or nafcillin when administered to healthy male volunteers as 
single-dose  infusions  in  a  three-way  balanced  crossover  study.  Several  of  these  drugs  are  cleared 
renally, while some, such as clindamycin, appear to have a component of clearance due to oxidative 
metabolism  mediated  by  CYP3A4.  No  formal  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  with 
aztreonam.  However,  aztreonam  was  not  shown  to  significantly  inhibit  the  major  human  drug 
metabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes at clinically relevant doses and so was considered to be an 
unlikely inhibitor of these enzymes in vivo.  Moreover, aztreonam did not significantly induce human 
drug metabolizing enzymes and transporters through activation of AhR or PXR and so is not thought 
to cause clinically relevant drug-drug interactions through AhR or PXR. 
Toxicology 
Nonclinical  toxicology  of  AZLI  associated  with  inhalation  exposure  was  characterised  by  an  acute 
single-dose inhalation study in dogs, a 7-day repeat-dose inhalation study in rats, pivotal 28- and 90-
day  repeat-dose  inhalation  studies  in  rats  and  dogs,  and  a  104-week  repeat-dose  inhalation 
carcinogenicity study in rats.  Local tolerance studies to examine potential dermal and ocular irritation 
and allergenicity studies were performed in rabbits and guinea pigs, respectively. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Sixteen  male  and  16  female  beagle  dogs  (~4.5-6.5  months  old)  were  exposed  to  AZLI  (0  mg 
aztreonam/kg – vehicle control, 50 mg aztreonam/kg – low dose, 100 mg aztreonam/kg – intermediate 
dose and 200 mg aztreonam/kg – high dose) using a closed face-mask system with the dogs breathing 
passively  from  a  DeVilbiss  ultrasonic  nebuliser  for  15,  30  and  60  minutes.    The  high  dose  was  the 
maximum  attainable  dose as  determined  by  aerosol  characterization investigations  using  a  clinically 
relevant  formulation  (100  mg  aztreonam/ml).    General  clinical  condition  and  health  was  observed 
13/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
before  exposure,  during  exposure  and  approximately  1  to  2  hours  after  exposure.    Blood  and  urine 
samples  were  taken  for  haematology,  coagulation,  clinical  chemistry  and  urinalysis  examinations.  
Single-dose blood and urine toxicokinetics were also recorded. 
Estimated  mean  achieved  doses  were  0,  44.2,  107.8  and  169.2  mg/kg  for  groups  1,  2,  3  and  4, 
respectively.    There  were  no  adverse  clinical  signs  or  treatment-related  effects  observed  on  body 
weight, food consumption, blood biochemistry, urinalysis, necropsy, organ weight or histopathology.  
The NOEL was considered to be 169.2 mg/kg. 
Single-dose pharmacokinetic parameters are summarised in Table 1, while aztreonam was detected in 
the urine in all treated animals with a mean amount excreted over a 24-hour collection period of 20.0, 
32.5 and 61.0 mg for groups 2, 3 and 4, respectively.  
Table 1.  Mean (SD) Toxicokinetic Values in Beagle Dogs Following a Single Dose of AZLI by Inhalation 
Treatment 
Group 
Achieved Dose  
(mg Aztreonam/kg) 
Tmaxa 
(hr) 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
AUC (0-∞) 
AUC (0-t) 
(µg-hr/ml) 
44.2 
2 (Low dose) 
3 (Intermediate 
dose) 
12.7 
(9.44) 
19.5  
(9.52) 
35.8 
(21.8) 
a Approximate exposure duration: Group 2 – 15 min; Group 3 – 30 min; Group 4 – 60 min 
0.75  
(0.29) 
1.25 
(0.50) 
0.813 
(0.898) 
4.62 
(1.43) 
5.41 
(2.39) 
12.1 
(6.61) 
4 (High dose) 
107.8 
169.2 
12.6 
(7.38) 
19.2 
(9.43) 
35.6 
(17.6) 
T½el 
(hr) 
5.78 
(1.24) 
6.15 
(2.11) 
5.31 
(2.23) 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
7-Day Dose Range Finding Inhalation Toxicity Study of Aztreonam in Rats (Study 663632, GLP) 
Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats (6/sex/group; ~11-12 weeks old) were administered target dose 
levels of 0, 50, or 200 mg/kg/day using aerosolized AZLI (100 mg/ml) via nose only inhalation with a 
Hospitak  952  airjet  nebuliser.    General  clinical  condition  and  health  was  observed  before  exposure, 
during exposure and approximately 1 to 2 hours after exposure.  Blood and urine samples were taken 
on  Days  7  and  8  of  study  for  haematology,  coagulation,  clinical  chemistry  and  urinalysis 
examinations.    Following  7  days  of  treatment,  animals  were  euthanized  and  subjected  to  detailed 
necropsy and organ weight analysis. 
Overall  group  mean  estimated  total  doses  of  0,  34  and  144  mg/kg/day  (estimated  mean  pulmonary 
doses of 0, 2.4 and 10.1 mg/kg/day) were achieved for Groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively.  There were no 
observed  adverse  clinical  signs  or  treatment  related  effects  on  body  weights,  blood  biochemistry, 
urinalysis or necropsy findings that could be attributed to aztreonam.  An increase in prostrate weight 
was observed for the mid (non-significant) and high dose groups (significant) but no related necropsy 
findings  were  noted  in  the  prostrate.    It  was  unclear  whether  this  change  was  related  to  treatment.  
Based  on  these  results  doses  of  35,  70  and  150  mg/kg/day  were  considered  appropriate  for  the 
subsequent 28 day study in the same species. 
28-Day  Inhalation  Toxicity  Study  of  Aztreonam  in  Rats  with  a  14-Day  Recovery  Period  (Study 
663559, GLP) 
Male and female Sprague-Dawley (80/sex; ~6.5-7.5 weeks old) were assigned to one of four treatment 
groups and were administered AZLI (low dose 35 mg/kg, intermediate dose 70 mg/kg and high dose 
150 mg/kg) or vehicle control for 28 days.  Reversibility of treatment-related effects were analysed in 
selected  animals  in  vehicle  control  and  high-dose  treatment  groups  for  14  days  upon  completion  of 
dosing. 
28-Day Inhalation Toxicity Study (Aztreonam and Degraded Aztreonam Products) in Rats with a 14-
Day Recovery Period (Study 668117, GLP) 
Male and female IGS(CD) Sprague-Dawley rats (72/sex; 6-7 weeks old) were assigned to one of three 
treatment  groups  and  were  administered  vehicle  (Group  1),  AZLI  (Group  2),  or  degraded  AZLI 
(Group 3) for 28 days.  Clinical vials of AZLI were degraded at 74ºC for 5 days and doses obtained 
14/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were used to establish acceptable impurity levels for the marketed product.  Inhalation exposure used a 
nose only system with the rats breathing passively while restrained in a clear, tapered, polycarbonate 
tube  attached  to  a  central  plenum  exposure  chamber  that  had  been  calibrated  to  deliver  an  aerosol 
generated  by  airjet  nebulisers.    Reversibility  of  treatment-related  effects  was evaluated in  5  animals 
per sex per group for 14 days upon completion of the main study. 
90-Day  Inhalation  Toxicity  Study  of  Aztreonam  in  Rats  with  a  28-Day  Recovery  Period  (Study 
664348, GLP) 
Male  and  female  Sprague-Dawley  rats  (104/sex;  ~6-7  weeks  old)  were  assigned  to  one  of  five 
treatment  groups  and  administered  AZLI  (30,  60,  120  mg/kg/day  –  Groups  2,  3  &  4),  degraded 
aztreonam formulation (120 mg/kg/day – Group 5) or vehicle control (Group 1) for 90 days via nose 
only inhalation using the Hospitak 952 airjet nebuliser.  Animals (5 male and female) in the vehicle 
control and high dose group were held for 28 days after completion of the dosing period to evaluate 
reversibility of treatment-related effects.   
28-Day  Inhalation  Toxicity  Study  of  Aztreonam  in  Dogs  with  a  14-Day  Recovery  Period  (Study 
663496, GLP) 
Male and female beagle dogs (16/sex; ~6 months old) were assigned to one of four treatment groups 
and administered AZLI (40, 80 and 200 mg/kg/day – groups 2, 3 & 4) or vehicle control (group 1) for 
28 days.  Animals (2 male and female) in the vehicle control and high dose group were held for 14 
days after completion of the dosing period to evaluate reversibility of treatment-related effects. 
90-Day  Inhalation  Toxicity  Study  of  Aztreonam  in  Dogs  with  a  28-Day  recovery  Period  (Study 
664353, GLP) 
Male and female beagle dogs (20/sex; 6 months old) were assigned to one of four treatment groups 
and administered AZLI (35, 70 and 140 mg/kg/day – groups 2, 3 & 4) or vehicle control (group 1) for 
90  days.  Animals  (2  male  and  female) in  the  vehicle  control  and  high  dose  group  were  held  for  28 
days after completion of the dosing period to evaluate reversibility of treatment-related effects.   
In above repeat-dose toxicity studies, no significant systemic toxicities were shown. The NOAEL after 
90 days exposure in rats was 32 mg/kg/day because of olfactory epithelial atrophy at 62 mg/kg/day. 
The  NOAEL  after  90  days  of  exposure  in  dogs  was  133  mg/kg/day.  In  rat,  a  dose  dependent  mild 
irritancy effects in the upper respiratory tract can be shown.  Both in the rat and the dog studies partly 
reversible irritancy effects in the upper respiratory tract are shown.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Aztreonam was not genotoxic in a chromosome aberration assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells and in 
a  mouse  lymphoma  assay  scoring  for  forward  mutations  at  the  thymidine  kinase  locus  in  L5178Y 
cells.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
A 2-year inhalation carcinogenicity study was performed with aztreonam lysine in rats. Evidence of 
nasal irritation was found, as was also in repeated-dose toxicity studies. In high dose, the incidence of 
C-cell  adenomas  in  the  thyroid  gland  (18%)  was  increased  in  female  animals  and  well  above  the 
historical  control  incidence  (7-10%).    No  attempt  was  made  by  the  applicant  to  provide  a  possible 
mechanism behind this finding. There is hardly a safety margin for this effect: the safety margin based 
on the free fraction was 2.2 when based on AUC and 9 when based on Cmax.  
No carcinogenicity study in a second species was performed.  Aztreonam is an old substance by the 
parenteral route and from the current rat study there is no indication that aztreonam causes tumours 
locally in the airways. However, no attempt is made by the applicant to discuss the consequences for 
the paediatric population.  
15/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Literature references indicate that aztreonam has no adverse reproductive effect in rats at doses up to 
and including 750 mg/kg/day.  Based on the dose levels achieved with aztreonam in CF patients (4.5 
mg/kg/day),  it  is  considered  that  aztreonam  will  not  pose  a  significant  risk  to  reproductive  and/or 
developmental capacity of human CF patients.  However, since it has been established that aztreonam 
crosses the placenta and enters the foetal circulation in rats and no clinical studies on reproduction in 
pregnant  human  females  with  CF  have  been  performed  to  date,  aztreonam  should  be  used  during 
pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs any potential risks. 
No information was provided regarding the use in juvenile animals. This is endorsed. The exposure 
will be mainly pulmonary and the pulmonary system is under development up to approximately two 
years of age, whereas AZLI is not indicated for children of that age group.  
•  Local tolerance  
Aztreonam lysinate was not irritating to rabbit skin and rabbit eyes. 
Aztreonam-sensitized  and  challenged  guinea  pigs  did  not  exhibit  evidence  of  the  production  of 
reaginic antibodies which would elicit an allergic reaction. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The drug substance impurities E-isomer and Open Ring and the drug product impurities Lysine adduct 
1  and  2,  Aztreonam  dimer,  E-isomer  and  Open  Ring  are  sufficiently  qualified  regarding  general 
toxicity. These impurities are not yet qualified regarding potential genotoxicity. 
Two  in  vitro  genotoxicity  studies  as  well  as  a  structural  alert  analysis  using  DEREK  are  being 
performed  and  will  be  submitted  as  soon  as  available.    If  structural  alert  analysis  shows  structural 
alerts for genotoxicity, those impurities need to be tested at least at 250 µg/plate in the Ames test In 
this  case,  where  the  Ames  test  is  not  suitable,  equivalent  concentrations  should  be  applied  in  the 
alternative  tests  that  are  proposed  by  the  applicant.  If  structural  alert  analysis  reveals  no  genotoxic 
alerts, the levels at which the applicant proposes the impurities to be tested, can be regarded sufficient. 
Trimethylsilanol  was  found  in  the  nebuliser  solution  (up  to  3  µg/vial)  when  it  was  left  to  stand  for 
more than 1 hour. Sufficient evidence was provided that no toxicity is expected from trimethylsilanol 
at concentrations of 3 µg/vial and that overall, trimethylsilanol can be considered non-genotoxic. An 
extractable/leachable study was performed with the rubber stopper of the vial. The major extractable 
compounds  from  water  extraction  were  methylcyclopentane  (maximum  intake  6.3  µg/day), 
cyclohexane  (maximum  intake  3.3  µg/day),  and  butylated  hydroxytoluene  (maximum  intake  3.6 
µg/day).  The  maximum  intakes  of  these  extractables  are  only  slightly  higher  than  the  Threshold  of 
Toxicological  Concern (1.5  µg/day,  Guideline  on the  limits  of  genotoxic impurities).  Given  that  the 
TTC of 1.5 µg/day is based on lifetime daily exposure and that the expected use of Aztreonam lysine 
will not be continuously, but for 28 days followed by a period of at least 28 days without therapy, it is 
not expected that these extractable compounds will give reason for concern. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  environmental  risk  assessment  was  completed.  Based  on  the  results  of  the  phase  II  Tier  A 
assessment, risks to the environment are assumed to be negligible. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Both  in  rat  and  dog  studies,  no  significant  systemic  toxicities  were  encountered.    However,  partly 
reversible  irritancy  effects  in  the  upper  respiratory  tract  were  shown.    In  theory,  long  term  chronic 
irritation could result in cancer (as a result of increased cell division during tissue repairment). It can 
be  concluded  that  this  effect  is  not  specific  to  aztreonam.  In  dogs,  this  effect  is  not  clearly  present.  
16/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore the dog would have been a better animal model based in the breathing (through mouth 
(dog) versus nose (rat)).  Also, the inhalation time for the laboratory animals is much longer (up to 4 
h) than that for intended clinical use (2-3  min), which implies that local concentration in humans is 
probably relatively high compared with that in animals. Although effects are mild, and restricted to the 
upper  airways,  clinical  relevance  cannot  be  ruled  out  with  certainty  and  a  comment  on  possible 
irritancy effects in the respiratory tract of patients can be considered for the RMP. 
The applicant discussed the mechanism of the C-cell adenoma and its relevance only in a very general 
way, but did not discuss the relevance of the observations in this particular situation. C-cell tumours 
are  quite  rare  in  humans, but  C-cell  carcinoma  or  medullary  thyroid  carcinoma  do  occur in  humans 
and  account for  5-10%  of all  thyroid cancers,  of  which  about  25%  are  hereditary  (Leboulleux et  al, 
2004). An important argument of the applicant is the bad prognosis for cystic fibrosis patients who are 
infected  with  Pseudomonas.  However,  life  expectancy  is  rising  up  to  45  years  currently.  In  that 
situation,  the  relevance  of  these  tumours  is  becoming  important.  It  appears  from  the  developments 
hitherto and the fact that clinical studies were performed in children that the product is indeed intended 
to  be  used  also  in  children  (see  also  clinical  AR).  In  conclusion,  considering  the  increasing  life 
expectancy especially for young patients and considering the fact that only one carcinogenicity study 
has been performed with aztreonam, it is still necessary to address the relevance of C-cell adenoma in 
this specific situation. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Clinical programme overview 
Completed studies 
Table 2A. Clinical Study Programme (completed trials) 
Study Design 
Dose  Dose Duration 
No. of Pts/Type 
Primary 
Objective of 
Study 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
and PK 
Start 
and 
End 
Date 
Nov 
02 – 
Dec 
02 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
and PK 
May 
03 – 
Oct 03 
Study 
CP-
AI- 
001 
CP-
AI- 
002 
CP-
AI- 
003 
Phase 1, single center, 
double- blind, 
randomized, 
placebo- controlled 
trial 
Phase 1b, multicenter 
(8 centers), double-
blind, 
randomized, placebo- 
controlled 
trial 
95, 
190 
or 
285 
mg 
75, 
150 
or 
225 
mg 
75 or 
225 
mg 
Single 
ascending 
dose 
Three 
incremental 
dose 
over three days 
increased 
every 
24 hr if MTD 
not reached 
14 days 
BID 
Safety and 
efficacy 
Nov 
03 – 
Aug 
04 
Phase 2, multicenter 
(20 centers), double-
blind, 
placebo-controlled 
trial 
CP-
Safety and 
Feb 
Phase 3, multicenter 
75 mg 
28 days 
17/76 
Age Range, 
yrs (mean) 
18 to 55 (35) 
Adults: 19 to 
54 (33) 
Adolescents: 
13 to 17 (16) 
13 to 53 (26) 
7 to 65 (26) 
24 healthy 
volunteers: 
3 groups of 8 
subjects (6 active / 
2 placebo 
35 adult and 
adolescent CF 
patients. 
105 (31 placebo, 
37 AZLI 75 mg, 
37 AZLI 225 mg) 
CF patients with 
lung disease due to 
PA 
211 CF patients 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AI- 
005 
CP-
AI- 
007 
efficacy 
Safety and 
efficacy 
05 – 
Sept 
06 
Jun 05 
– Apr 
07 
(56 centers), double-
blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled 
trial 
Phase 3, multicenter 
(53 centers), double 
blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled, 
multinational trial 
BID or TID 
75 mg 
28 days 
TID 
with 
lung disease due to 
PA (76 placebo, 
69 AZLI BID an 66 
AZLI TID 
164 CF patients 
with 
lung disease due to 
PA (84 placebo,  80 
AZLI TID 
7 to 74 (30) 
Ongoing study 
Healthy 
Subjects 
or 
Diagnosis 
of 
Patients 
Patients 
with CF 
Duration 
of 
Treatment 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Report 
Ongoing; 
Interim 
Up to nine 
28-day 
courses 
of AZLI, 
each 
course 
followed 
by 
28 days off 
treatment 
Table 2B. Clinical Study Programme (ongoing trial) 
Type 
Objective(s) 
of 
of the 
Study 
Study 
Study 
Identifier 
Study 
Design 
and Type 
of 
Control 
Test 
Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; 
Route of 
Administration 
Number of 
Subjects in 
Safety 
Populationa 
AZLI: 75mg 
BID 
or TID; 
inhalation 
207 at the 
01 March 
2007 
cutoff 
(82 BID, 
125 TID) 
Phase 
3 
CP-AI-
006 
Assess long 
term 
safety of 
AZLI; 
primary 
endpoint – 
AEs, airway 
reactivity, 
vital signs, 
labs. 
Secondary 
disease 
related 
endpoints 
include 
FEV1 and 
CFQ-R. 
Microbiology 
endpoints. 
Open-
label 
follow-on 
study 
(patients 
from 
CP-AI-
005 
and -007). 
Patients 
receive 
AZLI 
according 
to 
the same 
regimen 
(BID 
or TID) 
previously 
assigned 
in 
their 
previous 
study. 
Comparison of trial formulations with finished product 
Aztreonam is provided as a sterile, lyophilized powder that is reconstituted with a sterile saline diulent 
(0.17%  sodium  chloride)  immediately  prior  use.  The  solution  should  be  administered  by  the  PARI 
eFLOW Nebuliser (subsequently named Altera).  
The first eFlow to deliver aztreonam was the eFlow IMP model and was used in the Gilead Phase 1a 
clinical  programme.  The  control  unit  and  nebuliser  handset  for  the  eFlow  IMP  were  different  in 
appearance than later eFlow models, although the aerosol head and vibrating mesh were comparable 
and  the  aerosol  characteristics  were  the  same.  The  Phase  1b  clinical  study  used  the  Pilot  Series  2 
version  of  the  eFlow.  The  Phase  2  clinical  study  used  the  Pilot  Series  3  version  of  the  eFlow.  The 
Phase 3 clinical studies used a 510(k) cleared version of the eFlow, model 78G1004.  
18/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
To  support  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Aztreonam,  5  studies  have  been  submitted  (CP-AI-001,  -002,  -
003, -005, -007). Study -001 was the only healthy subject study, with available plasma and urine data. 
The other studies included CF patients, and in these only sparse data were obtained from plasma and 
sputum.  Furthermore, literature data are provided. 
Literature  data  indicate  that  aztreonam  is  poorly  absorbed  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract  and  is 
therefore  given  i.v.  or  i.m.  Absorption  after  intramuscular  injection  is  good;  peak  plasma 
concentrations of about 46 µg/ml have been achieved within 1 hour of a 1-g dose. Aztreonam is about 
56%  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  It  is  widely  distributed  in  body  tissues  and  fluids,  including  bile. 
Diffusion into the CSF is poor unless the meninges are inflamed. It crosses the placenta and enters the 
foetal  circulation;  small  amounts  are  distributed  into  breast  milk.  Aztreonam  is  not  extensively 
metabolised. The principal metabolite is inactive and is formed by opening of the beta-lactam ring; it 
has a much longer half-life than the parent compound. Aztreonam is excreted mainly in the urine, by 
renal tubular secretion and glomerular filtration; about 60 to 70% of a dose appears within 8 hours as 
unchanged drug with only small quantities of metabolites. Only small amounts of unchanged drug and 
metabolites are excreted in the faeces. 
Aztreonam has a plasma half-life of about 1.7 hours. The half-life may be prolonged in neonates, in 
the elderly, in patients with renal impairment, and to some extent in those with hepatic impairment.  
Aztreonam is removed by haemodialysis and to a lesser extent by peritoneal dialysis. 
Pharmacokinetics following inhalation 
Based upon the urinary excretion data from healthy subjects (study CP-AI-001), after inhalation, mean 
Ae values are obtained from 6.5 – 10.4 % (bioavailability <11%). 
Due to limitation of absorption, bioavailability decreases at high doses. Bioavailability data in patients 
are lacking, but it is considered that low systemic exposure is also the case for patients.  
Plasma  data  are  subject  to  a  high  variability.  At  high  doses  (285  mg),  absorption  is  limited  and 
systemic  exposure  increase  less  than  dose  proportional.  There  is  no  indication  of  accumulation  of 
twice or thrice daily dosing AZLI. Data from the clinical studies in the target population indicate that 
disease severity (based upon FEV) seems to result in lower aztreonam plasma concentrations in case 
the predicted FEV was below 50%, compared to predicted FEV >50%. 
The  sputum  data  indicate  that  aztreonam  sputum  concentrations  obtained  in  adults  were  in  general 
higher than those obtained in adolescents.  Sputum aztreonam concentrations in CF patients at early 
time  points  (10  min  after  single  75  mg  dose  inhalation)  were  10-20  folds  above  MIC  90  values  of 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (32 µg/ml) but decreased significantly below the MIC 90 value at 4 hrs and 
trough  values  measured  in  the  multiple  dose  clinical  studies.  For  the  clinical  relevance  of  this 
regarding  efficacy  see  assessment  of  clinical  results.  Furthermore,  no  relationship  was  observed 
between sputum and plasma aztreonam concentrations. 
Of  importance  for  inhaled  products  are  the  used  nebulisers,  as  differences  in  nebulisers  may  affect 
delivery  of  aztreonam  into  the  lungs.  A  clear  overview  is  lacking  on  which  device  is  used  in  the 
specific PK studies, although used eFlow nebulisers were reported to be comparable to the nebuliser 
meant for marketing. The applicant is requested to give an overview of the devices used in the specific 
studies  and  should  discuss  the  eventual  differences  in  devices  and  the  impact  of  it  on  delivery  of 
aztreonam. 
•  Special populations 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies were done with AZLI in patients with renal impairment. Clinical 
studies  with  AZLI  excluded  patients  with  abnormal  baseline  renal  function  (defined  as  creatinine 
greater than two times the upper limit of normal range). The primary route of excretion for aztreonam 
is via the kidney and the label for aztreonam for injection recommends modifying the dose for renally 
19/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impaired patients after an initial dose of 500 mg, 1 g, or 2 g is given. However, given the low systemic 
exposures seen following AZLI administration, variations in renal function should not require dosage 
adjustments in patients treated with AZLI. 
The  proposed  SPC  of  AZLI  for  inhalation  indicates  that  aztreonam  should  be  used  with  caution  in 
such cases. Taking into account the indication, and the low systemic exposure after inhalation, this is 
considered acceptable, from a pharmacokinetic point of view.  
No specific dose recommendations are stated in the SPC for patients with impaired hepatic function, 
and elderly as pharmacokinetics are not expected to be influenced to a clinically relevant extent.  
No clear differences in plasma and sputum aztreonam concentrations are observed between children, 
adolescents and adults; however, this should be interpreted with caution due to the high inter-subject 
variability.  The proposed SPC of AZLI indicates that the posology in children > 6 years of age is the 
same as for adults, and that dosage is not based on weight or adjusted for age. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Aztreonam  is  metabolised by  hydrolysis,  however,  only  to  a  small extent.  Furthermore,  animal  data 
indicate  that  aztreonam  may  inhibit  CYP3A4  activity.  Considering  the  fact  that aztreonam  systemic 
exposure after inhalation is low, interactions at a systemic level are not expected. On the other hand, in 
vivo data indicated that aztreonam is mainly excreted via urine and 2-10% of the urinary metabolites 
remained  unidentified.  The  metabolism/elimination  was  not  studied  in  sufficient  detail  to  draw 
conclusion on the metabolism of aztreonam and possible drug-drug interaction.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Aztreonam  binds  to  penicillin-binding  proteins  of  susceptible  bacteria,  which  leads  to  inhibition  of 
bacterial cell wall synthesis, followed by filamentation and cell lysis. 
Prevalent important micro-organisms isolated from sputum of CF patients include P.  aeruginosa, S. 
aureus, Burkholderia cepacia, and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Furthermore, H.  influenzae and S. 
pneumoniae,  Mycobacteria, and fungal species such as Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus 
are  encountered5. The antibiotic spectrum of aztreonam is limited to aerobic gram-negative bacteria. It 
includes P.  aeruginosa, the most notorious pathogen in CF  patients with lung infections.  
It has no clinically meaningful activity against other important lung pathogens in CF patents.  
Data  present  in  the  non-clinical  part  of  the  dossier  regarding  resistance  show  a  decreased 
susceptibility,  especially  in  Europe.  Limited  data  on  multidrug  resistant  isolates  show  that 
susceptibility  in  these  isolates  was  low  (10-20%).  In  the  development  of  resistance,  likely  more 
mechanisms are involved.  
Based on parenteral use, as for all β-lactam antibiotics, for aztreonam, time above MIC is the PK/PD 
parameter correlating best with efficacy. However, for the current indication, local concentrations in 
the lung are important. No discussion is provided regarding adequacy of local concentrations of AZLI 
in relation to high MICs (MIC90 of 1024 µg/ml reported in a recent European study). 
In  vitro,  aztreonam  showed  evidence  of  at  least  some  synergy  with  a  wide  range  of  antibiotics 
including tobramycin. No noteworthy antagonism was observed.  
Local  concentrations  of  aztreonam  lysine  were  mostly  well  above  MIC90  values  of  P.  aeruginosa; 
however it is unclear whether sputum culture reflected the endotracheal flora or the tracheobronchial 
flora.  In response to CHMP’s request for a radioactive scintigraphic study the applicant stated that the 
5 G Valenza G et al.  J Cyst Fibros. 2008 Mar;7(2):123-7. Prevalence and antimicrobial susceptibility of micro-organisms 
isolated from sputa of patients with cystic fibrosis. 
20/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
scintigraphy technique cannot provide local concentrations beyond those already known from analysis 
of  aztreonam  sputum  concentrations.  The  technique  cannot  provide  local  concentrations  or  even 
relative concentrations as requested. The only currently available method to determine local aztreonam 
concentrations  in  the  small  airways  is  analysis  of  sputum  concentrations  following  AZLI 
administration. Applicant proposed a revised text for section 5.1 of the SmPC taking into account the 
CHMP’s comments.  
Overall, the  dossier  contained  insufficient  coverage of  the  microbiological  epidemiology  of  relevant 
pathogens  multi  drug  resistant  strains  in  CF  patients  especially  those  with  chronic  Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa infection. Additional data were provided, indicating that high levels of baseline multi-drug 
resistant PA and beta-lactam antibiotic resistance were observed among CF patients in Study CP-AI-
006; whereas lower beta-lactam antibiotic resistance were observed among CF patients in the placebo-
controlled  studies.    The  presence  of  multi-drug  resistant  PA  and  beta-lactam  antibiotic  resistance  at 
baseline seems to affect the clinical outcome (improvement magnitude) notably. 
In  the  open  follow-up  Study  CP-AI-006,  a  trend  toward  increasing  MIC  values  for  beta-lactam 
antibiotics was observed during AZLI therapy, which was more pronounced for patients in the AZLI 
BID  group.  In  contrast,  a  trend  toward  decreasing  MIC  values  for  aminoglycoside  antibiotics  was 
observed during AZLI therapy, particularly for patients in the AZLI TID group. The latter data should 
be interpreted with caution due to the design of the study.  
Further data on resistance are required from ongoing Phase III comparative study with AZLI  versus 
Tobi.  These  comparative  results  are  also  of  critical  importance  for  the  definitive  assessment  of  the 
efficacy and safety of AZLI in the target population.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  active  substance  aztreonam  is  well  known  based  on  the  long-standing  experience  with  the 
systemic  (IV and IM) use at higher dose levels than presently proposed for AZLI for the treatment of 
infections associated with aerobic gram-negative bacteria. Therefore the applicant has not conducted 
formal primary pharmacodynamic studies with AZLI. 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamics  studies  were  performed.  The  effects  of  inhaled  AZLI  on  central 
nervous system function have not been assessed by specific safety pharmacology studies.  
Clinical efficacy  
Efficacy data are derived from four clinical studies: A Phase II (CP-AI-003) safety and efficacy study 
in adolescent and adult CF patients and two Phase III studies [CP-AI-007 (AIR-CF1) and CP-AI-005 
(AIR-CF2)] which evaluated AZLI administered for 28 days (1 course). In addition an ongoing open-
label uncontrolled follow-on study [CP-AI-006 (AIR-CF3)] is provided which evaluates the long-term 
safety and effects on disease related endpoints with multiple courses of AZLI treatment, with 28 days 
between courses. 
21/76 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. 3. Main studies 
Design 
Study 
CP-AI-005 
(complete) 
Double-blind, placebo-controlled; 
28 days  TNS 
label) 
followed by AZLI or placebo 
(open 
AZLI Dose 
AZLI;  75  mg  BID  or  TID; 
inhalation; 
28-day 
run-in  of  TNS, 
28 days  of  AZLI,  56  days 
of follow-up 
CP-AI-007 
(complete) 
CP-AI-006 
(ongoing) 
Double-blind, placebo-controlled  AZLI; 
75  mg 
TID; 
follow-on 
Open-label 
study 
(patients from  CP-AI-005  and  -
receive  AZLI 
007).  Patients 
according  to  the  same  regimen 
(BID or TID) previously assigned 
in their previous study. 
inhalation; 
28  days  of  AZLI,  14  days 
of follow-u 
AZLI:  75mg  BID  or  TID; 
inhalation; 
Up  to  nine  28-day  courses 
of  AZLI, 
course 
followed  by  28 days  off 
treatment 
each 
ITT population 
(treated) 
69 BID AZLI,  
66 TID AZLI,  
38 BID placebo, 
38 TID placebo 
80 TID AZLI,  
84 placebo 
Location 
USA 
56 sites 
USA, 
Canada, 
Australia 
53 sites 
207  
(82 BID, 125 TID) 
at  the  01-03-  2007 
cutoff  
The  main  inclusion  criteria  for  the  latter  study  were  patients  aged  ≥ 6 years  with  CF,  who  had 
completed either study CP-AI-005 or CP-AI-007 or who withdrew from either of these studies due to 
need for anti-pseudomonal antibiotics or due to an adverse event (AE) unrelated to study medication 
tolerability.    
In the two pivotal Phase III studies a newly developed patient reported outcome (PRO) measure was 
used,  the  CFQ-R  which  is  a  CF-specific  quality  of  life  measure  encompassing  both  generic  and  CF 
specific domains. Three symptom scales (respiratory symptoms, digestive symptoms and weight) are 
included along with an overall general health perceptions domain.  
The  applicant  designed  two  studies  (protocols  CP-MCID-001  and  the  TNS  phase  of  CP-AI-005)  to 
determine  the  minimal  clinically  important  difference  (MCID)  measured  by  the  CFQ-R  respiratory 
symptoms domain. In both studies, MCID estimates were based on data obtained before and after 28 
days  of  treatment  with  TNS.  Part  of  these  evaluations  was  to  use  the  global  rating  of  change 
questionnaire  (GRCQ6)  to  support  change  in  CFQ-R  Respiratory  domain  scores.  The  magnitude  of 
improvement in respiratory symptoms, as measured by responses to the GRCQ-Respiratory, was used 
to categorize patients as to whether they had experienced minimal, moderate, large, or no changes in 
respiratory symptoms during TNS treatment. 
The results reported for CP-AI-007 represent the first use of a PRO instrument as the primary endpoint 
in a CF registration trial.  
The  usefulness  of  CFQ-R  as  a  primary  endpoint  in  confirmatory  clinical  trials  is  not  sufficiently 
validated though (see further). Therefore, in the present assessment extra emphasis will be put on the 
lung  function  endpoints  such  as  changes  in  both  FEV1  (L)  and  FEV1  %  predicted7    which  were 
included as secondary endpoints in the controlled and open label Phase III AZLI trials in the present 
application. 
6 CFQ-R: is a CF-specific, patient-reported outcome measure that includes both generic and CF-specific HRQOL domains. 
7 The availability and acceptance of spirometry equipment, standardized methods of performance and reference standards for 
values have led to FEV1 becoming the most widely accepted and useful parameter for testing lung function both in routine 
clinical management of CF patients and in clinical trials of new therapies. FEV1  is the strongest clinical predictor of survival 
among CF patients. Measuring sustained benefit to the patient as measured by lung-function especially FEV1 after multiple 
courses of inhalational antibiotic therapy is considered as an important pivotal evaluation in the assessment of such products. 
Because lung volume is related to age, gender and height, absolute measures of FEV1, measured in liters (l), do not provide a 
useful means to compare pulmonary function among patients who may differ in size and other relevant anthropomorphic 
variables. Therefore, FEV1 (l) is often converted to values adjusted for age, gender and height using an equation developed 
by Knudson and has been the most commonly used outcome measure for CF clinical trials.  
22/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
aureus, 
pathogens 
respiratory 
(Staphylococcus 
Microbiology endpoints included change in PA sputum density, treatment-emergent isolation of other 
bacterial 
Stenotrophomonas  maltophilia, 
Achromobacter  xylosoxidans,  Burkholderia  cepacia  complex),  and  change in susceptibility  of  PA  to 
aztreonam or other antibiotics. In order to assess the PA CFU density in sputum findings definitively, 
the applicant was requested to provide the overview tables together with patient listings for collected 
sputum  volumes  and  CFU  counts  on  which  the  Log10  PA  CFUs  were  based.    However,  sputum 
volumes  were  not  collected  in  the  AZLI  clinical  studies,  but  a  minimum  of  0.5  ml  sputum  was 
required  for  quantitative  analysis  of  PA  CFU  density.  If  the  patient  could  not  expectorate,  an 
oropharyngeal swab was collected for organism identification, but quantitative analysis could not be 
performed. Semi-quantitative analysis of PA CFU density was conducted for sputum sample volumes 
below 0.17 ml. 
•  Dose response study 
Study CP-AI-003. This Phase II study was a  multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (in 
21 centres in the USA, but 20 centres recruited) and attempted to study safety and efficacy effects of 
self- administered AZLI 75 mg BID and 225 mg BID by inhalation. 
Up  to  138  CF  patients  were  to  be  randomized  into  three  cohorts  (75  mg  AZLI,  225  mg  AZLI,  and 
placebo). Patients were screened for inclusion in the trial within 7 days of the start of the treatment 
period.  After  randomization,  each  patient  was  instructed  on  the  use  of  the  eFlow®  Electronic 
Nebuliser (eFlow). Patients were instructed to self-administer one dose twice-daily for 14 days, with 
the two daily doses being separated by at least 8 hours. Patients self-administered the first dose and 
one of the Day 7 doses at the clinic (Visits 2 and 3), and the remaining doses were self-administered at 
home.  Patients  returned  to  the  clinic  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  period  (Day  14,  Visit  4)  and  for  a 
follow-up visit 14 days after the end of the treatment period (Day 28, Visit 5). 
Table 4. Number of Patients Planned, Enrolled, and Analyzed in Study CP-AI-003 
Planned 
Safety Dataset a 
ITT Dataset a 
PP Dataset a 
Placebo 
46 
31 
32 
29 
Some patients did not receive their treatments as randomized.   
a. Data are presented for patients by treatment as received in the Safety and PP data sets and for patients by 
treatment as randomized in the ITT dataset. 
225 mg AZLI 
46 
37 
35 
31 
Total 
138 
105 
105 
94 
Treatment 
75 mg AZLI 
46 
37 
38 
34 
The patients were >13 years of age (mean +SD: 26.0+ 10.2; only approx. ¼ between 13-18 years old) 
with PA and FEV1 ≥ 40% of predicted value who had not used anti-PA or macrolide antibiotics within 
56 days were enrolled.  
The primary efficacy variable was the percent change from pretreatment Day 0 to Day 14 in FEV1.  
The following microbiology variables were assessed: 
•  Disappearance  or  appearance  of  other  pathogens  (Staphylococcus  aureus,  Burkholderia  cepacia 
[appearance only], Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Achromobacter xylosoxidans) from Day 0 to Day 7 
and to Day 14 
• Change in MIC50 and MIC90 of aztreonam for PA from Day 0 to Day 28 
Post hoc exploratory analyses were performed by the sponsor to assess data by disease severity, with 
the disease severity categories separated at 75% rather than at 60% FEV1, and by BD use (BD users 
and non-users). By-subgroup analyses were performed on baseline and demographic data, change in 
23/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
log10 CFU data, and spirometry change data. Spirometry change data were also analyzed by placebo 
subgroup (placebo-75 and placebo-225). Extent of exposure data were re-analyzed by BD use. 
Efficacy results 
There  was  an  increase  in  adjusted  mean  percent  change  in  FEV1  (L)  from  Day  0  to  Day  14  in  all 
treatment groups (4.08% in the placebo group, 6.20% in the 75 mg AZLI group, and 7.71% in the 225 
mg AZLI group).  
There  was  no  significant  difference  in  the  mean  percent  change  in  FEV1  from  Day  0  to  Day  14 
between the 225 mg AZLI and placebo treatment groups, either overall (treatment difference: 3.62%; 
CI:  –1.50,  8.75)  or  for  any  of  the  subsets  tested  (disease  severity  [<  60  or  ≥  60%  FEV1  percent 
predicted], age, gender, and MIC category [≤ 8 or > 8 µg/mL]) for the ITT or PP datasets.  
There was an increase in adjusted mean percent change in FEV1 from Day 0 to Day 7 in all treatment 
groups (5.03% in the placebo group, 7.59% in the 75 mg AZLI group, and 9.74% in the 225 mg AZLI 
group).  The  difference  of  4.71%  between  the  225  mg  AZLI  and  placebo  groups  was  statistically 
significant (CI: 0.06, 9.35), however, it was not confirmed by the PP dataset. None of the results for 
the  remaining  spirometry  tests  (FEV1,  FVC,  and  FEF25–75)  was  statistically  significant  at  any 
timepoint. 
For FEV1 and FVC, mean absolute and percent changes were greater at Day 7 than they were at Day 
14 for all treatment groups. For FEF25–75, the mean percent change from Day 0 at Day 7 was similar 
to that at Day 14 for the 75 mg AZLI group, and slightly smaller for the 225 mg AZLI group.  
There was a mean reduction in log10 PA CFUs at Days 7 and 14 in both AZLI treatment groups, and 
the mean reductions in the 225 mg group were slightly larger than those in the 75 mg AZLI group. The 
difference (CI) between the 225 mg AZLI and placebo groups in change in log10 PA CFUs from Days 
0 to 14 of –2.146 (–3.029, –1.263) was highly statistically significant (p-value < 0.0001).  
There were no trends in the numbers of patients who required hospitalization/emergency treatment or 
anti-PA antibiotics during the trial.  
There was no statistically significant difference between the placebo and 225 mg AZLI groups in the 
numbers of patients unable to expectorate sputum at Day 14. There was a potential loss of power in 
the trial  because there  were  only  105  evaluable  patients in the  ITT  dataset,  which  was  less  than the 
planned sample size of 138, and this may have contributed to the lack of statistical significance shown 
in the results. 
Microbiology results 
The majority of patients in each treatment group showed no changes in the presence or absence of the 
pathogens tested. After dosing, PA infection disappeared from two patients in the 75 mg AZLI group 
(Day 28), and three and seven patients in the 225 mg AZLI group (Days 7 and 14, respectively). PA 
infection did not disappear at any postdosing day for any patients in the placebo group. There were no 
notable differences between treatments in the numbers of patients becoming positive after dosing for 
any of the pathogens tested (S aureus, B cepacia, S maltophilia, or A xylosoxidans).  There were no 
notable differences between treatment groups in the numbers of patients who were positive at Day 0 
and became negative for any of the other pathogens tested.  
There were no notable increases from Day 0 in MIC50 or MIC90 (using all PA isolates and the PA 
isolate  with  the  highest  MIC  from  each  patient)  in  any  treatment  group,  indicating  there  was  no 
evidence of reduced susceptibility of PA to aztreonam.  
There  were  no  notable  increases  from  Day  0  in  the  numbers  of  patients  whose  PA  isolate  with  the 
highest  MIC  was  above  the  parenteral  susceptibility  breakpoint  for  aztreonam  (>  8  µg/ml)  in  either 
AZLI treatment group. 
Results of Post Hoc Exploratory Analyses  
24/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results of post hoc exploratory analyses suggested that FEV1 % predicted values were improved 
in patients with FEV1 values less than 75% of predicted at Day 0 in the 225 mg AZLI group after 7 
days  of  treatment  (with  a  treatment  difference  of  9.0%  [CI:1.9,16.2])  but  this  effect  was  not 
maintained at Day 14. Bronchodilator use was associated with positive impact on the lung function. 
The most common drug-related AE was cough, which was related to dose level in its incidence and 
severity. 
Overall, the power of the trial to detect relevant differences between active treatments and placebo was 
compromised because of the small number of evaluable patients and the mild to moderate CF disease 
severity regarding lung function at baseline (approx. 80% had FEV1 ≥ 60% of predicted). Based on 
the  above  results,  the  applicant  concluded  to  choose  for  a  28  day  course  AZLI  75 mg  BID  or  TID 
dosing for further clinical Phase III trials.  
•  Main studies  
CP-AI-005:  A  Phase  3,  Double-blind,  Multicentre,  Randomised,  Placebo-controlled  Trial  with 
Aztreonam  Lysinate  for  Inhalation  in  Cystic  Fibrosis  Patients  with  Pulmonary  P.  aeruginosa 
Requiring Frequent Antibiotics (AIR-CF2). 
This trial was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of a 28-day treatment with Aztreonam Lysine 
for Inhalation (AZLI) and the ability of AZLI to maintain or improve clinical status following a 28-
day  course  of  Tobramycin  Inhalation  Solution  (TNS,  TOBI)  therapy  in  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  patients 
with pulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA). 
CP-AI-007:  A  Phase  3,  Double-blind,  Multicentre,  Multinational,  Randomised,  Placebo-
controlled Trial Evaluating Aztreonam Lysinate for Inhalation in Cystic Fibrosis Patients with 
Pulmonary P. aeruginosa (AIR-CF1) 
This trial was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of a 28-day treatment with aztreonam lysine 
for  inhalation  (AZLI)  (75  mg  three  times  daily  [TID])  compared  to  placebo  in  cystic  fibrosis  (CF) 
patients with lung disease due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) infection. 
METHODS 
Study design and participants  
CP-AI-005 and CP-AI-007 were multi-centre, randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trials in 
which 211 CF patients (all from the US; 56 centres) and 164 CF patients (53 sites in total, 40 in the 
US, 5 in Canada, 7 in Australia, and 1 in New Zealand) were included respectively.  Mean ages (SD) 
were 26(10) and 27 (13) years respectively. 
The design and treatment setting of these studies were not as such that they would qualify for the “on 
demand” maintenance therapy of chronic PA lung infection.  Data indicated that included patients had 
to have stable pulmonary disease (and stable co-medication) and a recent positive sputum culture for 
PA, were >6 years of age with PA and FEV1 ≥ 25% to ≤ 75% predicted at Visit 1 and were treated 
with AZLI or placebo using the PARI eFlow Nebuliser for 28 days. Overall, > 60 % of the patients in 
both studies had lung function FEV1 ≥ 50% of predicted at baseline.  
In  both  studies,  main  exclusion  criteria  were  patients  who  had  a  history  of  sputum  or  throat  swab 
culture  yielding  B.  cepacia  in  the  previous  2  years.  Similarly  patients  with  a  history  of  daily 
continuous oxygen supplementation or requirement for more than 2 L/minute at night were excluded.  
Similarly, patients with a chest radiograph at Visit 1 (or within the previous 90 days of Visit I), with 
abnormalities indicating a significant acute finding (eg, lobar infiltrate and atelectasis, pneumothorax, 
or pleural effusion) were excluded.  
25/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnant  females  or  females  of  child  bearing  potential  who  were  lactating  or  (in  the  opinion  of  the 
investigator) not practising an acceptable method of birth control were also excluded. 
Treatments 
CP-AI-005:  Patients were screened for eligibility at Visit 1 (Day -42) and returned to the centre for 
Visit 2 after a 14-day evaluation period. At Visit 2 (Day -28), patients were randomised and began a 
28-day course of TNS. At Visit 3 (Day 0), following completion of the 28-day course of TNS, patients 
began treatment at the clinic with their randomised therapy, either AZLI (twice daily [BID] or three 
times daily [TID]) or volume-matched placebo (BID or TID), and continued treatment at home for a 
total of 28 days, with a clinic visit (including one of the daily doses) after 14 days of treatment (Visit 4 
[Day 14]) and at the end of treatment (Visit 5 [Day 28]).  
Patients  returned  for  visits  every  2  weeks  for  8  weeks  after  the  end  of  the  AZLI/placebo  treatment 
(Visits 6 to 9 [Days 42 to 84]).  TNS was self-administered using the PARI LC PLUS® Jet nebuliser, 
and AZLI was self-administered using the PARI eFlow® Electronic Nebuliser (eFlow). All doses of 
AZLI/placebo were administered after using a short-acting bronchodilator. 
In this study, all patients had received at least 3 courses (mean 5.3) of TNS (TOBI) in the previous 12 
months; in addition, inhaled Colistin (antibiotic) was also used in some patients in pre-study period. 
The trial population was generally extensively co-medicated with medicinal products for obstructive 
airway  diseases  (99%  of  patients)  such  as  salbutamol  (89%  of  patients),  fluticasone  propionate  w/ 
salmeterol (56% of patients), and dornase alpha (85% of patients). Systemic azithromycin was used in 
70% of the patients. 
CP-AI-007:  Patient eligibility  was  initially  assessed at  a  Screening  Visit that  occurred  7 to  14  days 
prior to the baseline visit (Day 0). Those patients who continued to meet eligibility criteria at Day 0 
were randomized and began a 28-day course of AZLI TID or placebo TID. Patients returned for clinic 
visits at Day 14, an end of treatment visit at Day 28, and a follow-up visit 14 days after the last dose of 
the  trial  drug  (Day  42).  AZLI/placebo  was  self-administered  using  the  PARI  eFlow®  Electronic 
Nebuliser  (eFlow).  All  doses  of  AZLI/placebo  were  administered after  using  a  short-  or  long-acting 
bronchodilator. Patients in this trial could be eligible to enrol in an open-label follow-on trial, CP-AI-
006. 
In  this  trial,  the  patients  were co-medicated  with  medicines  for  obstructive  airway  diseases  (93%  of 
patients) such as salbutamol (79% of patients), fluticasone propionate w/ salmeterol (40% of patients). 
Azithromycin use was not allowed.  
In  both  studies  a  bronchodilator  (BD)  was  administered  before  each  dose  of  AZLI  or  placebo  to 
potentially improve drug deposition and to prevent bronchospasm. 
There was generally a high level of treatment compliance in the trials (>90%, by counting used and 
unused vials). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
CP-AI-005:  
The primary endpoint was time to need for IV or inhaled anti-PA antibiotics other than trial drug with 
documented symptom(s) predictive of pulmonary exacerbation (such as decreased exercise tolerance, 
increased  cough,  increased  sputum/chest  congestion,  decreased  appetite)  following  start  of  blinded 
study drug. If the patient needed inhaled or IV antibiotics for at least one of the reasons above, he/she 
was withdrawn from the trial. If at least one of the four symptoms was present, he/she was considered 
an event patient for the primary analysis. 
The secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
26/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a.  Clinical symptoms as assessed by the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire – Revised (CFQ-R) 
respiratory domain 
b.  Change in pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1], FEV1 percent of 
predicted, forced vital capacity [FVC] and forced expiratory flow from 25% to 75% [FEF25–
75]) 
c.  Hospitalization: time to hospitalization, number of days hospitalized, proportion of patients 
hospitalized, and percent of days hospitalized 
d.  School and/or work missed: number of missed school/work days, proportion of patients 
missing school/work, and percent of school/work days missed 
e.  Change in CFQ-R non respiratory domains 
f.  Physician’s and patient’s assessment of change in symptoms using the Global Rating of 
Change Questionnaire (GRCQ) 
g.  Percent change in weight 
h.  Change in body mass index (BMI) 
i.  Change in CF symptoms and severity 
j.  Change in patient’s ability to produce sputum 
k.  Change in log10 PA colony-forming units (CFUs) in sputum 
CP-AI-007: 
The primary endpoint was change from Day 0 (baseline) to Day 28 in clinical symptoms as assessed 
by  the  respiratory  domain of  the  CFQ-R).  The  CFQ-R  was  administered  at  Days  0,  14,  28,  and  42/ 
Early Termination in a similar fashion as in study CP-AI-005. 
The key secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
a.  Percent change in FEV1 from Day 0 to Day 28 
b.  Change in log10 PA colony-forming units (CFUs) in sputum from Day 0 to Day 28 
c.  Proportion of patients receiving IV or inhaled anti-PA antibiotics other than trial drug through 
nominal Day 42 
d.  Proportion of patients hospitalized through nominal Day 42 
e.  Other secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
f.  Change from baseline (Day 0) to Day 14 and Day 42 in clinical symptoms as assessed by the 
CFQ-R respiratory domain 
g.  Change in pulmonary function (FEV1 percent of predicted, AUC analysis of change in 
FEV1 [L] from Days 0 to 42, change in forced vital capacity [FVC], and change in forced 
expiratory flow from 25% to 75% [FEF25–75]) 
h.  Change in the CFQ-R non respiratory domains 
i.  Percent of days and number of days hospitalized 
j.  Use of non trial drug anti-PA antibiotics (oral and overall) 
k.  Change in CF symptoms and severity 
l.  Missed school and/or work days due to CF 
m.  Change in patient’s ability to produce sputum 
n.  Percent change in weight 
o.  Change in Body Mass Index (BMI) 
Measurements of the secondary endpoints were similar to those in study CP-AI-005. 
This holds also for obtaining and handling of sputum for microbiological evaluations. 
In  both  studies  other  evaluations  were  aztreonam  concentrations  in  plasma  and  sputum  and 
microbiological  measurements  such  as  disappearance  or  appearance  of  other  pathogens  (S.  aureus, 
Burkholderia  cepacia,  Stenotrophomonas  maltophilia,  Achromobacter  xylosoxidans);  and  MICs  of 
aztreonam for PA. 
Furthermore, criteria for evaluation of Safety were AEs, hematology and serum chemistry, vital signs, 
and airway reactivity. 
27/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation and sample size 
CP-AI-005: Patients were randomized centrally in a 2:2:1:1 fashion to one of four treatment groups: 
AZLI BID, AZLI TID, placebo BID, or placebo TID. The randomization code was generated by an 
independent third party. 
CP-AI-007: The planned trial size was approximately 140 patients randomised in a 1:1 ratio to AZLI 
TID or placebo TID. There were 164 patients included in both the Safety population and the Intent-to-
treat (ITT) population. 
Randomization was stratified by disease severity (FEV1 percent of predicted ≥ 25% to ≤ 50% and > 
50% to ≤ 75%). 
Blinding (masking) 
For both studies, treatment assignments of AI or placebo were blinded to trial patients, the sponsor, the 
contract research organizations, and other trial vendor(s) and trial personnel, except for the delegated 
personnel who reviewed the randomization lists and drug allocation for accuracy. 
The investigator was to contact the medical monitor if he/she considered unblinding to be necessary 
for the safety of the patient.   The DMC could decide at any point that unblinding was necessary and 
could temporarily stop the trial for concerns of patient safety. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow/ Numbers analysed 
Many  patients  took  part  in  more  than  one  efficacy  studies.  The  figure  below  illustrates  the 
participation of patients across studies.  
28/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of Subjects for study CP-AI-005: 
Population  
Planned   
Enrolled  
Safety  
ITT  
PP  
Placebo  
75 mg AZLI 
Treatment 
BID   TID  
—  
41  
38  
38  
37  
—  
41 
38 
38  
35  
BID   TID  
—  
82  
69 
69  
62  
—  
82  
 66  
66  
59  
Total 
Approx 250 
247a 
211 
211 
193 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1:2:2 ratio to Placebo BID:Placebo TID:AZLI BID:AZLI TID. 
The Safety and ITT populations were identical. 
a One patient received TNS but was not randomised and is included in the Enrolled total only. 
CP-AI-007:    There  were  164  patients  included  in  both  the  Safety  population  and  the  Intent-to-treat 
(ITT) population.  Patient flow is shown hereafter: 
29/76 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5:  Populations for Analysis (Safety, ITT, and PP) and Reasons for Exclusion from Populations by 
Actual Treatment Received. 
Placebo 
(N = 84) 
n (%) 
75 mg 
Aztreonam 
lysine 
(N = 80) 
n (%) 
83 
80 (100) 
0 
7 (8.3) 
84 (100) 
0 
80 (100) 
0 
83 
84 (100) 
0 
71 (84.5) 
- 
1 (1.2) 
74 (92.5) 
- 
0 
No. of patients randomized 
No. of patients in Safety population 
Reasons for exclusion from Safety population: 
Patient did not receive at least one dose of AI/placebo 
No. of patients in ITT populationa 
Reasons for exclusion from ITT population: 
Patient did not receive at least one dose of AI/placebo 
No. of patients in PP population by actual treatment 
Reason for exclusion from PP population: 
Did not comply with an inclusion or exclusion criterion, 
which based on medical review, impacted endpoints 
Did not use at least 66% of vials based on relative 
compliance or 
was not treated for at least 14 days 
Last dose before Visit 4 (Day 28) was >7 days before Visit 
4 date 
Used antipseudomonal antibiotic between Visit 1 and 7 
days before 
Visit 4 (Day 28) 
Recorded changes in antipseudomonal, high dose ibuprofen, 
(prophylactic use), systemic corticosteroid therapy use, 
dornase alfa, 
or chest physiotherapy between Visit 1 (Day -14) and Visit 
4 (Day 28 
Patient was given non sequential randomization number for 
the stratum 
Attended pre-Visit 4 early termination visit more than 7 
days after 
starting an anti pseudomonal antibiotic 
A patient may be excluded for more than one reason. 
Two patients randomized to receive AI were withdrawn before receiving trial drug. 
a One Patient was randomized to receive 75 mg AI TID but was treated with placebo in error 
1 (1.2) 
1 (1.3) 
4 (4.8) 
1 (1.3) 
5 (6.0) 
1 (1.3) 
5 (6.0) 
5 (6.0) 
3 (3.8) 
3 (3.8) 
0 
Total 
(N = 164) 
n (%) 
166 
164 (100) 
0 
164 (100) 
0 
145 (88.4) 
- 
1 (0.6) 
10 (6.1) 
8 (4.9) 
6 (3.7) 
5 (3.0) 
1 (0.6) 
6 (3.7) 
Recruitment 
In CP-AI-005 date of first enrolment was 24 February 2005 and date of last follow-up was September 
2006.  
In CP-AI-007 date of first enrolment was 10 June 2005 and date of last follow-up was April 2007.  
Conduct of the study 
CP-AI-005 
-  The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (CFF) formed a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) to monitor 
all phases of CF drug development and to develop a core of expertise specifically related to CF. 
An  independent  Data  Monitoring  Committee  (DMC),  a  trial-specific  subcommittee  of  the  CFF-
DSMB, was formed to monitor safety for this trial. The DMC was chosen by the DSMB Chair based 
on trial content and patient safety concerns. The appointed DMC Chair and the sponsor had a DMC 
charter with guidelines for notification and data safety reviews, including comparison of safety data 
from the BID and TID treatment groups. 
30/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Two  unblinded  interim  safety  reviews  were  submitted  to  the  CFF-DSMB.  The  first  review  was 
performed on data up to 25 August 2005, when 39 patients had been randomized. The second review 
was  performed  on  data  up  to  06  December  2005,  when  128  patients  had  been  randomized.  These 
reviews included safety data and were prepared by an unblinded independent party that had no other 
role in the trial and was not involved in analysis of the trial at the time of database lock. 
 - The protocol amendment was issued 17 February 2005. This amendment was introduced to amend 
among others the list of secondary efficacy endpoints. However, the protocol amendment was issued 
before  any  patients  were  screened  for  participation  in  the  trial,  therefore  the  trial  was  conducted 
according to the amended protocol for all patients. 
- The majority of patients in this trial were randomized after Day -28, but before Day 0, for practical 
reasons.  This  may  have  affected  the  order  in  which  patients  were  randomized  to  the  trial,  however 
because complete treatment blocks were maintained, there should be no noticeable effect on the results 
of the trial. 
CP-AI-007 
The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (CFF) involvement was largely as in the former study. 
No formal DMC interim analyses were planned or conducted for CP-AI-007 although it was planned. 
Several protocol amendments were performed.  
Baseline data 
Treatment groups were well balanced for most demographic and baseline characteristics (see further 
for Table 10: Demographic and Baseline Characteristics: Integrated Phase 3 Controlled Trials).  
Outcomes and estimation 
CP-AI-005 
The primary efficacy variable was the time to need for inhaled or IV antipseudomonal antibiotics due 
to  pre-defined  symptoms  (decreased  exercise  tolerance,  increased  cough,  increased  sputum/chest 
congestion,  decreased  appetite).  By  chance,  more  patients  who  subsequently  responded  to  TNS 
therapy were randomized to the TID arm. 
A significant difference from the pooled placebo group in time to antibiotic need was observed in the 
AZLI  BID  group  (p  =  0.0019),  but  not  in  the  AZLI  TID  group  (p=0.1816),  based  on  all  events, 
including  those  occurring  beyond  56  days  after  the  end  of  AZLI/placebo  therapy  (Day  84,  end  of 
controlled trial). The median time to need for inhaled or IV antibiotics due to pre-defined symptoms 
(measured  from  Day  0)  was  estimated  to  be  21  days  longer  in  the  pooled  AZLI  group  than  in  the 
pooled  placebo  group  (92  days  vs.  71  days,  p  =  0.0070).  See  table  6  for  the  results  of  the  primary 
endpoint. 
Table 6. Study CP-AI-005 Main efficacy results: Primary endpoint (shaded) 
Efficacy Endpoint  
Primary Endpoint 
Use of non-study anti-PA antibiotics 
 Median time (Days) to need of IV or  
         inhaled antibiotics 
% of patients using IV or inhaled 
antibiotics 
% of patients using antibiotics overall 
Pooled 
Placebo 
(n = 76) 
AZLI BID
(N = 69) 
AZLI TID 
(N = 66) 
Pooled 
AZLI 
(n = 135) 
TD 
(P-value) 
71 
56.6 
60.5 
ne 
87 
36.2 
47.8 
43.9 
59.1 
92 
40.0 
53.3 
21 
(0.0070a) 
— 
— 
a  p-values are based on the Log-Rank test and compare AZLI Pooled vs Placebo Pooled.  
Notes: - not applicable; TD = Treatment Difference; ne = not estimable 
31/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As to the main secondary endpoints, a significant difference from the pooled placebo group in change 
in pulmonary function (FEV1, FEV1 % predicted) was observed in both AZLI treatment groups at day 
28. A similar pattern of results were obtained for PA CFU density in sputum. The effects of BID and 
TID  AZLI  were  similar  (table  6).  In  order  to  assess  the  PA  CFU  density  in  sputum  findings 
definitively, applicant was requested to provide the overview tables together with patient listings for 
collected  sputum  volumes  and  CFU  counts  on  which  the  Log10  PA  CFUs  were  based  (these  were 
denoted as being available on request). 
The  response to  AZLI  treatment  as  measured  by  mean  (adj.)  change in  percent change  in  FEV1 (L) 
decreased  importantly  from  Day  28  to  Day  42  seemingly  more  in  the  AZLI  TID  group.    The  same 
holds for the mean (adjusted) change in FEV1 % predicted. A similar pattern of results were obtained 
for  PA  CFU  density  in  sputum.  At  two  weeks  post-treatment,  CFU  density  increased,  although 
respiratory  symptoms  and  pulmonary  function  still  showed  some  improvement  over  baseline  for 
AZLI-treated patients, PA CFU density was near, or exceeded, baseline values. 
Based on patient perception of change in their respiratory symptoms domain scores as measured with 
the  newly  developed  variable  CFQ-R  (a  change  of  5  points  being  the  minimum  change  that  can  be 
reliably  detected  by  an  individual  patient  on  this  scale),  clinically  significant  improvement  in 
respiratory symptoms among BID and TID AZLI-treated patients compared to placebo at both Days 
14 and 28 were observed.  
Domains  of  the  CFQ-R  related  to  for  example  physical  functioning,  role  limitations/school 
performance,  weight  disturbances,  and  treatment  burden  were  also  reported  to  show  some 
improvement in this short-term study. 
Overall, the observed improvements in pulmonary function and PA CFU density obtained with AZLI 
75 mg BID or TID in this short –term study of 1 course of 28 days versus placebo in extensively TOBI 
pre-treated  CF  patients  with  chronic  PA  lung  infection  are  encouraging.  Of  note,  however,  these 
patients had completed a 28-day TNS course immediately prior to AZLI therapy and showed a 0.9% 
mean increase in FEV1 % predicted during the TNS run in period. The observed effects within AZLI 
patients  should  be  considered  as  the  resultant  of  the  TNS  and  AZLI  courses.  These  improvements 
diminished  importantly  within  2  weeks  after cessation  of  the  AZLI  treatment  with  PA  CFU  density 
nearing, or exceeding, baseline values. The AZLI TID seemed to perform slightly better with regard to 
the latter parameter. In order to assess the PA CFU density in sputum findings definitively, applicant 
was  requested  to  provide  the  overview  tables  together  with  patient  listings  for  collected  sputum 
volumes and CFU counts on which the Log10 PA CFUs were based. [However, sputum volumes were 
not  available;  see  earlier  comment  above)].  As  expected  the  median  time  to  need  of  inhaled  or  IV 
antibiotics  due  to  pre-defined  symptoms  (measured  from  Day  0)  was  longer  in  the  AZLI  treated 
patients (pooled) than in the placebo treated patients (pooled).  
As  to  CFQ-R,  mean  (adjusted)  change  in  respiratory  symptoms  at  Day 28  appeared  to  confirm  the 
effects  observed  on  the  pulmonary  function  variables.  Of  note,  however,  the  rather  high  categorical 
placebo response (37 % improved versus 51.5% in the pooled AZLI group with improvement defined 
as increase in score of ≥ 5 points); CFQ-R measurements at 2, 4 and 6 weeks post-treatment were not 
performed. In the controlled phase of the study the correlations between percent change in FEV1 and 
actual change in CFQ-R  respiratory domain scores were poor in the AZLI BID, AZLI TID and pooled 
placebo groups (correlation coefficient = 0.33, 0.24, and 0.33 for AZLI BID, AZLI TID, and pooled 
placebo, respectively).  
32/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Study CP-AI-005 Main secondary efficacy results 
Pooled 
Placebo 
(n = 76) 
AZLI BID
(N = 69) 
AZLI TID
(N = 66) 
Pooled 
AZLI 
(n = 135) 
TD 
95% CI* 
(p-value) 
Efficacy Endpoint  
Main Secondary Endpoints 
   Change in pulmonary function  
Mean (adjusted) percent change  
       in FEV1 at Day 28 
Mean (adjusted) percent change  
       in FEV1 at Day 42 
Mean (adjusted) percent change  
       in FEV1 predicted at Day 28 
Mean (adjusted) percent change  
       in FEV1 predicted at Day 42 
 Change in log10 PA CFUs in sputum  
Mean (adjusted) change  
       in sputum log10 PA CFUs at Day 28 
Mean (adjusted) change  
       in sputum log10 PA CFUs at Day 42 
  Clinical symptoms as assessed by  
   CFQ-R respiratory symptoms domain 
Mean (adjusted) changec  
       in respiratory symptoms at Day 14 
Mean (adjusted) change c  
       in respiratory symptoms at Day 28 
–2.4 
3.8 
4.0 
3.9 
0.9 
(0.0033) 
–5.0 
-2.52 
−5.14 
1.6 
0.1 
4.01  
4.15 
1.83  
0.26  
4.08 
1.06 
0.225 
–0.49 
–0.37 
–0.434 
0.171 
0.46 
0.02 
0.244 
–2.06 
2.86 
4.10 
3.47 
–0.66 
5.10 
3.56 
4.34 
6.3 
2.50, 10.060a 
(0.0012) 
5.8 
1.97, 9.72a 
6.6 
2.81, 10.40a 
(0.0007) 
6.2 
2.26,  10.15a 
(0.0022) 
–0.66 
-1.13,-0.19b 
(0.0059) 
0.074 
–0.43, 0.57b 
(0.7703) 
5.53 
1.35, 9.70 
(0.0097) 
5.01 
0.81, 9.21 
(0.0196) 
Categorical result@:  
        % of patients who improved at Day 28 
37.0 
  % of patients who worsened at 
38.4 
55.2 
26.9 
47.7 
29.2 
51.5 
28.0 
— 
— 
Day 28 
*    95% CI; Treatment difference:  pooled AZLI – pooled placebo    
@   Improved – increase in score of ≥ 5 points (MCID), worsened – decrease in score of ≥ 5 points 
a From  ANCOVA models including terms for treatment group as a fixed effect 
and Day 0 FEV1 % predicted as a covariate.  
b From ANOVA model including treatment and baseline highest aztreonam MIC for PA. 
c From ANCOVA. Baseline (Day 0) CFQ-R respiratory domain score included as a covariate. 
Notes: - not applicable; TD = Treatment Difference 
33/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CP-AI-007 
The primary efficacy variable in this study was CFQ-R based on patient perception of change in their 
respiratory  symptoms  domain  scores.  Clinically  important  improvement  in  respiratory  symptoms 
among  TID  AZLI-treated  patients  compared  to  placebo  at  both  Days  14  and  28  were  observed. 
Treatment  difference  in  favour  of  AZLI  was  (9.71)  at  Day  28.    The  response  to  AZLI  treatment  as 
measured by mean (adjusted) change in CFQ-R respiratory domain score decreased from 7.08 at Day 
28 to 0.62  at Day 42 (14 days after the end of treatment) but the treatment difference between AZLI 
treatment and placebo remained statistically significant. See table 8 for primary endpoint results. 
Table 8  Study CP-AI-007  Primary efficacy results 
Efficacy Endpoint  
Primary Endpoint 
Placebo 
(n = 84) 
AZLI 
(n = 80) 
TD 
95% CI 
(p-value) 
Clinical symptoms as assessed by CFQ-R respiratory symptoms domain 
Mean (adjusted) change in respiratory symptoms at Day 14 
–0.98 
7.01 
Mean (adjusted) change in respiratory symptoms at Day 28 
–2.63 
7.08 
Mean (adjusted) change in respiratory symptoms at Day 42 
Categorical result@: % of patients who improved at Day 28 
Categorical result@: % of patients who improved at Day 42 
% of patients who worsened at Day 28 
% of patients who worsened at Day 42 
−5.71 
37.3 
30.1 
44.6 
51.8 
0.62 
56.3 
45.0 
25.0 
36.3 
7.98  3.50, 12.47a 
(0.0006) 
9.71  4.31, 15.11a 
(0.0005) 
6.33  1.22, 11.43a 
( 0.0154) 
0.0055b 
— 
— 
— 
— 
@     Improved – increase in score of ≥ 5 points (MCID), worsened – decrease in score of ≥ 5 points 
a      From ANCOVA including baseline (Day 0) CFQ-R respiratory symptoms domain score and disease 
severity as covariates. 
b     p-values from Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by categorized baseline response and baseline 
disease severity stratum.  
(- )  not applicable 
At Day 28, AZLI treated patients in the more severe disease category (FEV1 ≤ 50% of predicted; n = 
60: 30 AZLI and 30 placebo) showed an adjusted mean change in CFQ-R respiratory domain score of 
4.22  (with treatment  difference  of  8.25 and  95%  CI    :    -1.14,  17.64;  p= 0.0839)  versus  10.14  (with 
treatment difference of  10.90 and 95% CI : 4.16, 17.64 ; p = 0.0018 ) in patients with the less severe 
disease category (FEV1> 50% of predicted; n = 103: 50 AZLI and 53 placebo). 
Similarly, AZLI-treated patients responded significantly better than placebo treated patients at day 28 
in the main secondary endpoints change in pulmonary function and PA CFU density in sputum. See 
the  following  table.  The  response  to  AZLI  treatment  as  measured  by  mean  (adj.)  change  in  percent 
change  in  FEV1  (L)  decreased  from  3.58  at  Day  28  to  1.55    at  Day  42  but the treatment  difference 
between AZLI treatment and placebo remained statistically significant. 
34/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9  Study CP-AI-007  Main secondary efficacy results 
Efficacy Endpoint  
Placebo 
(n = 84) 
AZLI 
(n = 80) 
TD 
95% CI 
(p-value) 
Main Secondary Endpoints 
Change in pulmonary function  
Mean (adjusted) percent change in FEV1 at Day 28 
–2.4 
7.9 
10.3 
Mean (adjusted) percent change in FEV1 at Day 42 
–2.6 
3.1 
5.7 
Mean (adjusted) percent change in FEV1 predicted at 
–1.68 
3.58 
5.25 
Mean (adjusted) percent change in FEV1 predicted at 
–1.56 
1.55 
3.11 
Day 28 
Day 42 
Change in log10 PA CFUs in sputum  
Mean (adjusted) change in sputum log10 PA CFUs at 
0.069 
–1.384 
–1.453 
Day 28 
Day 42 
Mean (adjusted) change in sputum log10 PA CFUs at 
–0.010 
–0.078 
–0.069 
6.29, 14.30 
(< 0.0001) 
2.07, 9.4 
(0.0024) 
3.21, 7.30 a 
(< 0.0001) 
1.10, 5.13 a 
(0.0027) 
-2.12, -0.79b 
(< 0.0001) 
-0.67, 0.54b 
(0.8218) 
Use of non-study antipseudomonal antibiotics 
Median time (Days) to need of IV or inhaled 
antibiotics 
% of patients using IV or inhaled antibiotics 
% of patients using oral antibiotics 
% of patients using antibiotics overall 
ne 
22.6 
25.0 
35.7 
ne 
15.0 
11.3 
17.5 
— 
— 
— 
— 
0.2364c 
0.0267c 
0.0131c 
a  From  ANCOVA models including terms for treatment group as a fixed effect 
and Day 0 FEV1 % predicted as a covariate.  
b  From ANOVA model including treatment and baseline disease severity as fixed effects in the model. 
c  p-values are based on Fisher’s Exact test. 
Notes: - not applicable;  TD = Treatment Difference 
PA  CFU  density  adjusted  mean  change  improved  significantly  in  favour  of  AZLI  at  Day 28.  At 
Day 42, PA CFU density increased and became slightly lower than baseline values in both treatment 
groups. 
Disease severity had a similar pattern of effect on mean (adj.) change in percent change in FEV1 (L) as 
for CFQ-R respiratory domain scores. At Day 28, patients in the more severe disease category (FEV1 
≤  50%  of  predicted;  n =  60:  30  AZLI  and  30  placebo)  showed  an adjusted  mean  percent  change  in 
FEV1  of  6.3%  on  AI  compared  with  -4.0%  on  placebo.  Patients  in  the  less  severe  disease  category 
(FEV1> 50% of predicted; n = 104: 50 AZLI and 54 placebo) trended towards greater improvement at 
Day 28 (9.5%) on AZLI than those in the more severe disease category and less deterioration (-0.6%) 
on placebo than those in the more severe disease category. The treatment differences between AZLI 
and  placebo  were significant  regardless  of  disease  severity  category,  and  results  for the  two disease 
severity  categories  were  similar:  10.3%,  p  =  0.0061,  in  the  more  severe  category,  and  10.1%,  p 
<0.0001, in the less severe disease category.  
Fewer  hospitalizations,  due  to  pulmonary  exacerbation  were  observed  in  the  AZLI  treated  group 
compared  to  placebo  between  Days  0  and  42  (2/4  and  8/12  patients  hospitalized  resp.)  and  most  of 
them were hospitalized after their last treatment dose.  
35/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Like  in  study  CP-AI-005  domains  of  the  CFQ-R  related  to  for  example  physical  functioning  and 
weight disturbances were also reported to show some improvement in this short-term study. 
Overall,  the observed improvements in pulmonary function and PA CFU density obtained with AZLI 
75 mg  TID in this short –term study of 1 course of 28 days versus placebo less extensively TOBI pre-
treated or dornase (and no oral azithromycin allowed) CF patients with chronic PA lung infection are 
encouraging. As in study CP-AI-005, these improvements diminished importantly within 2 weeks after 
cessation  of  the  AZLI  treatment  with  PA  CFU  density  nearing  baseline  values  with  no  significant 
difference  between  treatment  groups.  In  order  to  assess  the  PA  CFU  density  in  sputum  findings 
definitively  Applicant  is  requested  to  provide  the  overview  tables  together  with  patient  listings  for 
collected  sputum  volumes  and  CFU  counts  on  which  the  Log10  PA  CFUs  were  based.  However, 
sputum volumes were not available; see earlier comment above. 
As  expected,  the  median  time  to  need  of  inhaled  or  IV  antibiotics  due  to  pre-defined  symptoms 
(measured from Day 0) was longer in the AZLI treated patients  than in the placebo treated patients 
but with no significant difference between treatment groups.  
As  to  CFQ-R,  mean  (adjusted)  change  in  respiratory  symptoms  at  Day 28  appeared  to  confirm  the 
effects observed on the pulmonary function variables. Of note, however, the rather sharp decline in the 
AZLI  TID  group  almost  to  baseline  value  whereas  the  mean  (adjusted)  percent  change  in  FEV1 
predicted  at  Day  42  was  still  substantial.  The  correlations  between  percent  change  in  FEV1  and 
change in CFQ-R respiratory domain scores for the ITT (imputed data) population were poor in the 
AZLI TID and placebo group (correlation coefficient = 0.32 for both treatment groups). 
Of note also the high categorical placebo response: 37 % and 56% of patients improved in the placebo 
and the AZLI group respectively, at Day 28. These rates decreased to 30% and 45% respectively, at 
Day 42. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Integrated analysis from studies CP-AI-005 and CP-AI-007 
The  data  below  presents  integrated  data  from  studies  CP-AI-005  and  CP-AI-007  showing  that  the 
treatment groups were well balanced for most demographic and baseline characteristics. There were 
more children (age ≤ 12 years) and fewer adults (age ≥ 18 years) in the pooled AZLI group than in the 
pooled placebo group. The proportion of children was higher in the TID group compared with the BID 
group. Overall, fewer than 10% of the enrolled patients were between the ages of 6 and 12, reflecting 
relatively  small  proportion  (approximately  17%)  of  CF patients  in  the  US  with  moderate  to  severe 
lung  disease  (FEV1  < 70%  predicted).  The  mean  FEV1  %  predicted  at  baseline  was  approximately 
55%. 
Table 10. Demographic and Baseline Characteristics: Integrated Phase 3 Controlled Trials 
Male n (%) 
Mean (SD) Age (years) 
Age Subgroup n (%) 
Placebo Pooled 
(N = 160) 
90 (56.3) 
29.9 (13.0) 
≥ 6 to ≤ 12 Years n (%) 
> 12 to < 18 Years n (%)  23 (14.4) 
≥ 18 Years n (%) 
132 (82.5) 
5 (3.1) 
Race n (%) 
African American 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Other 
Mean (SD) Weight (kg) 
Mean (SD) BMI (kg/m2) 
0 
151 (94.4) 
8 (5.0) 
1 (0.6) 
61.2 (14.2) 
21.8 (3.5) 
AZLI 
75 mg BID 
(N = 69) 
38 (55.1) 
26.5 (10.7) 
4 (5.8) 
13 (18.8) 
52 (75.4) 
3 (4.3) 
61 (88.4) 
5 (7.2) 
0 
57.2 (12.6) 
20.9 (3.3) 
36/76 
75 mg TID 
(N = 146) 
86 (58.9) 
25.9 (11.6) 
16 (11.0) 
22 (15.1) 
108 (74.0) 
0 
139 (95.2) 
7 (4.8) 
0 
58.9 (17.1) 
21.2 (4.3) 
Pooled 
(N = 215) 
124 (57.7) 
26.1 (11.3) 
20 (9.3) 
35 (16.3) 
160 (74.4) 
3 (1.4) 
200 (93.0) 
12 (5.6) 
0 
58.4 (15.8) 
21.1 (4.0) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean (SD) FEV1 (L) 
Mean (SD) FEV1 % Predicted 
Disease Severity n (%) 
1.87 (0.65) 
54.4 (15.3) 
1.90 (0.65) 
56.2 (15.6) 
1.89 (0.69) 
55.6 (14.9) 
1.89 (0.68) 
55.8 (15.1) 
FEV1 % Predicted 
60 (37.5) 
24 (34.8) 
52 (35.6) 
76 (35.3) 
FEV1 % Predicted 
100 (62.5) 
44 (63.8) 
94 (64.4) 
138 (64.2) 
≤ 50% 
> 50% 
The major difference in the patient groups was their prior use of TNS due to different entry criteria. In 
study  CP-AI-005  the  average  number  of  TNS  courses  used  in  the  previous  12  months  was  5.3, 
compared with 1.8 for CP-AI-007. There were also important differences in co-medications (such as 
use of dornase and oral azithromycin).  
Table 11  Number (%) of Patients Who Used Non-study Anti-PA Antibiotics—Controlled Trials 
CP-AI-005 
Placebo 
Pooled 
(N = 76) 
46 (60.5) 
0.3863 
43 (56.6) 
0.0221 
30 (39.5) 
0.2928 
AZLI BID 
(N = 69) 
33 (47.8) 
AZLI TID 
(N = 66) 
39 (59.1) 
AZLI 
Pooled 
(N = 135) 
72 (53.3) 
25 (36.2) 
29 (43.9) 
54 (40.0) 
19 (27.5) 
24 (36.4) 
43 (31.9) 
CP-AI-007 
Placebo 
TID 
(N = 84) 
30 (35.7) 
0.0131 
19 (22.6) 
0.2364 
21 (25.0) 
AZLI TID 
(N = 80) 
14 (17.5) 
12 (15.0) 
9 (11.3) 
All routesa 
p-valueb 
IV/Inhaled 
p-valueb  
Oral 
p-valueb 
All routes include IV, inhaled, and oral anti-PA antibiotics. 
p-values are based on Fisher’s Exact test and compare AZLI Pooled vs. Placebo Pooled in the 
a 
b 
CP-AI-005 study and AZLI TID vs. Placebo TID in the CP-AI-007 study 
0.0267 
The  applicant  has  performed  a  pooled  analysis  of  the  integrated  results  of  the  controlled  Phase  III 
trials. However, pooling of results from both studies cannot be considered appropriate because of the 
difference  in  the  design  of  the  studies  and  patient  treatment  profile  prior  to  enrolment  and  some 
differences in response due to regions. 
In  addition  a  “Non-responders”  analysis  of  integrated  results  is  also  presented  for  the  individual 
disease-related  outcome  endpoints  if  they  had  a  change  from  baseline  of  ≤  0  in  CFQ-R  respiratory 
symptoms  domain  scores  and  FEV1  (L),  and  if  they  had  a  change  of  ≥  0  log10  PA  CFU  density  in 
sputum.  Overall  non-responders  were  defined  as  no  response  for  each  of  the  non-missing 
disease-related  outcome  endpoints.  Determinations  of  non-responders  were  not  made  for  patients 
missing two or more of the three disease-related outcomes. For each of these endpoints, the AZLI BID 
and pooled AZLI TID and all AZLI treated patients (AZLI) were provided. Overall, the pooled AZLI 
group tended to have (2folds) fewer non-responders than the pooled placebo group.  
Table 12:  Numbers (%) of Non-responders—Integrated Phase 3 Controlled Trials (CP-AI-005 and 
CP-AI-007) 
Placebo 
Pooled 
(N = 160) 
AZLI BID
(N = 69) 
AZLI TID 
(N = 146) 
AZLI Pooled
(N = 215) 
Day 14 
CFQ-R Change from Day 0 
98 (61.3) 
31 (44.9) 
67 (45.9) 
98 (45.6) 
FEV1 Percent Change from Day 0 
91 (56.9) 
24 (34.8) 
49 (33.6) 
73 (34.0) 
Log10 PA CFUs Change from Day 0 
60 (37.5) 
29 (42.0) 
34 (23.3) 
63 (29.3) 
Overall 
Day 28 
41 (25.6) 
6 (8.7) 
18 (12.3) 
24 (11.2) 
CFQ-R Change from Day 0 
98 (61.3) 
30 (43.5) 
69 (47.3) 
99 (46.0) 
37/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Placebo 
Pooled 
(N = 160) 
AZLI BID
(N = 69) 
AZLI TID 
(N = 146) 
AZLI Pooled
(N = 215) 
FEV1 Percent Change from Day 0 
94 (58.8) 
26 (37.7) 
51 (34.9) 
77 (35.8) 
Log10 PA CFUs Change from Day 0 
66 (41.3) 
20 (29.0) 
30 (20.5) 
50 (23.3) 
Overall 
47 (29.4) 
10 (14.5) 
20 (13.7) 
30 (14.0) 
Note: No response is defined as having a change from baseline ≤ 0 (CFQ-R respiratory symptoms domain, 
FEV1) or ≥ 0 (log10 PA CFUs). Overall non-response defined as no response for each of the non-missing disease-
related outcomes (not determined for patients missing two or more of the three disease-related outcomes). 
Analysis of mean relative change in FEV1 % predicted for patient subgroups defined by gender did not 
seem to reveal differences in response to AZLI therapy between male and female patients especially 
when focusing on the (non-pooled) results AZLI groups. 
The analysis of change in mean relative change in FEV1 % predicted for patient subgroups defined by 
age (6–12 years, ≥ 13 to < 18 years, < 18 years and ≥ 18 years)  was compromised  in study CP-AI-
005 due to  the very small number of patients between 6 and 12 years of age (e.g. < 4 AZLI BID and 
placebo groups).   
The results for the other age groups suggested a trend of decreasing response to AZLI BID from the 
age  group  of  ≥  13  years  onwards.  In  study  CP-AI-007,  at  Day  28,  adults  (aged  ≥  18  years;  n  =  58 
AZLI TID), younger patients (aged < 18 years; n = 21 AZLI TID) showed an adjusted mean percent 
change in FEV1 of 8% and 7.5% respectively compared with 8% for adolescents (aged > 12 years to < 
18 years; n = 10 AZLI) and 3.0% for children (aged ≥ 6 years to ≤ 12 years; n = 11 AZLI TID). The 
corresponding values for placebo treated patients were -2.4%,  -2.9%,  -5.4% and  -8.2% respectively. 
The differences between AZLI and placebo treatments were significant for adults and adolescents and 
trended to be so in the other age categories. 
The magnitude of response to TID AZLI 75 mg in patients of study CP-AI-007 was larger than that in 
patients  on  either  BID  or  TID  regimens  of  study  CP-AI-005  with  regard  to  pulmonary  function,  in 
respiratory symptoms, and PA density. In the former study there was also a region effect; at Day 28, 
patients in the US and Canada (n = 124: 62 AZLI and 62 placebo) showed an adjusted mean change in 
CFQ-R respiratory domain score of 5.89 (treatment difference vs. placebo: 7.36; p = 0.0223) on AZLI 
compared to 11.65 (treatment difference vs. placebo: 17.29; p = 0.0037) for patients in Australia and 
New Zealand (n = 39: 18 AI and 21 placebo). A similar pattern of effect was seen on the mean (adj.) 
change  in  percent  change  in  FEV1  (L)  as  for  CFQ-R  respiratory  domain  scores.  The  applicant 
suggested  that  seasonal  differences  at  the  time  of  performing  the  trials  at  the  non-American  and 
American (US) sites possibly played a role in causing the apparent regional differences in the results.  
A significant reduction of PA CFU density was seen at day 28 in both placebo controlled trials (CP-
AI-005 and CP-AI-007).   
In CP-AI-005 reduction in PA CFU was seen earlier with TID treatment compared with BID treatment 
on  day  14  however  at  day  28  the  reduction  was  greater  in  BID  treatment  versus  TID  treatment. 
Statistically  significant  reduction  was  achieved  at  day  28.  At  Day  42  PA  CFU  rebounded  to  higher 
values than baseline in BID treatment than TID treatment. 
In study CP-AI-007 statistical significant reduction was seen at day 14 and day 28 of treatment. 
Following  cessation  of  treatment  in  study  CP-AI-007  at  day  42  (14  days  after  treatment)  TID 
treatment arm had a lower PA CFU score than placebo.  
It appears that duration and magnitude of suppression of PA CFU has an effect on rebound of PA CFU 
density.    Also,  PA  susceptibility  to  aztreonam  seemed  to  impact  on  the  magnitude  and  duration  of 
response. PA with MIC ≤ 8 µg/mL was associated with larger reductions in PA sputum density than 
38/76 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
did patients with PA isolates (MIC > 8 µg/mL) treated with AZLI in the Phase III placebo-controlled 
studies.  Patients  with  baseline  PA  with  MIC  ≤  8  µg/mL  to  aztreonam  seemed  to  have  better  lung 
function response [FEV1 % Predicted,  FEV1 (L)] than the small number of patients with baseline PA 
with MIC >8 µg/mL to aztreonam following one 28-day AZLI BID treatment course. Two weeks after 
AZLI  therapy  (day  42),  the  group  of  patients  with  PA  MIC  ≤  8  µg/mL  retained  substantial 
improvement in FEV1; however, FEV1 dropped to below baseline levels for patients infected with PA 
MIC  >  8  µg/mL.    In  the  latter  PA  infection  category,  the  AZLI  TID  regimen  resulted  generally  in 
better response than the AZLI BID regimen but did not seem to result in more durable effect at day 42. 
Overall, based on present analysis of response to AZLI treatment in relation to baseline PA with MIC, 
no definitive correlation could be concluded. 
In  conclusion,  pooling  of  results  from  both  studies  cannot  be  considered  appropriate  because  of  the 
difference  in  the  design  of  the  studies  and  patient  treatment  profile  prior  to  enrolment  and  some 
differences in response due to regions.  
The subgroups by age are too small to draw robust conclusions as to the age dependent performance of 
AZLI  although  in  all  groups  there  was  important  treatment  difference  between  AZLI  and  placebo 
treated  patients.  The  impact  of  PA  susceptibility  to  aztreonam  seems  to  be  important  in  the 
management of these CF patients, although categorical analyses for the relationship between MIC and 
treatment  response  provided  insufficient  evidence  to  establish  a  susceptibility  breakpoint  for  AZLI. 
This  is  reflected  as  such  in  the  SPC  in  section  5.1.  However,  these  issues  deserve  to  be  further 
confirmed in a controlled trial including at least 3 sequential courses of AZLI treatment.  Such a trial 
is currently ongoing.  
Analysis of results across studies versus Literature studies with TNS (TOBI)  
Despite similar enrolment criteria, in both studies, the mean age (years) of patients was greater than 
that  of  patients  enrolled  in  the  TNS  studies  almost  a  decade  ago  (TNS:  218;  CP-AI-005:  26; 
CP-AI-007:  30  years  of  age).  Additionally,  the  mean  FEV1  %  predicted  for  patients  in  the  Phase 3 
placebo  controlled  studies  was  greater  than  that  for  the  TNS  trials  (TNS:  50%8;  CP-AI-005:  55%, 
CP-AI-007: 55%). The increased age and pulmonary function may be partly explained by improved 
treatment, including extensive use of inhaled antibiotics, like in study CP-AI-005. Of note, the primary 
endpoints of the TOBI-study were lung function (FEV1) and the density of PA in sputum at week 20 
i.e. at the end of the third course of TOBI. 
Roughly,  the  present  Day  28  results  with  AZLI  appear  to  be  consistent  with  those  from  two  TNS 
trials, as to the pattern of %-FEV1 improvement and decrease in the treatment off period. The smaller 
reduction  observed  between  days  0  and  28  in  CP-AI-005  may  be  attributed  to  the  TNS  treatment 
during the run-in phase.  
Improvements  in  FEV1  at  Day  28  (12%)  were  larger  in  the  TNS  pivotal  registration  trial  (and 
decreased to 10% after the second and third cycle) than the values at the end of the present 1-cycle 
AZLI  treatment. The  Day  28  AZLI  results from  study  CP-AI-007  seem  to  be  more  similar to  those 
from the small single cycle study with TNS. Comparisons of TNS pivotal trial results with those of 
study CP-AI-005 may not be appropriate because of the specific feature of the latter study (extensive 
prior TNS use at enrolment). 
In  the  pivotal  TNS  study  improvements  in  FEV1  decreased  to  8%  28  days  after  treatment  and 
beginning  of  the  second  and  third  cycle  compared  to  utmost  3%  with  AZLI  TID  14  days  after 
treatment in study CP-AI-007. 
Furthermore, in the TNS pivotal registration larger trial the lung function improvement was higher in 
adolescents than in adults whereas the results of AZLI in this regard are inconsistent; and study CP-
AI-007 did not indicate differences between these two age subgroups.  
8 BW. Ramsey, MS. Pepe et al. N Engl J Med 1999;340:23-30. “Intermittent administration of inhaled tobramycin in patients with cystic 
fibrosis”. 
39/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Study 
Pulmonary 
Function Entry 
Criteriaa 
Table 13. Change in FEV1 and PA CFU Sputum Density from Baseline in Published Studies 
Baseline FEV1 % 
Predicted (mean 
± SD)a 
AZLI BID 
56.3 ± 14.8 
AZLI TID 
55.4 ± 16.2 
CP-AI-005* 
AZLI 
BID  (n= 69) 
TID (n= 66) 
Dose 
(mg)/Duration 
FEV1 
Change 
FEV1 25–75% 
75 mg BID 
75 mg TID 
4% 
4% 
-0.5 
-0.4 
PA Density 
Change 
(Log10) 
CP-AI-007** 
AZLI (all) 
(n= 80) 
TNS 
(n = 258)  
(All)8  
Adolescents 
(n = 63)  
Adults 
(n = 140)  
TNS (n = 53)9  
Colistin5 
(n = 62) 
FEV1 25–75% 
AZLI TID 
54.4 ± 13.4 
75 mg TID 
8% 
–1.4 
FEV1 25–75% 
49.9 ± 15.5 
300 BID/28 days 
12%b 
–2.0 
FEV1 25–75% 
unknown 
300 BID/28 days 
~16%b 
not evaluated 
FEV1 25–75% 
unknown 
300 BID/28 days 
~6%b 
not evaluated 
FEV1 ≥ 25% 
55.4 ± 22.9 
300 BID/28 days 
FEV1 ≥ 25% 
59.4 ± 22.6 
80 BID/28 days 
7%b 
0%b 
–0.9 
–0.6 
a 
b 
* 
**  
Absolute change in FEV1 % predicted, comparison to control after 28 days of therapy 
Relative change in FEV1 % predicted, comparison to control after 28 days of therapy 
After one course of 28 days AZLI which was preceded by an initial course of TNS. 
After one course of 28 days AZLI 
During  the TSI  phase  in  CP-AI-005,  the  improvement  observed  in  patients  measured  by  FEV1  was 
lower than that observed in the early TSI trials. The mechanism for the decreased response is not clear 
since the MICs for TSI observed in this trial were similar to those observed historically. 
[In the pivotal TNS study an interim analysis of a subgroup of 128 patients treated with this regimen 
for 11 months has shown that the improvement in lung function is maintained (increase in FEV1 at 
week 44 as compared with week 0, 9.8 percent; data not shown)]. 
Long term exposure data are not available from the placebo-controlled trials with AZLI.  
In conclusion, the comparisons between AZLI studies are difficult to interpret because of the specific 
feature of study CP-AI-005 i.e. extensive prior TNS use at enrolment in contrast to CP-AI-007. The 
latter study is also more amenable for comparison with the pivotal TNS registration trial and the small 
single cycle comparative trial with TNS vs. colistin inhalational. 
Comparison of the results of CP-AI-007 with those of the pivotal TNS registration trial seems to be in 
favour of TNS with respect to %-FEV1improvement and durability of this effect during the treatment 
off period. As to the pattern of improvements by age category the results of AZLI in this regard are 
inconsistent; moreover, study CP-AI-007 did not indicate differences between adolescents and adults 
in  contrast  to  the  higher  response  in  adolescents  than  in  adults  in  the  TNS  pivotal  registration  trial.  
However,  the  subgroups  by  age  are  too  small  to  draw  robust  conclusions  as  to  the  age  dependent 
performance of AZLI.   
Overall, the most appropriate way to compare the clinical results of the recommended dosage of AZLI 
with the approved TNS is a head to head randomised comparative study in a larger group of patients 
for  the  duration  of  3  treatment  cycles.  Such  a  study  is  presently  ongoing.  Such  a  study  will  also 
9 Hodson ME, Gallagher CG, Govan JR. A randomised clinical trial of nebulised tobramycin or colistin in cystic fibrosis. Eur Respir J 
2002;20(3):658-64 
40/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
neutralise any effects such as tolerance to TNS (as in study CP-AI-005) or potential seasonal effects 
(as in study CP-AI-007 versus CP-AI-005).  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No special studies were provided.  In the present main clinical trials, pulmonary function response was 
comparable for AZLI-treated patients of all studied age groups. 
•  Supportive studies 
CP-AI-006:  A Phase 3, Open-label, Follow-on Study of Multiple Courses of Aztreonam Lysinate 
for Inhalation (AZLI) in Cystic Fibrosis Patients (AIR-CF3). 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  is  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  repeated  exposure  to  AZLI  in  cystic 
fibrosis (CF) patients. Secondary objectives include evaluation of the effects of repeated exposure to 
AZLI on disease-related endpoints and microbiology. 
Follow-on  study  CP-AI-006  eligible  patients  from  the  two  randomized  trials  (CP-AI-005  or  CP-AI-
007)  received  AZLI  with  the  PARI  eFlow  Nebuliser  at  the  same  regimen  to  which  they  had  been 
previously assigned and the same key efficacy variables were measured. As of the data cut off for this 
summary, 207 patients have been treated with AZLI in the open label follow-on trial. Baseline data 
suggest  heterogeneity  of  the  different  subgroups  (from  placebo  worse  than  from  AZLI  previous 
treatment) with regard to baseline disease severity. Pooled results are not useful. 
Furthermore,  in  this  open-label  trial,  there  were  no  protocol  restrictions  on  use  of  non-study  drug 
antibiotics.  During the study, patients may be treated as needed with any anti-PA antibiotics (oral, IV, 
or inhaled), with the exception of IV aztreonam therapy for any duration. Some patients were put on 
continuous alternating therapy with other inhaled antibiotics. The proportion of patients in the AZLI 
BID group who used non-study anti-PA antibiotics by IV/inhalational route was approx 71% and equal 
to that in the pooled AZLI TID group.  
Most frequently used other antibiotics were:  54 (66%) and 85 (68%) patients who used azithromycin 
in the total BID and TID groups, respectively; 56 (68%) and 77 (62%) patients who used tobramycin 
in the total BID and TID groups, respectively and finally 44 (54%) and 66 (53%) patients who used 
ciprofloxacin in the total BID and TID groups, respectively. 
There were 17 patients who enrolled in the CP-AI-005 study who received at least one dose of TSI, 
but discontinued during the TSI phase, and thus never received placebo or AZLI.  
Generally, better responses were reported in patients treated with AZLI TID for CFQ-R (respiratory 
domain scores) mean and categorical changes compared to that of the AZLI BID group for the first 
three  treatment  courses  in  the  open  phase.    Mean  relative  change  in  FEV1  %  predicted  showed  a 
similar  pattern  of  change.  Similarly,  reductions  in  PA  CFU  density  summarised  by  previous  study 
seemed to indicate better results in patients the AZLI TID regimen. 
During the first three treatment courses, the percentages of patients starting tobramycin treatment in 
any visit interval were similar for both regimens with no apparent relationship between on- and off-
treatment  cycles  (maximum  approx.  20%  in  the  AZLI  TID  group  who  received  AZLI  TID  in  the 
controlled trial versus approx. 31% in the AZLI BID group who received AZLI BID in the controlled 
trial).   
Other supportive data.  
The  applicant  designed  the  open  uncontrolled  study  CP-MCID-001  to  evaluate  the  CFQ-R  by 
determining 
in  children  and 
adolescents/adults  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  and  chronic  PA  infection  who  received  TOBI  for  their 
symptoms.  Patients  were  allowed  to  take  other  anti-PA  agents.  Correlation  of  change  in  clinical 
the  minimal  clinically 
important  difference 
(MCID)  score 
41/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms  as  measured  by  the  CFQ-R  with  change  in  pulmonary  function  and with  the  GRCQ  was 
also analysed. The magnitude of improvement in respiratory symptoms, as measured by responses to 
the GRCQ-Respiratory, was used to categorize patients as to whether they had experienced minimal, 
moderate,  large,  or  no  changes  in  respiratory  symptoms  during  TNS  treatment.  66  patients  were 
enrolled in the study: 23 children and 43 adolescents or adults. The mean age was 17.9 years (range 5–
48 years). No data were collected to measure treatment compliance in this study. 
The  TNS  phase  of  CP-AI-005  was  also  similarly  designed.  In  both  studies,  MCID  estimates  were 
based on data obtained before and after 28 days of treatment with TNS.  
In  study  CP-MCID-001  forty  three  (65%)  patients  completed  the  study:  17  children  and  26 
adolescents or  adults.  Patients  had  acute symptoms  of  CF;  at  baseline,  the  mean  FEV1 %  predicted 
was 65.1%. Mean changes from baseline in the CFQ-R were positive overall in adolescents/adults ≥ 
18  years  old  compared  with  negative  changes  in  patients  14  to  <  18  years  old.  In  the  respiratory 
domain, however, the combined children/adolescent group < 18 years old had greater mean positive 
changes from baseline in the CFQ-R at Visit 2 
On the combined data from children, adolescents, and adults, the MCID for the respiratory symptoms 
domain  was  11.6  and  the  MCID  for  the  physical  functioning  domain  was  10.3.  Scatter  plots  of 
correlations between changes in the CFQ-R, the GRCQ, and FEV1 showed that results of the variables 
were modestly correlated (R=0.4571).  
The correlation of the change in CFQ-R versus the change in FEV1 % at Visit 2 by baseline FEV1 % 
predicted  for  the  combined  children/adolescents/adults  was  calculated.  It  was  moderately  correlated 
for patients with < 75% baseline FEV1 % predicted (R = 0.5438), but not correlated for patients with ≥ 
75% baseline FEV1 % predicted (R = 0.0291).  
In  study  CP-AI-005  in  the  TNS  phase  in  patients  completing  a  28-day  course  of  TSI  there  was  on 
average no improvement in clinical symptoms as measured by the respiratory domain of the CFQ-R.  
In  the  controlled  phase  of  the  study  the  correlations  between  percent  change  in  FEV1  and  actual 
change  in  CFQ-R  respiratory  domain  scores  were  poor  in  the  AZLI  BID,  AAZI  TID  and  pooled 
placebo groups (correlation coefficient = 0.33, 0.24, and 0.33 for AI BID, AI TID, and pooled placebo, 
respectively). It suggested that change in CFQ-R respiratory domain score increased as percent change 
in FEV1 increased in all treatment groups. 
In both studies, MCID estimates were based on data obtained before and after 28 days of treatment 
with TSI. The MCID for the CFQ-R respiratory domain was approximately 11 in CP-MCID-001 and 5 
in  the  TSI  phase  of  CP-AI-005.  This  difference  was  attributed  to  the  different  baseline  respiratory 
status  of  the  patient  groups;  patients  in  CP-MCID-001  were  experiencing  symptoms  predictive  of 
exacerbation  at  the  time  of  enrolment,  whereas  those  in  CP-AI-005  were  stable  at  enrolment. 
Accordingly, the FDA and the sponsor agreed that the MCID estimate of 5 was the most appropriate 
standard for the patient population in CP-AI-007. 
In conclusion, the exploratory results of CP-MCID-001 should be interpreted with caution because of 
the uncontrolled design of the study and the very limited number of patients and distribution over the 
different age and disease severity categories. Furthermore, compliance was not evaluated in the study. 
In  the  larger  study  population    of  study  CP-AI-005  in  the  TNS  phase  of  there  was  on  average,  in  
patients completing a 28-day course of TSI no improvement in clinical symptoms as measured by the 
respiratory domain of the CFQ-R whereas in the controlled phase of the study the correlations between 
percent change in FEV1 and actual change in CFQ-R respiratory domain scores were poor in the AZLI 
BID,  AZLI  TID  and  pooled  placebo  groups  (correlation  coefficient  =  0.33,  0.24,  and  0.33  
respectively).  
The CFQ-R results suggest that they can be used only to obtain supportive measurement of the impact 
of  the  antibiotic  inhalational  therapy  on  respiratory  domain  scores  but  there  is  poor  to  modest 
correlation  between  the  changes  in  the  CFQ-R  with  changes  in  FEV1  percent  predicted.  The 
42/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
usefulness  CFQ-R  as  a  quantitative  tool  to  measure  in  a  standardised  fashion  meaningful  clinical 
change and to be used as discriminatory endpoint in controlled comparative clinical trials needs to be 
validated appropriately.  This is, however, beyond the scope of this MAA. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Overall, the observed improvements in pulmonary function and PA CFU density obtained with AZLI 
at day 28 in both placebo-controlled short-term studies CP-AI-005 and CP-AI-007 favour the efficacy 
of the recommended 28 days course of AZLI 75 mg TID above placebo, although the superiority of 
AZLI  75  mg  TID  above  AZLI  BID  was  not  convincingly  demonstrated  in  the  former  study.  The 
design of study CP-AI-005 and the chosen extensively pre-treated population might not have been the 
appropriate  choice  to  detect  convincing  differences  between  the  BID  and  TID  AZLI  regimens.  Of 
note,  the  power  of  the  Phase  II  trial  CP-AI-003  to  detect  relevant  differences  between  active 
treatments  and  placebo  was  compromised  (too  small  number  of  evaluable  patients  and  the  mild  to 
moderate CF disease severity as approx. 80% had FEV1 ≥ 60% of predicted). However, the rationale 
for  choosing  TID  75 mg  for  AZLI  to  obtain  a  better  antibacterial  coverage  with  AZLI  can  be 
supported on the basis of microbiological results. Pooling of results from both Phase III studies cannot 
be considered appropriate because of the difference in the design of the studies and patient treatment 
profile prior to enrolment and some differences in response due to regions explained by the applicant 
by being possible seasonal effects.  
Generally,  the  magnitude  of  observed  lung  function  and  PA  CFU  density  improvements  in  the  less 
extensively TNS pre-treated (no dornase and no oral azithromycin allowed) population of trial CP-AI-
007 were larger than in the extensively pre-treated population of trial CP-AI-005. The observed effects 
within AZLI patients in the latter study should be considered as the resultant of the initial TNS course, 
concomitant dornase and AZLI course. Furthermore, this pre- and co-medication might have narrowed 
the room of improvement in the patients of the latter study compared to the patients in study CP-AI-
007. 
The magnitude of improvement in lung function in patients in the more severe disease category (FEV1 
≤ 50% of predicted) was importantly smaller than that in patients in the less severe disease category 
(FEV1> 50% of predicted). In both studies, the observed responses diminished importantly within 2 
weeks after cessation of the AZLI treatment. This raises concerns on the durability of clinical response 
to AZLI.  
Similar  patterns  of  effects  were  also  noted  for  CFQ-R,  mean  (adjusted)  change  in  respiratory 
symptoms at Day 28. Of note, however, the rather high categorical placebo response with improved 
score in 37 % of patients versus 52-56% in the AZLI groups in both studies and decreasing to 30% 
and  45%  at  day  42  in  study  CP-AI-007.  In  both  studies  the  correlations  between  percent  change  in 
FEV1  and  actual  change  in  CFQ-R  respiratory  domain  scores  were  poor  in  the  AZLI  and  placebo 
groups (see comment below with regard to the clinical relevance of this new evaluation tool).  
As  expected  the  median  time  to  need  of  inhaled  or  IV  antibiotics  due  to  pre-defined  symptoms 
(measured from Day 0) was longer in the AZLI treated patients than in the placebo treated patients. 
Robust conclusions as to the age dependent performance of AZLI cannot be drawn as subgroups by 
age were very small, although in all groups there was important treatment difference between AZLI 
and  placebo  treated  patients.  The  numbers  of  children  6-12  years  of  age  were  too  small  to  allow 
provisional  meaningful  conclusions.  The  impact  of  PA  susceptibility  to  aztreonam  seems  to  be 
important in the management of these CF patients, although categorical analyses for the relationship 
between  MIC  and  treatment  response  provided  insufficient  evidence  to  establish  a  susceptibility 
breakpoint for AZLI.  
The present results in the rather small subgroups of patients are also difficult to compare with those of 
the pivotal efficacy study for TOBI which included larger groups of patients (as to gender, age, and 
disease severity) and for the duration of 3 treatment cycles. Because of the specific feature of study 
CP-AI-005  i.e.  extensive  prior  TNS  use  at  enrolment,  study  CP-AI-007  is  more  amenable  for 
comparison with the pivotal TNS registration trial. The latter comparison seemed to favour TNS with 
43/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respect to %-FEV1improvement and durability of this effect during the treatment off periods. As to the 
pattern  of  improvements  by  age  category  study  CP-AI-007  did  not  seem  to  indicate  differences 
between the small groups of adolescents and adults in contrast to the higher response in adolescents 
than in adults in the TNS pivotal registration trial. However, historical comparisons between different 
studies should be interpreted with caution as differences in the management of patients in the different 
periods  of  the  trials  and  differences  as  to  enrolled  populations  and  durations  (and  seasons  in  which 
they  were  performed)  of  trials  cannot  be  accounted  for  appropriately.  The  most  appropriate  way  to 
compare  the  clinical  results  would  be  in  a  head  to  head  randomised  fashion  for  the  duration  of  3 
treatment cycles comparing the definitively recommended dosage of AZLI with the approved TNS in 
a larger group of patients.  
Open uncontrolled follow-on study CP-AI-006 is not useful to draw appropriate conclusions due to the 
design,  heterogeneity  of  the  populations  and  used  interfering  co-medications.  Reported  results,  not 
totally unexpected, seem to be more favourable for the AZLI TID regimen. Appropriate conclusions 
with regard to the durability of response cannot be drawn. 
Finally, the CFQ-R results suggest that they can be used only to obtain supportive measurement of the 
impact of the antibiotic inhalational therapy on respiratory domain scores but there is poor to modest 
correlation  between  the  changes  in  the  CFQ-R  with  changes  in  FEV1  percent  predicted.  The 
usefulness  CFQ-R  as  a  quantitative  tool  to  measure  in  a  standardised  fashion  meaningful  clinical 
change and to be used as discriminatory endpoint in controlled comparative clinical trials needs to be 
validated  appropriately.    This  is,  however,  beyond  the  scope  of  this  Marketing  Authorisation 
Application. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In the present submission a total of 373 patients have received at least one dose of AZLI in the Phase 
2/3  studies,  278 of these  373  patients  (74.5%)  had  been treated  with  AZLI  for a  total  of  at  least  28 
days.  In  Study  CP-AI-006,  145/207 patients  (70%)  had  been  treated  with  AZLI  for  > 84 days  (the 
equivalent  of  three  28-day  courses)  and  55 patients  (27%)  had  been  treated  for  >168  days  (the 
equivalent of six 28-Day courses)  
Sputum  and  plasma  concentrations  of  aztreonam  have  been  monitored  in  several  clinical  studies  of 
AZLI.  
Like  for  other  inhalational  antibiotic  therapies  in  the  management  of  chronic  PA  infections  in  CF 
patients AZLI treatment causes minimal systemic exposure; plasma concentrations of aztreonam from 
administration  of  AZLI  by  inhalation  have  been  shown  to  be  approximately  80-  to  300-  fold  lower 
than peak plasma concentrations following intravenous administration of 0.5- and 2-gram therapeutic 
doses of aztreonam. Consequently, AZLI associated AEs were as expected of low frequency. 
•  Adverse events  
The majority of patients in both the placebo and AZLI treatment groups experienced at least one AE 
of any causality.  Drug-related AEs were reported by a higher proportion of patients treated with AZLI 
in both studies (table 14). 
44/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14.  Summary of AEs: Individual and Integrated Studies CP-AI-005 and -007  
Placebo 
Pooled 
(n = 160) 
n (%) 
136 (85.0) 
  42 (26.3) 
  15 (9.4) 
AZLI 
CP-AI-005 
75 mg BID      75 mg TID
(n = 69)              (n =66 )
n (%)                      n (%) 
62 (89.9)            61 (92.4)  63 (78.8) 
18 (26.1)            20 (30.3) 
28 (35.0) 
  6 (8.7)                7 (10.6)    5 (6.3) 
CP-AI-007 
75  mg  TID 
(n = 80) 
n (%) 
CP-AI-005 and -007 
75 
TID
mg 
(n = 146) 
n (%) 
124 (84.9) 
48 (32.9) 
12 (8.2) 
Patients Reporting AEs 
Any AE 
Drug-related AEa 
SAE 
 Drug related Cougha 
  13%                       14% 
a) Drug-related AEs are those with a causality of possible or probable. 
<10% 
19% 
16.4 
In  Study CP-AI-003,  there  was  a  possible  dose-related  trend  in  the  incidence  of  drug-related  cough 
(14%  AZLI  75  mg  vs.  19%  AZLI  225  mg  vs.  10% placebo).   This  is  explained  by  the  applicant  as 
being  partly  due  to  airway  reactivity.  Integrated  data  for  the  Phase II/III  placebo-controlled  studies 
showed  (based  on  measurements  of  FEV1  taken  pre-dose  and  30  minutes  following  study  drug 
administration) that a small percentage of patients had declines of ≥ 15% in FEV1. After the first dose 
of  study  drug  on  Day 0,  2%  of  pooled  AZLI  patients  and  3% of  placebo  patients  had  declines  of  ≥ 
15% in FEV1. Lower percentages of patients had declines of ≥ 15% in FEV1 at subsequent time points. 
Of note, all patients in the placebo controlled phase II trials were on bronchodilator co-medication. 
Overall,  cough  was  the  most  frequent  drug  related  AE  in  the  controlled  Phase  III  studies  and  was 
reported at higher rate by the AZLI treated patients (approx. 16 %  in the pooled AZLI TID ) than by 
the  placebo  treated  patients  (<10%).  The  cough  in  the  AZLI  treated  patients  was  associated  with 
airway  irritation  leading  to  cough,  onset  of  cough  occurred  commonly  immediately  after 
administration of the first dose of AZLI whereas in the placebo group it did not occur on the day of 
study drug administration. 
Other less common drug related AEs in the pooled AZLI TID group in the controlled Phase III studies 
were chest discomfort and wheezing which occurred at a rate of approx. 3% followed dyspnoea, throat 
irritation, pharyngolaryngeal pain and productive cough at a rate of approx. 2%.  Several of these AEs 
increased  slightly  in  the  open-label  follow-on  study  CP-AI-006.  Furthermore,  additional  dug  related 
AEs were reported such as hemoptysis (7%), respiratory tract congestion (3%), nasal congestion (2%), 
rash (1%), rhinorrhea (2%), fatigue (2%), and arthralgia (2%).  
In the open study, cough was the most common drug-related AE for all AZLI treatment courses, but 
the incidence rate generally decreased by treatment course. In treatment courses 1, 2, and 3, the total 
incidence  of  drug-related  cough  was  11.6%,  5.9%,  and  3.6%,  respectively.  The  incidence  rate  was 
similar in the BID and TID regimens for each treatment course. 
Microbiological effects.  
In both placebo controlled Phase III studies CP-AI-005 and -007) at Day 0 comparable percentages of 
patients in the treatment groups had positive culture results for PA (which was an inclusion criterion) 
with slightly broader ranges in study CP-AI-005 namely 97% in the placebo group vs. 89% in AZLI 
BID and 97% in the AZLI TID group; in study CP-AI-007  95% in the AZLI TID group and 94% in 
the placebo group. A minority of the patients had also positive cultures for other pathogens. 
In  study  CP-AI-005  at  Day  0  higher  percentages  (<15%)  of  patients  had  positive  cultures  for  S. 
maltophilia and  A. xylosoxidans than in study CP-AI-007 (< 2% in the AZLI group). In study CP-AI-
007 the percentages of patients with S. maltophilia and A. xylosoxidans isolated at Day 0 were lower 
in  the  AZLI  group  (1.4%  for  both  micro-organisms)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (4.9%  and  6% 
respectively). 
In both studies, AZLI groups at Day 0, higher percentages (42-50%) of patients had positive cultures 
for S. aureus than the placebo groups (32-37%). 
45/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since patients with B. cepacia were to be excluded there was only 1 patient with positive culture for B. 
cepacia at day O, namely 1 (1.4%) in the AZLI group in study CP-AI-007.   
At Day 28 of treatment there were slight decreases in the % of patients with positive cultures for PA in 
the AZLI groups and rise again to at least baseline values at Day 42. Such a decrease is not expected 
for  suppressive  therapy  and  the  presence  or  absence  of  PA  is  more  likely  to  be  attributable  to 
variations  in  sampling  technique,  or  to  the  patients’  ability  to  produce  sputum,  than  to  the 
disappearance of PA in individual patients. 
In the very small numbers of patients with positive cultures for S. maltophilia and A. xylosoxidans no 
clear effects of treatments through day 42 compared to baseline values were observed. In the relatively 
high proportions of patients with positive cultures for S. aureus no clear effects of treatments through 
day  42  compared  to  baseline  values  were  observed  across  the studies.  A  trend  to  an  increase in  the 
proportion of positive cultures in the AZLI TID in study CP-AI-005 at day 42 was not observed in the 
AZLI TID group in study CP-AI-007.  
In  studies  CP-AI-005  and  -007,  MIC50  and  MIC90  of  aztreonam  for  all  PA  isolates  generally 
remained unchanged for all treatment groups at Day 28 through Day 42 (and 56 in study 007). 
For PA isolates with the highest MIC from each patient, the percentages of patients who had increases 
in  their  highest  aztreonam  MICs  were  notably  higher  in  the  AZLI  BID  and  TID  groups  than  in  the 
placebo groups at all time points.  In study CP-AI-005 at Day 28 37-38% patients in the AZLI groups 
had an increase in their highest MICs, compared with 21% patients in the pooled placebo group. The 
increase  in  MICs  during  treatment  trended  to  revert  in  the  treatment  free  period.  The  percentage  of 
patients whose PA isolate with the highest MIC of aztreonam was above the parenteral breakpoint (> 8 
µg/mL)  increased  from  Day  0  to  Days  14  and  28  in  the  pooled  AZLI  group,  but  not  in  the  pooled 
placebo group whereas at Day 28 the proportions of patients with increases reached 43-44% patients 
in the AZLI groups compared with 27-33% patients at Day 0. The percentages tended to revert in the 
treatment  free  period  (clearest  being  within the  AZLI  TID  group)  and  percentages  returned to  near-
Day 0 values after Day 56.  
Apart from transient changes, there seemed to be no notable increases in the MIC50 or MIC90 of any 
of  the  other  antibiotics  tested  after  treatment  with  AZLI  (tobramycin,  gentamicin,  amikacin, 
piperacillin, cefepime, meropenem, ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin, and ticarcillin/clavulanate).  
In the open follow-up uncontrolled study CP-AI-006, the pattern of effects was similar to that in the 
original  controlled  studies.    There  was  no  consistent  trend  in  the  percentage  of  patients  with  the 
highest MIC over the time interval during the first three treatment courses. The MIC data collected at 
additional  patient  visits  beyond  the  third  treatment  course  suggested  that  the  susceptibility  of  PA  to 
aztreonam may decrease more readily over time with BID than TID dosing.  
There were no notable increases in the MIC50 or MIC90 of any of the other antibiotics tested against 
PA after treatment with AI. 
Furthermore,  nearly  half  of  all patients  in  the  study  had  at least one  positive  culture for Aspergillus 
spp.  during  study  participation,  whereas  three  patients  were  prescribed  concomitant  medications  to 
treat Aspergillus infections.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
SAEs. Overall reported SAEs for the pooled placebo and pooled AZLI groups occurred  generally at 
similar rates; higher rates in the AZLI treated patients included chest discomfort (< 1% AZLI vs. 0% 
placebo), pulmonary function test decreased (2% AZLI vs 1% placebo) and wheezing (1% AZLI vs. 
0% placebo).  Four patients experienced SAEs that were considered by the investigator to be related to 
AZLI  (in  study  CP-AI-006:  1  rash,  1  cough  and  productive  cough,  1  cough,  productive  cough  and 
dyspnea, 1 arthralgia and joint swelling).  
46/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deaths. No patients died during the placebo-controlled studies. One patient in Study CP-AI-006 died 
(mainly  due  to  massive  hemoptysis  and  cardiac  arrest)  after  completing  eight  courses  of  AZLI.  All 
events  of  hemoptysis,  and  all  other  AEs  experienced  by  the  patient  during  the  periods  of 
hospitalization, were considered by the investigator to be unlikely to be related to study drug). Multi-
drug resistant P. aeruginosa was cultured from the patient at baseline of the open-label study, but no 
treatment-related  resistance  to  aztreonam  was  observed.  In  Study CP-AI-006,  the  highest  aztreonam 
MIC values recorded were 128 µg/mL at the earliest visit and 256 µg/mL at the latest visit; transient 
increases to 512 µg/mL were observed at the end of treatment courses one and four. 
The applicant should discuss the place of AZLI in the treatment of CF patients in the sought indication 
with  documented  multi-drug  resistant  P.  aeruginosa.  This  should  be  monitored  in  the  ongoing 
comparative study versus TNS and the open follow-up study CP-AI-006. 
•  Laboratory findings 
In the Phase II/III studies with AZLI substantial variability in laboratory profiles were observed.  
There  were  no  drug  related  ARs  associated  with  changes  in  serum  chemistry  variables  either  in  the 
placebo-controlled or the open uncontrolled follow on study. 
Mean  counts  for  WBCs,  particularly  neutrophils,  were  generally  at  the  high  end  of  the  respective 
reference ranges for all treatment groups, consistent with a diagnosis of CF. Reductions in white blood 
cell  and  neutrophil  counts  were  observed  for  AZLI-treated  patients  in  integrated  analyses  of  the 
placebo-controlled studies but the differences between AZLI and placebo treated patients were small.  
The pattern of shifts from baseline to outside the normal range for hematology variables in the AZLI 
treated  patients  was  similar  to  that  in  the  placebo  treated  patients.  There  were  no  drug  related 
hematology results reported as AEs in the placebo-controlled studies. 
In the open uncontrolled study CP-AI-006, a similar pattern was observed.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Gender.   In the placebo-controlled studies, the overall incidence of specific AEs was generally higher 
in  females  compared  with  males,  however,  there  were  generally  no  notable  differences  between 
treatment groups (AZLI vs placebo) with some exceptions in increases for e.g : 
- the proportions of patients with chest discomfort (respiratory disorders SOC) were for female AZLI-
treated patients 8% vs. 2% in those on placebo;  incidence of cough in female patients (59% AZLI vs. 
46% placebo), nasal congestion  in females (18% AZLI vs. 14% placebo),  pharyngo-laryngeal pain in 
male  patients  (11%  AZLI  vs.  6%  placebo),  pyrexia  was  reported  with  a  higher  incidence  in  AZLI-
treated  patients  of  each  gender  subgroup  (9%  AZLI  vs.  4%  placebo  for  males;  14%  AZLI  vs.  8% 
placebo  for  females),  rhinorrhea  female  patients  (14%  AZLI  vs.  7%  placebo)  and  wheezing  (18% 
AZLI vs. 8% placebo).  
-  in  the  open-label  study CP-AI-006  proportions  of  drug-related  AEs  reported  were  35%  for  both 
genders  and  drug-related  AE  by  regimen  (31%  male  vs.  29%  female  for  BID;  37%  male  vs.  39% 
female for TID).  
Age.   A good comparison of the AE profiles by age groups is hampered because of the rather small 
numbers  of  patients  enrolled  into  the  Phase  II/III  clinical  trials  with  AZLI  and  especially  the  very 
limited number of children; the distribution of patients by age was: 77% adults, 18% adolescents (age 
13 to < 18 years), and 5% children (age 6 to 12 years).  
In the placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of many selected AEs was higher among patients ≥ 18 
years of age, consistent with the general observation of increased disease severity in adult CF patients. 
However,  some  events  were  observed  in  a  higher  overall  proportion  of  paediatric  patients  (age 
< 18 years)  treated  with  AZLI  e.g.  pyrexia  was  observed  in  18%  of  paediatric  patients  vs.  9%  of 
adults; the differences between treatment groups (AZLI vs. placebo) was only notable for patients in 
47/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the age category < 18 years as no events were reported in the corresponding placebo group. Generally 
the differences between treatment groups (AZLI vs. placebo) for adults and children (age < 18 years) 
were not notable. 
In  conclusion,  the  very  limited  number  of  children  hampers  the  appropriate  comparison  of  safety 
profile  of  AZLI  by  age.    More  experience  in  children  is  required  and  hopefully  this  will  become 
available from the ongoing comparative phase III study. 
Race.    Approximately  94%  of  patients treated  with AZLI  have  been  Caucasian  consistent  with data 
(95%) on genetics of CF disease. No conclusions can be drawn about the potential influence of race on 
the safety profile of AZLI in CF patients. 
Baseline  disease  severity.    As  expected,  among  patients  treated  with  AZLI,  the  incidence  of  most 
respiratory  symptoms  and  other  AEs  was  lower  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  baseline  FEV1  % 
predicted > 50%. Generally the differences between treatment groups (AZLI vs. placebo) by disease 
severity category were not notable with some exceptions most importantly e.g. for:  
Nasal  congestion  occurred  at  a  higher  incidence  among  AZLI-treated  patients  in  the  subgroup  of 
patients    with FEV1 % predicted ≤ 50% (24% AZLI vs. 8% placebo).  
For  chest  discomfort  (respiratory  disorders  SOC)  a  higher  incidence  was  observed  among  AZLI-
treated patients (7% AZLI vs. 2% placebo) for the subgroup of patients with FEV1 % predicted > 50%. 
 Pyrexia  occurred  with  a  higher  incidence  (16%  AZLI  vs.  9%  placebo  for  patients  with  FEV1  % 
predicted ≤ 50%; 9% AZLI vs. 4% placebo for patients with FEV1 % predicted > 50%) in the AZLI 
groups of both disease severity categories. 
Renal  and  Hepatic  Function.    Renal  and  hepatic  AEs  are  of  particular  interest  since  aztreonam  is 
cleared  mainly  by  renal  route  and  reports  of  elevations  of  AST,  ALT,  and  alkaline  phosphatase 
and hepatitis and jaundice with an incidence of less than 1% after IV administration of aztreonam have 
been reported. 
In Phase III clinical studies with AZLI patients were excluded from participation if they had abnormal 
renal  or  hepatic  function,  defined  as  creatinine    >  2  times  upper  limit  of  normal  range  (Studies 
CP-AI-005 and -007) and AST or ALT > 5 times upper limit of normal range (Studies CP-AI-005, -
007, and -006).  
As  expected,  given  the  low  systemic  concentration  of  AZLI  after  inhalation,  clinically  relevant 
changes in renal and hepatic laboratory results were not observed in Phase II/III trials. 
Extrinsic factors. The overwhelming majority of the patients in the Phase II/III  were enrolled in US 
centres. Only in study CP-AI-007 39 patients (18 AZLI and 21 placebo) were treated in Australia and 
New Zealand besides the 125 patients (62 AZLI and 63 placebo) in the US and Canada. 
A  greater  percentage  of  patients  in  the  AZLI  group  in  the  US  and  Canada  reported  at  least 
one drug-related AE (39%) compared with either the placebo group in the US and Canada (24%) or in 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  (22%  AZLI  and  19%  placebo).  The  applicant  considers  the  regional 
seasonal differences observed in Study CP-AI-007 as possible explanation for the observed difference 
as almost half the patients were enrolled within the last five months of the trial, corresponding to fall 
and early winter in the northern hemisphere and spring and summer in the southern hemisphere.  
• 
Immunological events 
There were no immunological events reported in the Phase II/III studies except for some non severe 
allergic  reactions  at  a  low  rate  despite  the  fact  that  a  small  number  (18-26%  of  the  patients  in  the 
different studies) had pre-existing allergy to beta-lactams.  
Three of the 373 patients who have received at least one dose of AZLI were discontinued from study 
due  to  possible allergic reactions :  1  case  due  to  urticaria,  rash  and  dizziness;    1  case  due  to  serum 
sickness symptoms (arthralgia, multiple joint swelling,  peripheral edema, musculoskeletal pain); and 
48/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  case  of    pulmonary  exacerbation,    SAE  rash  (diffuse  rash  on  face)  and  AEs  of  chest  discomfort, 
throat  tightness,  and  swelling  face  (symptoms  resolved  after  antihistaminic  and  corticosteroid 
treatment, had documented pre-existing beta-lactams allergy). 
For several of the reported AEs among patients treated with AZLI in the Phase III placebo-controlled 
studies,  there  were  differences  between  the  beta-lactam  allergy  subgroups  e.g.  for  cough,  dizziness, 
rash  and  throat  irritation.  However,  these  comparisons  should  be  interpreted  with  caution,  as  the 
numbers of patients are small. 
Relevant precautions and warnings are mentioned in the proposed SPC for patients with known beta-
lactam allergy. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal drug interaction studies were conducted during the AZLI clinical development programme. 
Exploratory analyses of the potential effects of relevant concomitant medications on AEs in the Phase 
II/III clinical trials were provided. Bronchodilator was used in all patients in the placebo- controlled 
Phase III studies whereas Dornase alfa was used by 72% of patients in the Phase II/III clinical trials.  
There were no clinically relevant adverse interactions between these agents and AZLI. This holds also 
for  pancreatic  enzymes  (used  by  89%  of  patients  in  the  Phase  II/III  clinical  trials),  and  oral  and/or 
inhaled corticosteroids (used by 61% of patients in the Phase II/III clinical trials).   
Concomitant azithromycin usage as in Study CP-AI-005 (72% AZLI vs. 66% placebo) was associated 
with a higher incidence of some respiratory symptoms (e.g., hemoptysis [16% vs.  8%, for the without 
azithromycin subgroup], nasal congestion [24% vs. 13% resp.], and respiratory tract congestion [21% 
vs  5%  resp.]).  In  general, the  same  pattern  was not observed  when  placebo  patients  were compared 
between the azithromycin subgroups. 
Concomitant tobramycin (IV or inhaled) usage as in study CP-AI-006 (65% of patients have used that 
at least once to date) was associated with a higher incidence of  e.g. chest discomfort (22%  vs. 11% 
without  tobramycin  for  the  respiratory  disorders  SOC),  cough  (90%    vs.  66%  without  tobramycin), 
hemoptysis (30% vs. 16% without tobramycin), nasal congestion (40% vs 13% without tobramycin), 
pyrexia  (43%  vs.  12%  without  tobramycin),  rash  (10%  vs.  1%  without  tobramycin)  and  wheezing 
(24%  vs. 10% without tobramycin). 
Relevant precautions and warnings in the light of above mentioned findings were not mentioned in the 
proposed SPC.  
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Four patients  in  the  placebo  controlled  studies  [two placebo  and  two  AZLI  treated  patients  (1  rash, 
urticaria,  dizziness  and  1  headache)]  discontinued  because  of  study  drug  intolerance.  In  the  open 
follow on study, 2 and 5 patients in the AZLI BID and AZLI TID  groups respectively discontinued 
because of study drug intolerance (mostly due to chest or lung function AE and single case of tinnitus, 
arthalgia or hemoptysis. 
Pregnancy. Female patients of childbearing potential who enrolled in studies of AZLI were required to 
practice  an  acceptable method  of  birth  control  and  could  not  be  lactating.  However,  a  positive 
pregnancy test was reported for one patient in Study CP-AI-006. This patient was discontinued from 
the study; the pregnancy is ongoing. 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available for Aztreonam Lysine 75 mg Powder for Nebuliser Solution. 
49/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall, the adverse events (AEs) profile of AZLI gives no reasons for concerns after short-term single 
course treatment with AZLI. Cough was the most frequent drug related AE in the controlled Phase III 
studies which was associated with airway irritation. Despite BD use, cough was reported at higher rate 
by  the  AZLI  treated  patients  (approx.  16  %  in  the  pooled  AZLI  TID  )  than  by  the  placebo  treated 
patients  (<10%).  Cough  seemed  to  be  less  reported  after  repeated  courses  with  AZLI  in  the  open 
follow-up uncontrolled study CP-AI-006. The seasonal explanation given by the applicant with regard 
to certain AEs is plausible; hopefully the ongoing comparative phase III study will shed more light on 
this issue.  
Furthermore, the very limited number of children hampers the appropriate comparison of safety profile 
of  AZLI  by  age.    More  experience  in  children  is  required  and  hopefully  this  will  become  available 
from the ongoing comparative phase III study.  
The  microbiological  effects  after  treatment  with  AZLI  suggested  an  increase  in  the  frequency  of 
positive culture for S. aureus which seemed to revert to baseline values in the treatment free period.  
In  studies  CP-AI-005  and  -007,  MIC50  and  MIC90  of  aztreonam  for  all  PA  isolates  generally 
remained  unchanged  for  all  treatment  groups  at  Day  28  through  Day  42.  For  PA  isolates  with  the 
highest  MIC  from  each  patient,  use  of  aztreonam  seemed  to  induce  increases  in  their  highest 
aztreonam  MICs  above  that  of  placebo  this  was  also  reflected  in  the  results  for  patients  with  the 
highest MIC of aztreonam was above the parenteral breakpoint (> 8 µg/mL).  The increases tended to 
revert in the treatment-free period. In the open follow-up uncontrolled study CP-AI-006, the pattern of 
effects was similar to that in the original controlled studies. Furthermore, nearly half of all patients in 
the  study  had  at  least  one  positive  culture  for  Aspergillus  spp.  during  study  participation,  although 
three  patients  were  prescribed  concomitant  medications  to  treat  Aspergillus  infections.    These 
observations need to be confirmed in the ongoing  phase III controlled study with AZLI  versus TNS 
(during 3 courses). In addition, it is of interest also to document the long-term  potential of AZLI to 
select  AZLI  resistant  PA  (with  phenotypic  and  genotypic  characterisation)  and  for  colonisation  and 
superinfection with S. pneumoniae, Candida and Aspergillus species.   
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application was of the opinion that it was not 
appropriate to consider risk minimisation activities at this time. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  not  considered  to  be  acceptable.  There  are  some  outstanding  issues 
regarding the quality of the active substance and the finished product, which need further clarification.  
50/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Both  in  rat  and  dog  studies,  no  significant  systemic  toxicities  were  encountered.    However,  partly 
reversible irritancy effects in the upper respiratory tract were shown.  Although effects are mild, and 
restricted to the upper airways, clinical relevance cannot be ruled out with certainty. 
In  addition,  in  high  dose,  the  incidence  of  C-cell  adenomas  in  the  thyroid  gland  was  increased  in 
female rat.  Considering the increasing life expectancy especially for young patients and considering 
the fact that only one carcinogenicity study has been performed with aztreonam, it is still necessary to 
address the relevance of C-cell adenoma in this specific situation. 
Efficacy 
The  present  short-term  efficacy  results  obtained  after  a  single  course  of  Cayston  75  mg  TID  are 
encouraging.  However,  the  durability  of  the  improvements  in  the  treatment-off  periods  is  not 
sufficiently  demonstrated.  Furthermore,  robust  conclusions  as  to  the  age  dependent  performance  of 
Cayston  cannot  be  drawn  as  subgroups  by  age  were  very  small,  although  in  all  groups  there  was 
important treatment difference between Cayston and placebo treated patients. The numbers of children 
6-12 years of age were too small to allow provisional meaningful conclusions. Appropriate evaluation 
of efficacy and durability of response across different age groups and disease severity in the targeted 
CF population with the chronic infectious (PA) condition requires randomised trials during at least 3 
courses of the inhalational antibiotic.  
Safety 
The adverse  event  profile observed  in  the  Cayston  trials  has  been  dominated  by  respiratory  adverse 
events  and  appears  consistent  with  the  expected  signs  and  symptoms  of  the  patients'  underlying  CF 
lung disease. The adverse reactions attributable to Cayston were primarily self-limiting, local effects 
associated with inhalation of the proposed medicinal product.  However, the long-term significance of 
these  findings  has  not  been  determined.  There  were  no  serious  allergic  reactions  and  few  SAEs 
associated with Cayston. 
The  present  safety  data  are  insufficient  to  resolve  the  raised  concerns  with  regards  to  the  risk  of 
acquired resistance. 
The current clinical safety data for Cayston from clinical studies submitted is considered as limited, in 
particular  for  children.  It  is  acknowledged  that  further  clinical  studies  are  ongoing  which,  when 
available will provide additional safety information and long-term safety data in particular, but this is 
currently lacking. 
•  User consultation 
The user testing report submitted is adequate and in accordance with current recommendations.  
Assessment of requirements for granting a Conditional Marketing Authorisation  
All four requirements in Article 4 of Commission Regulation (EC) 507/2006 need to be satisfied, i.e.: 
1. It fulfils an unmet medical need, 
2. It is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data, 
3. It has a positive Risk Benefit Analysis, and 
4. The benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product 
concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
51/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicant’s position 
It is argued by the applicant that AZLI meets the unmet need in CF patients infected with PA in three 
ways: 
1.  Aztreonam’s mechanism of action is different from that of aminoglycoside antibiotics and thus its 
use should not contribute to the emergence of aminoglycoside-resistant strains of PA. 
2.  Aztreonam  is  active  against  aminoglycoside-  and  multidrug-resistant  PA  and  may  have  activity 
against several other CF pathogens with intrinsic resistance to tobramycin, including B. cepacia. 
3.  Aztreonam  does  not  cause  ototoxicity  and  nephrotoxicity,  which  are  side  effects  associated  with 
aminoglycosides. 
Furthermore, the applicant asserts that in comparison to currently available therapies, AZLI provides 
the following significant benefits to CF patients with PA: 
•   A significant improvement in lung function in comparison to placebo. AZLI also demonstrates the 
ability to improve lung function in TOBI experienced patients. 
•   Increased quality of life as a result of the improvement in lung function. 
•   A statistically significant delay in the time to need for intravenous (IV) antibiotics. 
•   A rapid mode of administration (via the eFlow Nebuliser device) thus reducing patients’ treatment 
burden. 
•   A  less  disrupted  lifestyle  due  to  the  small,  portable  eFlow  Nebuliser  device,  which  potentially 
allows patient to live a more normal life. 
•   A safe and well tolerated product. 
•   No  decrease  in  the  susceptibility  of  PA  to  aztreonam  or  other  antibiotics,  including  betalactams, 
aminoglycosides, and quinolones, and no concerning trends in the treatment emergent isolation of 
other bacterial pathogens over three treatment courses of AZLI administered TID (28 days on, 28 
days off). 
Reference is also made to the fact that AZLI received designation as an orphan medicinal product and 
as  such  is  intended  for  either  “treatment,  the  prevention,  or  the  medical  diagnosis  of  a  seriously 
debilitating disease or life-threatening disease”. 
During  the  procedure  (responses  to  Day  120  &  180  List  of  Questions/  Outstanding  Issues),  the 
applicant stated that sufficient efficacy and safety data are provided to support a positive risk-benefit 
assessment  for  granting  a  Conditional  MA,  confirmed  with  external  results  from  a  case-matched 
control population. 
CHMP’s position 
It  is  known  that  there  are  very  limited  available  effective  options  for  inhalational  anti-pseudomonal 
antibiotic  therapy  in  CF  patients  with  chronic  PA  infection  and  in  principle  AZLI  might  offer  an 
additional  possibility  in  this  field,  with  a  different  resistance  profile  than  the  presently  established 
inhalational tobramycin therapy in the target population.  However, this has to be demonstrated. 
The  requirements  as  laid  in  Article  4  of  the  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  507/2006  on  the 
Conditional MA for medicinal products for human use, falling within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 have not been fulfilled with the present data.  In particular, a positive Risk Benefit analysis 
has  not  been  substantiated  adequately  based  on  the  results  of  the  presently  provided  single-course 
placebo  controlled  studies  (see  further).  Appropriate  multiple-course  comparative  data  versus  an 
optimal established control treatment are lacking. 
For the claimed indication, tobramycin has been licensed in EEA. The applicant claims that Cayston 
could  be  indicated  when  tobramycin  would  not  be  considered  useful,  e.g.  in  case  of  microbial 
resistance.  However this has not been shown, as yet. 
Applicant’s  retrospective  comparison  of  data  from  the  CP-AI-005  subset  of  the  open  uncontrolled 
follow-up study CP-AI-006 (which showed insufficient consistent results over time) versus matched 
52/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
control population from the CFF Registry has a very limited value for the assessment of efficacy of 
Cayston. Furthermore, the degree of matching e.g. with respect to history of treatment for the chronic 
lung PA infection and baseline antibiotic resistant sputum isolates is questionable.  
The  benefit  to  public  health  of  the  immediate  availability  on  the  market  of  the  medicinal  product 
concerned does not outweigh the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
The applicant will provide the comprehensive clinical data in Q3 2010.  
In  conclusion,  although  it  is  agreed  that  new  medicinal  products  are  warranted  for  the  treatment  of 
chronic  airway  infections  caused  by  PA  in  CF  patients,  it  has  not  been  shown  that  aztreonam 
inhalation would be effective when tobramycin TNS cannot be considered as useful.  
Overall, not all criteria needed for granting a Conditional Marketing Authorisation have been met.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
The  present  short-term  efficacy  results  obtained  after  a  single  course  of  Cayston  75  mg  TID  are 
encouraging.  However,  the  durability  of  the  improvements  in  the  treatment-off  periods  is  not 
sufficiently  demonstrated.  Furthermore,  robust  conclusions  as  to  the  age  dependent  performance  of 
Cayston  cannot  be  drawn  as  subgroups  by  age  were  very  small,  although  in  all  groups  there  was 
important treatment difference between AZLI and placebo treated patients. Appropriate evaluation of 
efficacy and durability of response across different age groups and disease severity in the targeted CF 
population with the chronic infectious (PA) condition requires appropriate controlled trials during at 
least 3 courses of the inhalational antibiotic. The applicant’s proposal during the procedure to limit the 
indication to “A 28-day course of Cayston is indicated for the treatment of chronic airway infections 
due  to  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  patients  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  aged  18  years  and  older  to 
improve  pulmonary  function  and  respiratory  symptoms.    The  primary  support  for  this  indication  is 
based  on  two  single  courses,  placebo-controlled  studies;  a  multiple  course,  comparative,  active 
controlled study is ongoing”- is not realistic (not practical to be achieved). The claim of the applicant 
that  present  data  support  the  “On  demand”  treatment  paradigm  cannot  be  agreed  based  on  present 
pivotal  studies.  The  applicant  acknowledged  that  the  indication  remains  a  chronic  indication  and  as 
alluded in the reworded posology repetitive courses may be given whenever indicated. 
Also, it does not seem realistic to exclude paediatric patients from the indication whereas the targeted 
disease starts manifesting itself already in children and is still an important serious disease entity in 
paediatric  CF  patients.    The  multiple  course  results  of  the  Cayston  head-  to-  head  comparison  with 
TOBI in the EU study (GS-US-205-0110) remain crucial for the benefit-risk assessment of Cayston in 
targeted chronic indication.    
Risks 
There are insufficient long-term safety data after repeated courses with the product (for patients across 
different age groups) from randomised studies in CF patients with targeted disease. The present safety 
data are insufficient to resolve the raised safety concerns especially with regard to the risk of acquired 
resistance, although it is inherent to the use of antibiotics, the concerns are not entirely alleviated. The 
risk  of  jeopardising  the  efficacy  of  beta-lactam  antibiotics  for  treatment  of  acute  infections  in  this 
population  remains  of  concern.  A  comparative  assessment  of  this  issue  after  multiple  treatment 
courses  is  of  critical  importance  for  the  benefit/  risk  assessment  of  Cayston  in  the  sought  chronic 
indication.  The results of the ongoing randomised EU Study GS-US-205-0110 are warranted before 
drawing definitive conclusions with regard to the long-term safety of AZLI. 
Finally, the non-clinical concern on the observed C-cell adenoma and its relevance to patients has not 
been  adequately  resolved.  An  important  argument  of  the  applicant  is  the  bad  prognosis  for  cystic 
fibrosis patients who are infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. However, in children in whom cystic 
53/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fibrosis is discovered early and treatment with antibiotics is started early, life expectancy is rising up 
to 45 years currently. In that situation, the relevance of these tumours is becoming important. Hence, it 
is still necessary to address the relevance of C-cell adenoma in this specific situation. 
Balance 
The overall risk-benefit ratio for Cayston is considered unfavourable. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Cayston in the treatment of “chronic airway infections due to 
Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  patients  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  aged  18  years  and  older  to  improve 
pulmonary  function  and  respiratory  symptoms”was  unfavourable  and  therefore  did  not  recommend 
the granting of the Conditional Marketing Authorisation of the following reasons:  
•  There  are  insufficient  long-term  efficacy  (and  durability  of  response)  data  after  repeated 
courses with the proposed product (for patients across different age groups) from randomised 
studies, including active controlled trials. 
•  There  are  insufficient  long-term  safety  (and  risk  of  acquired  resistance)  data  after  repeated 
courses with the proposed product (for patients across different age groups) from randomised 
studies, including active controlled trials. 
•  The  following  criteria  needed  for  granting  a  Conditional  Marketing  Authorisation  have  not 
been met: 
(cid:190) The Risk Benefit Analysis is unfavourable 
(cid:190) Fulfilment of unmet medical need has not been substantiated with relevant data; 
(cid:190) The  benefit  to  public  health  of  the  immediate  availability  on  the  market  of  the 
medicinal  product  concerned  does  not  outweigh  the  risk  inherent  in  the  fact  that 
additional data are still required. 
In addition, the non-clinical concern on the observed C-cell adenoma with its relevance to patients and 
the  two  outstanding  quality  concerns  (residual  solvent  in  the  active  substance  and  finished  product; 
and impurities in the active substance and finished product) need to be adequately addressed. 
2.7 
Re-examination of the CHMP opinion of 19 March 2009 
Following the CHMP Opinion concluding that the benefit risk of Cayston in the treatment of “chronic 
airway infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 18 years 
and older to improve pulmonary function and respiratory symptoms” was not considered favourable, 
the applicant submitted detailed grounds for the re-examination of the grounds for refusal.  
Detailed grounds for re-examination submitted by the applicant / CHMP position 
There  are  insufficient  long-term  efficacy  (and  durability  of  response)  data  after  repeated  courses 
with  the  proposed  product  (for  patients  across  different  age  groups)  from  randomised  studies, 
including active controlled trials. 
Gilead  is  seeking  conditional  approval  for  a  28-day  treatment  course  of  AZLI  for  adult  patients.  
Currently, approval for a long-term indication is not requested. 
The efficacy of AZLI has been evaluated in three Phase 3 studies in 344 unique patients with CF and 
chronic  PA  infection.  In  two  Phase 3  placebo-controlled  studies  (CP-AI-007,  CP-AI-005),  patients 
54/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received  75 mg  AZLI  twice  daily  (BID;  69 patients)  or  three  times  daily  (TID;  146 patients)  for 
28 days.    In  one  open-label  follow-on  study  (CP-AI-006),  274 patients  with  CF  received  up  to  nine 
28-day  treatment  courses  of  75 mg  AZLI  BID  or  TID.    Data  presented  for  the  open-label  study 
(CP-AI-006) are from the second interim analysis (12 month). 
The AZLI Phase 3 clinical studies employed a number of different efficacy measures.  Lung function 
was  assessed  with  FEV1  values,  respiratory  symptoms  were  assessed  with  the  CFQ-R  Respiratory 
Symptoms scale, and antimicrobial activity was assessed by measuring bacterial density (log10 change 
in  PA  colony  forming  units  [CFUs]).    The  CFQ-R  is  the  only  validated  patient-reported  outcome 
(PRO)  measure  for  assessing  health-related  quality  of  life  in  patients  with  CF.    It  has  been  used  in 
numerous  clinical  intervention  and  non-intervention  studies.  The  minimal  clinically  important 
difference  (MCID),  the  smallest  change  that  a  patient  recognizes  as  clinically  important,  was 
determined to be a 5-point change on the CFQ-R Respiratory Symptoms scale.  The MCID provides a 
systematic  way  to  interpret  changes  observed  for  this  efficacy  measure.    The  CFQ-R  Respiratory 
Symptoms scale, which measures clinical symptoms, and FEV1, which is a physiological measurement 
of lung  function  or reversibility  of  disease,  measure related,  but  non-identical, attributes  of  CF lung 
disease.    As  expected  in  a  heterogeneous  population  with  varying  disease  severities  and  treatment 
histories,  these  measures  showed  modest  correlations  when  examined  patient-by-patient  in  the 
placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies (Retsch-Bogart et al, Chest 2009 –in press).  
Efficacy of 28-Day AZLI Therapy 
Cumulative data from the two placebo-controlled studies (CP-AI-007 and CP-AI-005) and one open-
label  follow-on  study  (CP-AI-006)  provide  substantial  evidence  of  the  effectiveness  of  a  28-day 
treatment course of 75 mg AZLI TID in diminishing respiratory symptoms and improving pulmonary 
function  in  patients  with  CF.    The  magnitude  of  the  changes  in  FEV1  and  CFQ-R  Respiratory 
Symptoms  scores  were  consistent  among  AZLI-treated  patients  in  all  three  studies,  and  superior  to 
placebo in both pivotal studies (Figures 1&2). 
Figure 1. 
Mean Relative Change in FEV1 % Predicted Following 28-Day AZLI Treatment 
Courses 
55/76 
 
 
 
Figure 2. 
Mean Change in CFQ-R Respiratory Symptoms Scores Following 28-Day AZLI 
Treatment Courses  
Study CP-AI-005 included a 28-day open-label TNS lead-in period prior to the 28-day double-blind 
AZLI/placebo  treatment  period.    Mean  efficacy  responses  to  TNS  were  poor  during  this  lead-in 
period; mean CFQ-R Respiratory Symptoms scores decreased (worsened) by 1.47 points, mean FEV1 
increased  by  0.9%,  and  mean  sputum  PA  density  decreased  by  0.28  log10  PA  CFU/g  sputum.    In 
contrast,  AZLI  treatment  improved  lung  function  in  TNS-experienced  patients, including  those  who 
were  non-responsive  to  TNS  therapy.    The  magnitude  of  the  improvements  in  FEV1  and  CFQ-R 
Respiratory Symptoms scores were much larger after 28-days of AZLI treatment than after the 28-day 
TNS  run-in  treatment,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  AZLI  treatment  period  immediately  followed  the 
TNS treatment period.  These data clearly demonstrate that AZLI is effective among TNS-experienced 
patients, including patients with attenuated responses to TNS therapy. 
AZLI-treated  patients  demonstrated  improvements  in  clinical  outcome  measures,  regardless  of 
baseline disease severity, age, or the presence or absence of antibiotic-resistant PA at baseline.  In the 
placebo-controlled studies, the difference between patient responses to administration of study drug or 
placebo for 28-days, i.e., treatment effect, constituted the primary endpoint.  The treatment effect in 
study  CP-AI-007  for  percent  change  in  FEV1  among  patients  in  the  more  severe  disease  category 
(FEV1 ≤ 50% of predicted) was nearly identical to that for patients in the less severe disease category 
(FEV1 > 50%  of  predicted)  (Table  1).    Similar  analyses  from  study  CP-AI-005  also  demonstrated 
AZLI efficacy across subgroups defined by baseline disease severity. 
56/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Percent Change in FEV1 (L) at Day 28 from Day 0 by Baseline Disease Severity: CP- AI-007 
Baseline Disease Severity 
FEV1 % of predicted ≤ 50% 
N 
Mean (± SD) 
Adjusted mean 
Treatment 
Placebo 
(N = 84) 
75 mg AZLI 
(N = 80) 
30 
30 
-4.031 (11.933) 
6.343 (15.997) 
-4.002 
6.314 
Treatment difference: 75 mg AZLI – placebo   
10.316 
95% CI (p-value) 
FEV1 % of predicted > 50% 
N 
Mean (± SD) 
Adjusted mean 
3.066, 17.566 (0.0061) 
54 
50 
-0.632 (9.401) 
9.564 (14.779) 
-0.602 
9.531 
Treatment difference: 75 mg AZLI – placebo 
10.133 
95% CI (p-value) 
5.320, 14.945 (< 0.0001) 
Source:  CP-AI-007 CSR Adhoc Table 5 
The  treatment  effects  in  study  CP-AI-007  for  percent  change  in  FEV1  (L)  were  comparable  for 
children  (6 to 12 years),  adolescents  (13  to  17  years),  and  adults  (≥  18 years)  (Table  2).    Similar 
analyses from study CP-AI-005 also demonstrated AZLI efficacy across subgroups defined by age. 
57/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Percent Change in FEV1 (L) at Day 28 from Day 0 by Age Group: CP-AI-007 
Age Group 
Children (6-12 years) 
N 
Mean (± SD) 
Adjusted mean 
Treatment 
Placebo 
(N = 84) 
75 mg AZLI 
(N = 80) 
4 
11 
1.837 (20.950) 
7.100 (23.327) 
-8.245 
2.985 
Treatment difference: 75 mg AZLI – placebo   
11.230 
95% CI (p-value) 
Adolescents (13-17 years) 
N 
Mean (± SD) 
Adjusted mean 
-20.224, 42.684 (0.4486) 
12 
10 
-3.442 (11.234) 
9.331 (13.382) 
-5.422 
8.493 
Treatment difference: 75 mg AZLI – placebo 
13.915 
95% CI (p-value) 
Adults (≥ 18 years) 
N 
Mean (± SD) 
Adjusted mean 
3.388, 24.443 (0.0124) 
68 
59 
-1.781 (9.655) 
8.425 (13.920) 
-2.412 
8.136 
Treatment difference: 75 mg AZLI – placebo 
10.548 
95% CI (p-value) 
6.365, 14.730 (< 0.0001) 
Source:  CP-AI-007 CSR Table 14.2.18.1 
The  potential  for  developing  antibiotic  resistance  is  an  important  concern  associated  with  repeated 
administration of any antibiotic therapy.  Presumably the clinical efficacy of the antibiotic declines as 
antibiotic  resistance  develops.    Furthermore,  acquisition  of  a  particular  antibiotic  resistance 
mechanism  by  a  bacterial  population  may  also  result  in  cross-resistance  to  other  antibiotics,  both 
within  and  across  classes  of  antibiotics.    Therefore,  the  development  of  antibiotic  resistance  could 
limit the antibiotic treatment options available to patients with CF during a pulmonary exacerbation. 
In  the  Phase  3  placebo-controlled  and  open-label  follow-on  studies,  no  trends  toward  increased  PA 
resistance to aztreonam or other antibiotics commonly used to treat CF exacerbations were observed 
following single or repeated 28-day courses of AZLI therapy.  Two key factors are likely contributing 
to this lack of development of resistance: the mechanism of action of aztreonam and the delivery of 
high concentrations of aztreonam directly to sites of infection via inhalation administration. 
Additional  analyses  were  conducted  to  evaluate  whether  the  presence  of  antibiotic-resistant  PA  at 
study  baseline  could  preclude  a  patient  from  demonstrating  a  positive  clinical  response  to  AZLI 
therapy.    In  Study  CP-AI-007,  improvements  in  respiratory  symptoms  and  pulmonary  function,  and 
reductions in sputum PA density, were observed for AZLI-treated patients with or without PA isolates 
that  were  multi-drug  resistant  and  with  or  without  PA  isolates  that  were  beta-lactam  resistant  at 
baseline  (Table  3).    Thus,  AZLI  provided  clinical  benefit  to  patients  regardless  of  whether  or  not 
antibiotic-resistant PA was present at baseline. 
58/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Clinical Efficacy Outcomes at Day 28 for Patients with Antibiotic-Resistant PA at Baseline: CP-
AI-007 
in 
Change 
Respiratory 
Score at Day 28 
CFQ-R 
Symptoms 
Percent  Change 
FEV1 (L) at Day 28 
in 
in 
Change 
CFU 
Density 
Sputum at Day 28 
log10  PA
in 
Mean 
SD 
N 
Mean 
SD 
n 
Mean 
SD 
n 
Placebo (N = 84) 
Resistance 
Lactams 
to  All  5  Beta-
-7.94 
13.93 
7 
-3.72 
6.91 
7 
-0.40 
0.29 
4 
Resistance to < 5 Beta-Lactams 
Multidrug-resistant* PA 
No Multidrug-resistant PA 
-0.20 
-0.65 
-1.30 
18.94 
19.60 
17.44 
68 
43 
32 
-1.90  11.08
-3.05  10.81
-0.80  10.69
69 
43 
33 
-0.03 
-0.12 
0.02 
0.80 
-0.62 
0.94 
53
31
26
AZLI TID (N = 80) 
Resistance 
Lactams 
to  All  5  Beta-
3.97 
20.49 
14 
7.05 
13.83
14 
-0.49 
0.74 
10
Resistance to < 5 Beta-Lactams 
Multidrug-resistant PA 
No Multidrug-resistant PA 
9.04 
6.67 
10.53 
19.83 
16.79 
24.98 
55 
45 
24 
9.46 
16.23
9.51 
14.76
7.95 
17.65
55 
45 
24 
-2.01 
-1.35 
-2.34 
2.56 
2.38 
2.31 
40
32
18
* Multidrug resistance is defined as having resistance to at least one of the antibiotics in two of the three drug 
classes (aminoglycosides, beta-lactams, quinolones). 
Source: EMEA Table 67.3.1 
Durability of AZLI Response 
The AZLI treatment effect was durable over multiple courses and the efficacy responses were larger 
with  TID  than  with  BID  administration.    The  primary  objective  of  the  open-label  follow-on  study, 
CP-AI-006,  was  to  assess  safety;  a  secondary  objective  was  to  determine  the  effects  of  repeated 
courses  of  AZLI  therapy  on  disease-related  endpoints,  including  lung  function  and  respiratory 
symptoms.  Data from study CP-AI-006 were used to determine the durability of the AZLI treatment 
effect and the optimum dosing regimen (BID vs TID) in a patient population that reflected a realistic 
spectrum of CF disease severity and treatment histories.  In the second interim analysis (12 month) of 
Study  CP-AI-006,  FEV1  %  predicted  (Figure  3)  and  CFQ-Respiratory  Symptoms  scores  (Figure  4) 
showed  consistently  positive  results  across  multiple  courses  of  AZLI  TID.    Data  from  this  interim 
analysis also provided evidence of a dose response; treatment responses were consistently larger for 
the TID group than for the BID group. 
59/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. 
Mean Relative Change in FEV1 % Predicted from Baseline 
Figure 4. 
Mean Change in CFQ-R Respiratory Symptoms Scores from Baseline 
Comparison of AZLI and Historical TNS Efficacy 
The  AZLI  treatment  effect  appeared  comparable  or  better  in  magnitude  and  duration  than  the  TNS 
treatment  effect  observed  for  adults  in  the  TNS  pivotal  registration  trials  conducted  more  than  a 
decade ago.  In adults, the FEV1 effect following treatment with TNS was about 5% at 6 months and a 
loss in lung function was observed during the 18-month open-label follow-on study, when compared 
with  baseline  values.    Gilead  is  requesting  an  indication  for  CF  patients  aged  18 years  and  older; 
therefore, the adult cohort of the TNS registration trial is the appropriate comparator group.  In Study 
CP-AI-007, AZLI significantly improved lung function in patients with CF.  Seventy-seven percent of 
the patients in Study CP-AI-007 were adults (≥ 18 years) and the treatment effect for percent change 
in  FEV1  was  10.5%  for  the  adult  patient  subset.   This  treatment  effect  appears to  be  comparable  or 
larger than that observed for TNS-treated adults in the TNS registration trials. 
60/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  durability  of  the  FEV1  treatment  effect  following  administration  of  AZLI  also  appeared 
comparable or better than that observed in the pivotal TNS registration trials.  The majority of patients 
(80%)  enrolled  in  the  open-label  follow-on  study  (CP-AI-006)  were  adults.    Patients  in  this  study 
experienced  consistent  improvements  in  lung  function  over  multiple  courses  of  AZLI  therapy, 
includes data from all patients in the study at the second interim analysis [12 months]).  This contrasts 
with the decline in lung function observed among adults during repeated courses of TNS therapy in the 
TNS registration studies.  
It  is  difficult  to  draw  conclusions  from  comparisons  of  clinical  trial  data  from  different  studies, 
conducted  nearly  a  decade  apart  in  time;  nonetheless,  the  AZLI  treatment  effect  in  adults  for  FEV1 
appears  comparable  or  better  in  magnitude  and  duration  than  that  observed  for  TNS  in  the  pivotal 
registration trials. 
Conclusion  
Data from the Phase 3 AZLI studies demonstrated the clinical efficacy of a 28-day treatment course of 
75 mg AZLI TID in decreasing respiratory symptoms and improving pulmonary function in patients 
with  CF.    Clinical  improvements  were  observed  among  AZLI-treated  patients,  regardless  of  age, 
disease severity, and presence or absence of antibiotic-resistant PA at baseline.  The results of study 
CP-AI-006  further  provided  some  support  to  the  durability  of  response  to  AZLI  therapy,  as 
improvements  in  lung  function  and  respiratory  symptoms  following  AZLI  therapy  were  maintained 
above  baseline  values  for  18  months  in  this  predominantly  adult  population.    The  magnitude  of  the 
improvements in lung function and respiratory symptoms scores were consistent among AZLI-treated 
patients  in  all  three  studies,  and  superior  to  placebo-treated  patients  in  both  pivotal  studies.  
Furthermore, although it is difficult to draw conclusions from comparisons of clinical trial data from 
different studies, conducted nearly a decade apart in time, the AZLI treatment effect in adults for FEV1 
appears  comparable  or  better  in  magnitude  and  duration  than  that  observed  for  TNS  in  the  pivotal 
registration trials. 
CHMP position 
The CHMP can agree that adults represent a significant proportion of the total CF patient population 
and the vast majority of chronically PA-infected patients. 
In  the  studies  presented,  AZLI  had  an  undisputable  effect  on  lung  function.  Decline  in  FEV1 
represents airflow limitation due to chronic airway disease, airway remodelling and related changes in 
elastic recoil. In the studies CP-AI-005 AZLI, BID and TID and in the study CP-AI-007 AZLI TID (in 
which 77% were adults), significant increases were observed in FEV1, after a 28 day treatment course 
with AZLI. For both studies, the effects are significant compared to placebo. The effects in the CPAI- 
005  study,  although  somewhat  more  modest,  are  even  more  remarkable  since  the  effect  is  obtained 
immediately  after  a  28-day  treatment  with  inhaled  tobramycin.  In  comparison,  the  direct  effects  of 
inhaled tobramycin were, in terms of FEV1 improvement, very modest (0.9% increase). 
It  is  also  encouraging  to  note  that  the  treatment  effect  on  lung  function  and  respiratory  symptoms 
seems to persist over various treatment courses. However this has to be interpreted with the caveat that 
these data were obtained in uncontrolled circumstances and with possible resort to concomitant drugs 
against  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  (at  the  investigator’s  discretion).    Hence,  the  applicant  tends  to 
compensate  for  these  limitations  by  making  an  historical  comparison  with  data  derived  from  the 
tobramycin  registration  trials.  However,  as  rightly  pointed  by  the  applicant  one  should  beware  of 
drawing conclusion “from comparisons of clinical trial data from different studies, conducted nearly a 
decade  apart  in  time”.  Only  a  head-to-head  comparison  could  have  been  regarded  as  a  valid 
demonstration to this purpose.  These confirmatory data are awaited. 
There are insufficient long-term safety (and risk of acquired resistance) data after repeated 
courses with the proposed product (for patients across different age groups) from randomised 
studies, including active controlled trials. 
61/76 
 
 
Safety Profile 
Overall,  the  observed  adverse  event  (AE)  profile  in  the  two  US  Phase  3  placebo-controlled  studies, 
CP-AI-005 and CP-AI-007, was consistent with the signs and symptoms of CF lung disease and the 
incidence of most AEs was similar to that of placebo.   The few adverse reactions (ARs) attributable to 
AZLI  were  primarily  self-limiting,  local  effects  associated  with  inhalation  of  the  medication;  there 
were no serious allergic reactions and few serious adverse events (SAEs) associated with AZLI.  The 
majority of events reported as SAEs were associated with hospitalization for symptoms of pulmonary 
exacerbations.   
Analysis  of  the  safety  results  from  the  two  placebo-controlled  studies  identified  eight  AEs  as 
potentially  causally  related  to  AZLI:  chest  discomfort,  cough,  nasal  congestion,  pharyngolaryngeal 
pain, pyrexia, rash, rhinorrhoea, and wheezing. These eight AEs were therefore designated as ARs.  It 
is difficult to interpret a comparison of ARs in the 28-day placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies and the 
second  interim  analysis  (12 months)  of  the  open-label  study  because  the  studies  were  of  different 
lengths.   Therefore  the  ARs  were  adjusted  for  study  duration and  are  presented  as  rates (number  of 
events  per  patient-month).  For  the  eight  ARs,  the  rates  observed  during  Study  CP-AI-006  were  no 
higher  than  those  observed  for  patients  in  the  pooled  AZLI  group  of  the  integrated  US  Phase  3 
placebo-controlled  studies  (Table  4),  indicating  that  they  do  not  increase  with  longer  exposure  to 
AZLI. 
Table 4. Adverse Reactionsa (AEs) Adjusted for Study Duration: Comparison of Study CP-AI-006 with 
Integrated US Phase 3 Placebo-controlled Studies 
Preferred Term 
Chest discomfort 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Pyrexia 
Rash 
Rhinorrhoea 
Wheezing 
Number of Occurrences per Patient-monthb 
Integrated US Phase 3 Placebo-controlled 
Studies 
Placebo 
(N = 160) 
(275 Pt-months) 
0.040 
0.356 
0.073 
0.062 
0.036 
0.011 
0.040 
0.065 
Pooled AZLId 
(N = 215) 
(442 Pt-months) 
0.059 
0.387 
0.097 
0.068 
0.088 
0.009 
0.041 
0.072 
Study CP-AI-006 c 
Pooled AZLI 
(N = 274) 
(3001 Pt-months) 
0.038 
0.275 
0.046 
0.057 
0.053 
0.007 
0.038 
0.030 
Adverse reactions are events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of AZLI in the US Phase
Source:  US  NDA  120-Day  Safety  Update  (Module  5,  Section  5.3.5.3)  Tables  14.2.5.1  and  14.2.5.4.  –  available  on 
request. 
a 
3 placebo-controlled trials. 
b 
(days) for all patients and dividing by 28.   
c 
d          The  pooled  AZLI  group  includes  TID  patients  from  CP-AI-005  and  -007  as  well  as  AZLI BID  patients  from 
CP-AI-005.   
Rates are the number of occurrences per patient-month.  Patient-months are calculated by summing study duration
Data are from the second interim analysis of Study CP-AI-006. 
Six of the eight ARs were reported as SAEs at rates of ≤ 0.002 events per patient-month in Study CP-
AI-006. SAEs of cough were observed at a higher rate in CP-AI-006 than in the integrated US Phase 3 
placebo-controlled trials, and the rate of pyrexia SAEs in Study CP-AI-006 was comparable to that of 
AZLI-treated patients and lower than placebo patients in the integrated US Phase 3 placebo-controlled 
trials.   
Bronchospasm (defined in the AZLI studies as ≥ 15% decline in FEV1 following dosing) is a potential 
complication associated with any inhaled medication.  There were slight decreases in mean FEV1 30 
minutes  after  AZLI  treatment  in  the  Phase  3  studies,  but  few  patients  experienced  bronchospasm  at 
62/76 
 
 
any  clinic  visit.  Evaluation  of  airway  reactivity  by  treatment  interval  provided  no  evidence  that 
bronchospasm worsens with repeated exposure to AZLI.   
In the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, there were no statistically significant differences in SAEs 
observed between the pooled placebo and pooled AZLI groups. Overall, the rates of SAEs that were 
reported in Study CP-AI-006 but not in AZLI-treated patients in the integrated US Phase 3 placebo-
controlled  studies  were  low  (≤ 0.004  events  per  patient-month  in  CP-AI-006,  with  the  exception  of 
exercise  tolerance  decreased  [0.007 events  per  patient-month  in  both  CP-AI-006  and  placebo 
patients]). Given the low rates of these SAEs and the difference in length of study participation, these 
observations do not suggest any safety concerns. 
There  were  no  deaths  reported  in  the  CP-AI-007  or  CP-AI-005  placebo-controlled  studies.    Two 
deaths were reported in Study CP-AI-006.  One patient died following completion of eight courses of 
AZLI.    Another  patient  died  approximately  1.5  months  after  withdrawing  from  the study,  following 
completion of three courses of AZLI.  For both of these patients, the investigator did not believe the 
death to be related to AZLI treatment. 
In addition to the positive safety profile demonstrated in clinical trials to date with AZLI, the safety of 
the  parenteral  formulation  of  aztreonam  (Azactam®)  has  been  established  with  over  20 years  of 
extensive  clinical  use  in  the  EU  and  US  for  the  treatment  of  serious  gram-negative  infections.  
Azactam  has  been  generally  well  tolerated,  locally  and  systemically,  by  various  patient  groups, 
including  those  with  CF.    Systemic  exposure  to  aztreonam  following  inhalation  of  AZLI  is  much 
lower than that following IV or IM administration of Azactam.  Therefore, no new safety issues are 
expected to be seen with the inhaled formulation of aztreonam (AZLI). 
Risk of Acquired Resistance 
The risk of acquired resistance is inherent to the use of all antibiotics, particularly in the management 
of  CF  patients  with  chronic  PA  infection,  in  which  eradication  generally  cannot  be  achieved.    The 
development  of  antibiotic  resistance  is  assessed  by  measuring  changes  over  time  in  the  minimum 
concentrations  of  an  antibiotic  that  inhibit  50%  and  90%  (MIC50  and  MIC90,  respectively)  of  PA 
isolates.In the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies, changes in PA susceptibility to aztreonam were not 
observed following a single 28-day course of 75 mg AZLI (Table 5). 
Table 5.   MIC50  and MIC90  of  Aztreonam  (µg/mL)  for  the  PA  Isolate with  the  Highest MIC  from  Each 
Patient: Integrated US Phase 3 Placebo-controlled Studies 
Result (µg/mL) 
* 
MIC50
MIC90
* 
Pooled Placebo (N = 160) 
Day 0 
Day 14 
Day 28 
Day 42 
Pooled AZLI (N = 215) 
Day 0 
Day 14 
Day 28 
Day 42 
8 
4 
4 
4 
4 
8 
8 
8 
Source: SCM Table 3.6.1.4. 
n = number of patients with available data. 
* ± 2-fold change in MIC is considered unchanged. 
128 
128 
128 
64 
128 
128 
256 
128 
63/76 
n 
147 
146 
132 
113 
191 
195 
174 
173 
 
 
 
The overall susceptibility of PA to aztreonam also remained unchanged during treatment with repeated 
28-day courses of 75 mg AZLI TID in the open-label follow-on study (Table 6).  Further, no cross-
resistance  to  other  antibiotics,  including  aminoglycosides,  quinolones,  and  beta-lactams,  has  been 
observed following up to six 28-day courses of 75 mg AZLI TID. 
Table  6.  MIC50 and MIC90 of Aztreonam (µg/mL) for the PA Isolate with the Highest MIC from Each 
Patient: CP-AI-006 
AZLI TID (N = 189) 
Baseline 
End AZLI Course 1 
End AZLI Course 2 
End AZLI Course 3 
End AZLI Course 4 
End AZLI Course 5 
End AZLI Course 6 
Result (µg/mL) 
* 
MIC50
MIC90
* 
8 
8 
8 
16 
16 
16 
16 
256 
256 
512 
512 
512 
512 
512 
n 
172 
172 
147 
112 
82 
76 
65 
Source: 120-Day Safety Report Table 14.7.5. 
Data from the second interim analysis of CP-AI-006 (12 months). 
n = number of patients with available data. 
* ± 2-fold change in MIC is considered unchanged. 
Conclusion 
The  Phase  3  AZLI  studies,  which  demonstrate  that  AZLI  is  safe  and  does  not  induce  acquired 
resistance,  and  are  sufficient  to  support  the  proposed  28-day  indication.    Overall,  the  AE  profile 
observed during these studies was dominated by respiratory events, consistent with the expected signs 
and  symptoms  of  underlying  CF  disease.    The  incidences  of  these  AEs  were  comparable  between 
AZLI and placebo treatment groups, with the exception of pyrexia (fever), which occurred with higher 
incidence among AZLI-treated patients.  Further, in the 18-month open-label follow-on study, no new 
safety  signals  were  identified,  no  increased  rate  of  AEs  over  multiple  AZLI  treatment  courses  was 
detected, and no development of antibiotic resistance was observed.  These data, combined with over 
20 years of intravenous aztreonam use, support the long-term safety profile of AZLI therapy. 
CHMP position 
For  the  28  days  course  no  obvious  differences  were seen  between  placebo  and  active  groups.  More 
relevant however is the pooled analysis in study CP-AI-006. In that analysis there was no increase in 
the AE when compared to the single 28 day course. Also wheezing, which could indicate bronchial 
hyper-responsiveness  due  to  the  inhalation  was  not  increased  over  time.  These  data,  also  over  the 
longer time period in study 006, are reassuring. 
Concerning resistance, the applicant states that based on the data derived from the integrated US phase 
III placebo controlled studies, changes in PA susceptibility to aztreonam were not observed following 
a  single  28-day  course  of  75  mg  AZLI.  No  cross  resistance  to  other  antibiotics,  including 
aminoglycosides, quinolones, and beta-lactams, has been observed following up to six 28-day courses 
of aztreonam.  Although reassuring at first, it is noted that consulted experts (SAG-AI) remarked that 
standard microbiological sensitivity testing techniques may lack sensitivity to pick up mixed resistant 
and susceptible bacterial populations in the sputum, and establish the number of susceptible relative to 
resistant  isolates  from  individual  patients.    In  that  sense,  and  because  many  isolates  are  resistant  at 
start of therapy, it is difficult to interpret the resistance data for trial CP-AI-006.  Notwithstanding the 
64/76 
 
 
 
 
posed limitations, long-term resistance data may eventually answer the question, best if obtained in a 
head-to head comparison trial.   
The  following  criteria  needed  for  granting  a  Conditional  Marketing  Authorisation  have  not  been 
met: 
(cid:190) The Risk Benefit Analysis is unfavourable 
Gilead believes that 75 mg AZLI TID has a positive risk-benefit assessment for the requested 28-day 
therapeutic indication in adults. 
In  the  two  Phase  3  placebo-controlled  studies,  AE  rates  were  comparable  between  the  AZLI  and 
placebo treatment groups, with the exception of pyrexia (fever), which was statistically higher in the 
AZLI  group.  A  28-day  AZLI  treatment  course  was  not  associated  with  acquired  resistance  to 
aztreonam or the selection of PA isolates that were highly resistant to aztreonam.  Further, there was 
no  association  between a  28-day  course  of  AZLI  and  acquired  PA resistance  to  any  other  antibiotic 
tested. Statistically and clinically significant improvements in multiple disease-related endpoints were 
observed  for  AZLI-treated  patients  compared  with  placebo-treated  patients,  including  pulmonary 
function, time to need for other anti-pseudomonal antibiotics, respiratory symptoms, and sputum PA 
density.    These  clinical  responses  were  equal  to  or  greater  in  magnitude  than  previously  tested 
therapies for CF lung disease in an adult population. Further, the 18-month open-label follow-on study 
showed maintenance of treatment effects over multiple cycles of AZLI therapy, no new safety signals, 
no increased rate of AEs, and no development of antibiotic resistance.  Therefore, there is little risk 
that a new safety signal will appear in the ongoing 6-month comparative study.  In addition, over 20 
years  of  intravenous  aztreonam  use  has  led  to  a  large  safety  database  that  provides  additional 
reassurance that the risk of detecting a novel idiosyncratic event is minimal. 
The risk of selecting for drug-resistant pathogens is inherent to the use of all antibiotics.  This risk is 
perhaps greater in patients with CF because complete clearance of respiratory pathogens is generally 
not  achieved.    The  primary  risk  associated  with  acquired  resistance  is  the  loss  of  intravenous 
aztreonam  or  other  beta-lactam  antibiotics  for  the  treatment  of  respiratory  exacerbations.  Recurrent 
shortages of intravenous aztreonam in Europe have limited the use of aztreonam in patients with CF. 
Examination of practice patterns in the US suggests that intravenous aztreonam was administered to 
2.1% of patients with exacerbations of respiratory infections; thus, this therapeutic option is used only 
infrequently to manage acute pulmonary exacerbations. 
Placebo-controlled  studies  of  single  28-day  courses  of  AZLI  along  with  one  open-label  study  of 
multiple courses of AZLI have demonstrated a strong safety and efficacy profile without development 
of antibiotic resistance. 
For the reasons given above, the applicant believes that the overall risk-benefit evaluation of a 28-day 
course of AZLI therapy is favourable. 
(cid:190) Fulfilment of unmet medical need has not been substantiated with relevant data; 
Chronic  PA  airway  infection  is  incurable  and  currently  available  therapies  do  not  prevent  disease 
progression.  Although CF is a chronic disease, short courses of intravenous and oral antibiotics are 
commonly  used  to  treat  exacerbations  or  improve  symptoms  as  part  of  standard  of  care.    This  on-
demand treatment paradigm allows for assessment of individual patient responses to therapy; however, 
current  outpatient  treatment  options  are  limited  primarily  to  intravenous  aminoglycosides  and  beta-
lactams in 2-4  week treatments and oral ciprofloxacin in 2-3 week treatments.  Physicians currently 
prescribe  repeated  courses  of  these  approved  on-demand  therapies  according  to  patient  needs  as 
standard of care. Administration of the proposed 28-day course of AZLI to improve lung function and 
respiratory symptoms is consistent with the on-demand treatment paradigm. 
65/76 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Respiratory Society (ERS) states that “pulmonary disease is a major cause of mortality 
and  morbidity  in  CF;  hence,  innovative  treatments  need  to  be  aimed  primarily  at  the  airways”.  In 
addition, the ERS notes that “new antimicrobial agents are needed to combat infections, particularly 
for organisms which are increasingly resistant to the currently available drugs.”. 
AZLI  is  a  new  inhaled  formulation  of  the  parenteral  antibiotic  aztreonam  and  provides  several 
advantages over current inhaled antibiotics, namely aminoglycosides such as TNS.  The mechanism of 
action of aztreonam is different from that of aminoglycoside antibiotics and thus use of AZLI should 
not  contribute  to  the  emergence  of  aminoglycoside-resistant  strains  of  PA.    Further,  aztreonam  has 
demonstrated activity against aminoglycoside- and multi-drug resistant PA, as well as several other CF 
pathogens  with  intrinsic  resistance  to  aminoglycosides,  including  Burkholderia  spp.    Finally, 
aztreonam  does  not  cause  ototoxicity  or  nephrotoxicity,  which  are  side  effects  associated  with 
aminoglycosides. 
The  predominant  unmet  medical  need  is  for  new  antipseudomonal  antibiotic  therapies  in  the  adult 
population, as the vast majority of CF patients with severe lung disease and multi-drug resistant PA 
are  adults.    TNS  has  been  on  the  market  in  Europe  and  the  US  for  nearly  a  decade.    In  2006, 
approximately 62% of patients with CF in the US received TNS, and about 40% used it chronically. 
Independent research has shown similar or lower use in the EU (Gilead, data on file).  The majority of 
CF  patients  with  chronic  PA  infection  are  now  older  than  18  years;  in  the  Phase  3  AZLI  studies 
conducted in 2005-2008, 80% of patients were older than 18 years. In comparison, approximately 50% 
of the patients were older than 18 years in the TNS registration trials conducted in 1995-1996, and the 
large  improvements  in  lung  function  were  primarily  due  to  the  large  responses  in  children  and 
adolescents.    In  the  TNS  registration  trials,  the  FEV1  effect  in  adults  was  approximately  5%  at  6 
months  and  decreased  from  baseline  values  during  the  18-month  open-label  extension  study. 
Publication of the pooled data for all age groups from the controlled trial and selective publication of 
the 18-month open-label extension data have led to a mistaken impression that the effects of TNS in 
adults are large and persistent.  The observation that the FEV1 benefit in adults appeared to be smaller 
than  the  benefit  in  adolescents  or  children  raises  questions  about  the  current  efficacy  of  TNS  in  a 
disease  population  that  is  becoming  predominantly  adult.    After  a  decade  of  use,  TNS  has  an 
attenuated effect and the FEV1 benefit in adults has always been less than the benefit in adolescents.   
Several studies conducted during the past decade have evaluated the microbiologic response (change 
in log10 PA CFU density) to TNS therapy.  Reductions in sputum PA CFU density during TNS therapy 
have  diminished  over  the  past  decade,  likely  due  in  part  to  increased  PA  resistance  to  tobramycin 
resulting from widespread chronic use of TNS. The mean reduction in sputum PA density following 
28-day TNS therapy in Study CP-AI-005 was 0.28 log10 CFU. This treatment effect contrasts sharply 
with the 0.86 log10 CFU reduction observed by Hodson et al. in a European trial and the approximately 
2 log10  CFU  reductions  observed  following  one  28-day  TNS  course  in  the  registration  trials.  The 
current product label for TNS reports that “reductions in sputum bacterial density were smaller in each 
successive trial,” acknowledging the diminishing microbiologic efficacy of this drug. The addition of 
another anti-pseudomonal antibiotic for inhalation, such as AZLI, would fill an important void. 
In the decade of TNS use following completion of these studies, there have been no long-term follow-
up  studies  of  TNS  clinical  efficacy.  Tobramycin  resistance  in  PA  isolates  from  demographically 
similar CF patients has increased from 5.4% in the TNS trials in 1998 to 20.0% in 2008. Following the 
28-day  lead-in  TNS  period  in  study  CP-AI-005,  the  mean  FEV1  effect  was  less  than  1%.  Further 
analyses  showed  a  clear  breakpoint  for  clinical  response  to  TNS  at  the  parenteral  susceptibility 
breakpoint (4 µg/mL) (Table 7). 
66/76 
 
 
Table 7. Relationship between Clinical Efficacy of TNS Therapy and PA Resistance to Tobramycin: CP-
AI-005 
Least Susceptible PA 
Isolate at Baseline 
Tobramycin Susceptible  
(MIC ≤ 4 µg/mL) 
Tobramycin Resistant 
(MIC > 4 µg/mL) 
Clinical Efficacy Outcomes Following 28-day Therapy 
300 mg TNS  BID 
N*  Change in CFQ-R 
Respiratory Symptoms 
Score 
Mean (SD) 
Percent Change in 
FEV1 [L] 
Mean (SD) 
Change in Log10  
PA CFU Density in 
Sputum 
Mean (SD) 
113  0.15 (13.92) 
2.39 (11.47) 
-0.74 (1.61) 
73 
-2.89 (14.96) 
-1.12 (11.65) 
0.11 (1.40) 
N* = number of patients with available data for at least 1 of 3 efficacy endpoints. 
Patients  with  tobramycin-resistant  PA  (MIC  > 4 µg/mL)  demonstrated  no  mean  improvements  in 
respiratory symptoms, pulmonary function (FEV1), or sputum PA CFU density following the 28-day 
lead-in  course  of  TNS.    Furthermore,  TNS-treated  patients  with  tobramycin-susceptible  PA  isolates 
(MIC  ≤  4  µg/mL)  demonstrated  minimal  changes  in  respiratory  symptoms  and  pulmonary  function 
despite a measurable reduction in sputum PA CFU density. This is in contrast to AZLI-treated patients 
with  PA  isolates  resistant  to  a  variety  of  drug  classes,  who  showed  improvement  in  each  of  these 
clinical outcome measures. 
Conclusion 
In summary, there is an unmet medical need for additional and alternate treatment options for adults 
with  chronic  PA  infection,  severe  lung  disease,  and  multi-drug  resistant  PA.  AZLI  provides  several 
advantages  over  current  inhaled  antibiotics,  due  to  its  mechanism  of  action,  safety  profile,  and 
demonstrated clinical efficacy in patients with antibiotic-resistant PA. 
(cid:190) The  benefit  to  public  health  of  the  immediate  availability  on  the  market  of  the  medicinal 
product concerned does not outweigh the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are 
still required. 
Many adult patients with CF have severely compromised lung function subsequent to numerous years 
of  airway  infection  with  PA.  These  patients  often  have  little  or  no  response  to  most  available 
outpatient  therapies  and  their  current  treatment  options  include  long-term  inpatient  or  outpatient 
intravenous antibiotics. AZLI could be made immediately available to these patients, and would be a 
superior option to current therapies for several reasons: 1) the high airway concentration of aztreonam 
following inhalation of AZLI allows effective treatment of multi-drug resistant PA infections that are 
likely to be poorly responsive or non-responsive to intravenous therapies; 2) inhaled antibiotics, such 
as AZLI, have a lower systemic exposure than intravenous antibiotics, such as aztreonam, and AZLI 
has  a  proven  safety  profile  when  administered  for  a  28-day  course;  3)  indwelling  chronic  venous 
access catheters would not be needed in patients treated with an inhaled antibiotic; and  4) the two to 
three minute AZLI TID treatment time would be dramatically more convenient, when compared with 
treatment times for intravenous antibiotics.  
AZLI’s  greatest  utility  is  in  older  patients;  since  the  incidence  of  chronic  PA  airway  infection  in 
patients  with  CF  increases  with  age,  there  remains  a  particular  unmet  medical  need  for  viable 
treatment options in adults. The Rapporteur expressed concern about potential off-label use of AZLI in 
paediatric  patients;  however,  there  is  less  immediate  need  for  AZLI  in  this  population  as  there  are 
other approved effective therapies for younger patients.  With improved care with CF, including the 
potential  for  eradication  therapy  of  initial  PA  infection,  fewer  paediatric  patients  have  all  the 
following: chronic PA airway infection, severely compromised lung function, and failure to respond to 
currently available agents. 
Conditional  approval  would  not  impact  Gilead’s  ability  to  fully  enroll  and  complete  all  ongoing 
studies. 
67/76 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
The applicant believes there are sufficient data to support the benefit to public health of the immediate 
availability of AZLI as a treatment option for adult CF patients with chronic PA airway infection, and 
the additional data requested for full evaluation of AZLI will be available within the next 14 months. 
CHMP position 
The MAH considers that there is an unmet medical need for additional and alternate treatment options 
for adults (and children) with chronic PA infection, severe lung disease, and multi-drug resistant PA. 
The  CHMP  accepts  that  the  AZLI  therapy  might  fulfil  such  a  need  by  demonstration  of  short  term 
efficacy  without  significant  adverse  events  or  development  of  resistance,  being  sufficient  in  the 
framework of a conditional Marketing Authorisation. Additional data on sustainability of the observed 
short term benefit, resistance potential and adverse events remain outstanding.  
In addition, CHMP accepts that based on the limited data provided to date (primarily based on the two 
single  28  day  course  placebo-controlled trials), the  benefit-risk  profile  is  considered  positive,  for  an 
indication  stated  “as  suppressive  treatment  of  chronic  pulmonary  infections  due  to  Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in adult patients with cystic fibrosis”.   
Also,  CHMP  agrees  with  the  applicant  that  for  the  stated  patient  population,  the  data  support  the 
benefit  to  public  health  of  the  immediate  availability  of  AZLI  as  a  treatment  option  for  adult  CF 
patients with chronic PA pulmonary infection and outweigh the risk inherent in the fact that additional 
data are still required. 
Overall conclusion on grounds for re-examination  
The CHMP assessed all the detailed grounds for re-examination and argumentations presented by the 
applicant and considered the views of the Scientific Advisory Group.   The CHMP concluded that in 
relation to: 
Ground of refusal # 1, the data to support the sustainability of the observed short term efficacy over 
subsequent courses of treatment are limited. 
Ground of refusal # 2, the data to support the sustainability of the observed short term safety (and risk 
of acquired resistance) over subsequent courses of treatment are limited. 
Ground  of  refusal  #3,  based  on  the  limited  data  provided  to  date  (primarily  the  two  single  28  day 
course  placebo-controlled  trials),  (1)  the  benefit-risk  profile  is  considered  positive,  for  short  term 
suppressive  treatment  of  chronic  pulmonary  infections  due  to  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  adult 
patients with cystic fibrosis; In this patient population, (2) Cayston fulfils an unmet medical need and 
(3) the data support the benefit to public health of the immediate availability of Cayston as a treatment 
option, outweighing the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
2.8 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
68/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan: 
Safety Concern 
Important Identified Risks 
Bronchospasm  
Proposed 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities  
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of pulmonary function 
data in the clinical study GS-
US-205-0110 
Important Potential Risks 
Serious hypersensitivity 
reactions (including 
erythema multiforme, 
exfoliative dermatitis, 
urticaria, rash, petechiae, 
pruritis, purpura, and 
pyrexia [with diaphoresis]). 
See also anaphylaxis and 
toxic epidermal necrolysis 
below 
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of adverse event data 
in the following clinical studies 
GS-US-205-0110 and GS-US-
205-0117.  
69/76 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities  
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 4.4 
Bronchospasm 
Bronchospasm is a complication associated 
with nebulised therapies. An acute reduction 
of ≥ 15% in forced expiratory volume in 
1 second (FEV1) following administration 
of study therapy was observed in 3% of 
patients treated with Cayston and 4% of 
patients receiving placebo, despite pre-
treatment with a bronchodilator before 
dosing with study therapy. Patients should 
use a bronchodilator before each dose of 
Cayston. If a case of bronchospasm is 
suspected to be part of an allergic reaction 
appropriate measures should be taken (see 
“allergic reactions” paragraph above). 
Section 4.8  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Common: non-allergic bronchospasm 
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 4.4 
Allergic Reactions 
If an allergic reaction to Cayston does 
occur, stop administration of the medicinal 
product and initiate treatment as 
appropriate.  The occurrence of rash may be 
indicative of an allergic reaction to Cayston. 
Cross-reactivity may occur in patients with 
a history of allergy to beta-lactam 
antibiotics, such as penicillins, 
cephalosporins, and/or carbapenems.  
Animal and human data demonstrate low 
risk of cross-reactivity between aztreonam 
and beta-lactam antibiotics. Aztreonam, a 
monobactam, is only weakly immunogenic. 
Caution is advised when administering 
Cayston to patients if they have a history of 
beta-lactam allergy. 
The following rare and severe adverse drug 
reactions, although these have not been 
observed to date with Cayston, have been 
reported after parenteral use of other 
aztreonam containing products: toxic 
 
 
 
 
epidermal necrolysis, anaphylaxis, purpura, 
erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, 
urticaria, petechiae, pruritis, diaphoresis. 
Section 4.8  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common: rash 
The following rare and severe adverse drug 
reactions, although these have not been 
observed to date with Cayston, have been 
reported after parenteral use of other 
aztreonam containing products: toxic 
epidermal necrolysis, anaphylaxis, purpura, 
erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, 
urticaria, petechiae, pruritis, diaphoresis. 
Anaphylaxis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed SmPC text: 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Colonization leading to 
superinfection  
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of microbiology data, 
data on medications prescribed 
and monitoring of AEs 
(including pneumonia, 
meningitis, bacteremia, 
sinusitis, cellulitis, and otitis 
media) indicating fungal or 
bacterial superinfections and 
adverse event data in the 
following clinical studies: 
CP-AI-006, GS-US-205-0110 
and GS-US-205-0117 
Development of resistance 
(with clinical sequelae) to 
aztreonam and other 
antibiotics 
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of susceptibility data in 
the following clinical studies: 
70/76 
See above for Serious Hypersensitivity 
Reactions. 
Proposed SmPC text: 
See above for Serious Hypersensitivity 
Reactions. 
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 4.4 
The development of antibiotic-resistant 
P. aeruginosa and superinfection with other 
pathogens represent potential risks 
associated with antibiotic therapy. 
Development of resistance during inhaled 
aztreonam therapy could limit treatment 
options during acute exacerbations. In 
clinical studies of Cayston, no increases of 
clinical significance were observed in the 
prevalence of antibiotic-resistant 
P. aeruginosa or other bacterial respiratory 
pathogens among patients treated three 
times daily with Cayston. Among patients 
with multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa, 
improvements in respiratory symptoms and 
pulmonary function were observed 
following treatment with Cayston.  An 
increased prevalence of Aspergillus and 
Candida species were observed over time in 
patients treated with several Cayston 
treatment courses. The clinical significance 
of this finding is unknown. 
Section 5.1 
Microbiology 
In studies of up to six 28-day courses of 
Cayston therapy, no increases of clinical 
significance have been observed in the 
treatment-emergent isolation of other 
bacterial respiratory pathogens 
(Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, 
Alcaligenes xylosoxidans and 
Staphylococcus aureus).  
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 4.4 
The development of antibiotic-resistant 
CP-AI-006, GS-US-205-0110 
and GS-US-205-0117 
71/76 
P. aeruginosa and superinfection with other 
pathogens represent potential risks 
associated with antibiotic therapy.  
Development of resistance during inhaled 
aztreonam therapy could limit treatment 
options during acute exacerbations.  In 
clinical studies of Cayston, no increases of 
clinical significance were observed in the 
prevalence of antibiotic-resistant 
P. aeruginosa or other bacterial respiratory 
pathogens among patients treated three 
times daily with Cayston.  Among patients 
with multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa, 
improvements in respiratory symptoms and 
pulmonary function were observed 
following treatment with Cayston.  An 
increased prevalence of Aspergillus and 
Candida species were observed over time in 
patients treated with several Cayston 
treatment courses.  The clinical significance 
of this finding is unknown. 
Section 5.1 
Mechanisms of resistance 
Loss of susceptibility to aztreonam in CF 
patients with P. aeruginosa occurs either 
through selection of strains with mutations 
located on the chromosome or rarely 
through acquisition of plasmid/integrin 
mediated genes. 
Known mechanisms of resistance to 
aztreonam mediated by mutation of 
chromosomal genes include: 
hyperexpression of the class C beta-
lactamase AmpC and up-regulation of the 
efflux pump MexAB-OprM.  The known 
mechanism of resistance to aztreonam 
mediated by acquisition of genes involves 
acquisition of extended spectrum beta-
lactam enzymes (ESBLs) that hydrolyze the 
four-member, nitrogen-containing ring of 
aztreonam.  
ESBLs from Class A, B and D beta-
lactamases generally have little or no 
activity against aztreonam. Class A beta-
lactamases reported to hydrolyze aztreonam 
include the VEB type (primarily Southeast 
Asia), PER type (Turkey), and GES and 
IBC types (France, Greece, and S. Africa).  
There are rare reports of organisms with 
metallo-beta-lactamases (MBLs), Class B, 
that are resistant to aztreonam, VIM-5 (K. 
pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa - Turkey), 
VIM-6 (P. putida-Singapore) and VIM-7 
(P.aeruginosa - United States), however, it 
is possible that these organisms were 
expressing multiple resistance mechanisms 
and thus a MBL was not responsible for the 
observed resistance to aztreonam. There are 
rare reports of Class D beta-lactamases from 
clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa, OXA-11 
(Turkey) and OXA-45 (United States) that 
hydrolyze aztreonam. 
Microbiology 
A single sputum sample from a CF patient 
may contain multiple isolates of 
P. aeruginosa and each isolate may have a 
different level of in vitro susceptibility to 
aztreonam. The in vitro antimicrobial 
susceptibility test methods used for 
parenteral aztreonam therapy can be used to 
monitor the susceptibility of P. aeruginosa 
isolated from CF patients. 
In the Phase 3 placebo-controlled studies of 
Cayston, local aztreonam concentrations 
generally exceeded aztreonam MIC values 
for P. aeruginosa, regardless of the level of 
P. aeruginosa susceptibility. 
Treatment with a 28-day course of 75 mg 
3 times a day Cayston therapy resulted in 
clinically important improvements in 
respiratory symptoms, pulmonary function 
and sputum P. aeruginosa CFU density, 
regardless of whether the highest aztreonam 
MIC for P. aeruginosa was above or below 
the established susceptibility breakpoint for 
intravenous aztreonam administration 
(8 µg/ml).  Based on categorical analyses of 
the relationship between MIC and treatment 
response, a susceptibility breakpoint for 
Cayston cannot be established. Over 6 
courses of Cayston therapy, P. aeruginosa 
MIC 50 and 90 did not change (± 2 dilution 
change), however there is a theoretical risk 
that patients treated with Cayston may 
develop P. aeruginosa isolates resistant to 
aztreonam or other beta-lactam antibiotics. 
Off-label use in pediatric 
and adolescent patients 
(under 18 years of age) 
Observational data from the 
US CF Registry 
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 4.1 
Cayston is indicated for the suppressive 
therapy of chronic pulmonary infection due 
to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with 
cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 18 years and older. 
Section 4.2 
Paediatric population 
Cayston is not recommended for use in 
children and adolescents (i.e. patients 
< 18 years) as the safety and efficacy of the 
medicinal product has not been fully 
established in this patient population. 
Proposed SmPC text: 
Section 5.5 
A 104-week rat inhalation toxicology study 
to assess the carcinogenic potential of 
ascending doses (31, 56 and 120 
mg/kg/day) of Cayston demonstrated no 
drug-related increase in malignant tumours. 
The only evidence of Cayston-related 
carcinogenicity was a small increase in the 
incidence of C-cell adenomas in females at 
120 mg/kg/day. The clinical relevance of 
this effect is unknown. No such added effect 
Tumours, including C-cell 
adenomas 
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
The possibility of conducting 
further nonclinical mechanistic 
studies will be investigated. 
72/76 
was observed was observed at 56 mg/kg/day 
in which exposures exceeded 2.2 to 9 times 
the human exposure, based on AUC or Cmax 
respectively. 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of safety data in the 
following clinical studies and 
expanded access programs: 
CP-AI-006 
GS-US-205-0110 
GS-US-205-0117 
EA-US-205-0111 
EA-US-205-0122 (Planned 
study) 
Observational data from the 
US CF Registry 
Regular analysis of 
postmarketing safety data 
Review of safety data in the 
following clinical studies, 
expanded access programs and 
observational studies: 
CP-AI-006 
GS-US-205-0110 
GS-US-205-0117 
EA-US-205-0111 
EA-US-205-0122 (Planned 
study) 
Observational data from the 
US CF Registry 
In addition, a review of all 
pediatric data from controlled 
studies will be conducted. 
Nonclinical studies: 
Protocol TX-205-2011 
Protocol TX-205-2012 
Protocol TX-205-2013 
Nonclinical study: 
PC205-2001 
Important Missing Information 
Limited safety data in adults 
(including long term safety) 
Limited safety data in 
children 
Genotoxicity information 
(on impurities) 
Nonclinical safety 
pharmacology information 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.9  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation following re-
examination 
Quality 
Taking  into  consideration  the  initial  data  submitted  and  the  additional  clarification  presented  by  the 
applicant before the opinion it can be concluded that the Information on development,  manufacture, 
control  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  have  been  presented  and  justified  in 
accordance  with  relevant  CHMP  and  ICH  guidelines.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  finished  product.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion, 
there  some  unresolved  quality  issue,  which  will  not  have  an  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  the 
medicinal product. It is important to underline that the previous major outstanding issues regarding the 
quality of the active substance and finished product have been clarified and resolved. 
73/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, it can be concluded that the quality characteristics of the finished product are adequate and 
should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
As noted in the primary assessment, following high dose of aztreonam lysine, the incidence of C-cell 
adenomas in the thyroid gland was increased in female rat.  The non-clinical concern on the observed 
C-cell adenoma with its relevance, especially to children, still needs to be adequately addressed.   In 
view of the limitation of the conditional Marketing Authorization to adult population only, the CHMP 
agrees that this can be addressed as a “Follow-up Measure (FUM)”.  In addition, the RMP has been 
updated  to  include  tumour  growth,  especially  C-adenomas,  to  be  closely  monitored  as  part  of 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
Efficacy 
Cayston was evaluated over a period of 28-days of treatment (one course) in two randomised, double-
blind,  placebo-controlled,  multicentre  studies  (CP-AI-005  and  CP-AI-007).  Patients  partcipating  in 
these studies could subsequently receive multiple courses of Cayston in an open-label follow-on study 
(CP-AI-006).  Overall,  344  predominantly  adult  (77%)  patients  were  treated  in  these  studies. 
Pulmonary  function  and  respiratory  symptoms  significantly  improved  from  a  baseline  at  day  28  in 
patients treated with one course Cayston in both placebo-controlled trials.   
CP-AI-006 was an open-label follow-on study to CP-AI-005 and CP-AI-007 evaluating the safety of 
repeated exposure to Cayston and the effect on disease-related endpoints over multiple 28-day courses. 
Over  six  28-day  courses  of  therapy,  measures  of  pulmonary  function  (FEV1),  CFQ-R  respiratory 
symptoms  scores,  and  log10  P.  aeruginosa  CFUs  showed  a  trend  to  improvement  while  the  patients 
were on treatment compared with off treatment.  However, due to the uncontrolled nature of the study 
and concomitant medications no conclusion can be drawn on the sustainability of the observed short 
term benefit over subsequent courses of treatment.  Further data are awaited on the long-term efficacy 
in adult and paediatric patients alike. 
Safety 
The adverse reactions attributable to Cayston were primarily self-limiting, local effects associated with 
inhalation of the proposed medicinal product.  However, the long-term significance of these findings 
has  not  been  determined.    Further  data  are  awaited  on  the  long-term  safety  (and  resistance  data)  in 
adult and paediatric patients alike.   
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The user testing report submitted is adequate and in accordance with current recommendations.  
74/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
It is considered that adults represent a significant proportion of the total CF patient population and the 
vast majority of chronically PA-infected patients.  In the main controlled short treatment trials, which 
included a majority of adult patients, Cayston showed an undisputable improvement on lung function.  
It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  the  treatment  effect  seemed  to  persist  over  various  treatment  courses. 
However  this  has  to  be  interpreted  with  the  caveat  that  these  data  were  obtained  in  uncontrolled 
circumstances and with possible resort to concomitant drugs against Pseudomonas aeruginosa (at the 
investigator’s discretion).   
It  is  also  considered  that the  risk  of  adverse reactions  and  risk  of  the  development  of  resistance  are 
acceptable when the duration of treatment is limited to four weeks (one treatment course). 
Risks 
There are insufficient long-term efficacy and safety data after repeated courses with the product from 
randomised  studies  in  CF  patients  with  targeted  disease.  The  present  data  are  also  insufficient  to 
resolve the raised concerns with regard to the risk of acquired resistance.  The results of the ongoing 
randomised  EU  Study  GS-US-205-0110  are  warranted  before  drawing  definitive  conclusions  with 
regard to the long-term effects of Cayston.   
Also experience is limited in children, warranting further controlled data on short term and long term 
repeated use in the paediatric population. 
Finally, the non-clinical concern on the observed C-cell adenoma and its relevance to patients has not 
been adequately resolved and will need to be further addressed (FUM).  
Balance 
The overall risk-benefit ratio for Cayston is considered favourable for a revised indication limited to 
single treatment course in adult CF patients only.    
The data available in children are too limited at present, warranting further data from well controlled 
trials to support short term and long term repeated use in the paediatric population. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation following re-examination 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Cayston  in  the  suppressive  therapy  of  chronic  pulmonary 
infections  due  to  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  in  patients  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF)  aged  18  years  and 
older  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  conditional  marketing 
authorisation. 
A divergent opinion was expressed by a minority, stating the following objections: 
75/76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
(cid:190) It has not been adequately demonstrated whether the effect observed on respiratory function at 
28  days  would  translate  into  a  sustained  benefit  over  subsequent  courses  of  treatment  as 
required in this chronic disease. 
(cid:190) Whilst it is recognised that there is an unmet medical need for improved outcome in patients 
with  cystic  fibrosis,  there  is  currently  insufficient  information  to  establish  whether  Cayston 
fulfils an unmet medical need in the absence of long term controlled data. Furthermore there is 
insufficient  information  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  Cayston  in  the  paediatric  population, 
where there is also a clear need for treatments offering improved outcomes. 
76/76 
 
  
 
