SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR CAYSTON 
(AZTREONAM) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cayston. The RMP details important 
risks of Cayston, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Cayston’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cayston’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Cayston should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Cayston should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cayston’s 
RMP. 
1. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for 
Cayston is authorized for the suppressive therapy of chronic pulmonary infections due to 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged ≥ 6 years (see SmPC for the 
full indication). It contains aztreonam as the active substance and it is given by inhalation. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cayston’s benefits can be found in Cayston’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000
996/human_med_000686.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
2. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Cayston, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Cayston’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
2A. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or 
minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of the medicinal product. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of the medicinal product is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Development of resistance (with clinical sequelae) to aztreonam and other antibiotics 
Missing Information 
None 
2B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Cayston has been assigned the legal status of a medicine subject to medical prescription in the 
European Union (EU), whereby therapy should be initiated by a doctor experienced in the 
management of Cystic Fibrosis (as described in section 4.2 of the SmPC). 
Table 2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
None 
Important Potential Risks  
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Study reports for CP-AI-003, CP-AI-005, CP-AI-007, CP AI 006, GS US 205 
0117, EA-US-205-0111, and GS US 205 0110. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk factors for hypersensitivity reactions to AZLI may include: 
•  Hypersensitivity to IV aztreonam 
•  Hypersensitivity to β-lactam antibiotics 
• 
Increased age (because of corresponding increased cumulative antibiotic 
exposure {Wills 1998}) 
Animal and human data demonstrate a low risk of cross-reactivity between 
aztreonam and the β-lactams (penicillins, cephalosporins, and 
carbapenems) {Adkinson 1990}, {Jensen 1991}, although cross-reactivity may be 
expected based on the structural similarities between the classes. Aztreonam does 
not have a bicyclic core structure, unlike the β-lactams, and is considered to be only 
weakly immunogenic. 
 
Pre-existing hypersensitivity to β-lactams, as determined by retrospective clinical 
review of medical history case report forms, was reported for 20% of patients 
(75/375) in the Phase 3 placebo-controlled registration studies (CP-AI-005 and 
CP-AI-007), 24% of patients (65/274) in Study CP-AI-006, and 19% of patients 
(30/157) in Study GS-US-205-0117. 
Among patients treated with AZLI in the Phase 3 placebo-controlled, registration 
studies, occurrence of the following AEs were statistically significant (p < 0.05 ; 
Fisher’s exact test) between patients with pre-existing hypersensitivity to β-lactams 
vs. patients without pre-existing hypersensitivity, respectively: cough 
(80% vs. 53%), dizziness (8% vs. 1%), dyspnea (23% vs. 7%), herpes simplex 
(5% vs. 0%), nausea (13% vs. 2%), non-cardiac chest pain (10% vs. 2%), pyrexia 
(26% vs. 9%), rash (8% vs. 1%), and stomatitis (8% vs. 0%). 
Formal analyses of the safety profile of AZLI in patients with or without a history 
of allergy to β-lactam antibiotics were also conducted following the completion of 
open-label Study CP-AI-006. Few drug-related AEs that may reflect allergic 
reactions were reported. No drug-related AEs of bronchospasm or hypersensitivity 
were reported. The incidence of drug-related rash in Study CP-AI-006 was higher 
in the subgroup of patients with pre-existing allergies to β-lactams than in those 
without (3.1% vs. 0.5%). However, the incidences of arthralgia (1.5% vs. 3.8%) 
and wheezing (0% vs. 3.3%) were higher in the subgroup of patients without 
pre-existing allergies to β-lactams. The incidence of pyrexia was similar among 
patients with a history of allergy to β-lactams and those without (1.5% vs. 1.4%) in 
Study CP-AI-006. The incidences of AEs (identified in CP-AI-006) that occurred 
among AZLI-treated patients with pre-existing hypersensitivity to β-lactams vs. 
patients without pre-existing hypersensitivity in Study GS-US-205-0117 were: 
cough (73% vs. 39%), dizziness (7% vs. 7%), nausea (0% vs. 3%), pyrexia (13% 
vs. 7%), arthralgia (7% vs. 2%), and wheezing (7% vs. 7%). 
Data from these analyses must be interpreted with caution, as assignment to the 
allergy subgroups is based solely on the patients’ self-reported medical histories. In 
addition, the risk of allergy increases with increased exposure to β-lactams and 
increased exposure may reflect a greater severity of underlying CF disease. 
Furthermore, some symptoms of allergic reactions may overlap with those of 
pulmonary exacerbations. Thus, any differences in AE incidence rates between CF 
patients with or without a history of allergy to β-lactam antibiotics may reflect 
differences in the severity of underlying CF disease in the 2 groups rather than a 
difference in the safety profile of AZLI. 
There have been isolated case reports of immediate hypersensitivity to aztreonam 
in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to penicillin {de la Fuente Prieto 
1993}, {Hantson 1991}, {Soto Alvarez 1990}. As aztreonam shares a common R-
group side chain with ceftazidime, a proportion of patients with ceftazidime allergy 
would be expected to cross-react. In a retrospective study by Burrows et al., 4 out 
of 51 patients (8%) exposed to both aztreonam and ceftazidime were allergic to 
both antibiotics {Burrows 2007}. Cooper reported a single case report of fixed drug 
eruption due to aztreonam and ceftazidime cross-reactivity in a CF patient {Cooper 
2010}. 
In an open clinical trial, IV aztreonam was administered repeatedly to 15 CF 
patients (mean age 20 years [range 11 to 33 years]; 60% females) who had no 
previous exposure or hypersensitivity to aztreonam (demonstrated by negative skin-
prick test and lack of reaction to an IV test dose) {Jensen 1991}. However, the 
patients did have a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions (including 
anaphylactic shock, generalized urticaria, and drug-associated fever) to 1 or more 
β-lactam antibiotics. A total of 56 14-day courses of aztreonam were administered. 
No type 1 hypersensitivity reactions (IgE-mediated hypersensitivity) occurred 
although a low and transient increase in levels of hepatic enzymes was observed 
during therapy in 4 patients. Two of these 4 patients developed hypersensitivity 
reactions after repeated courses of aztreonam and discontinued aztreonam. The first 
patient developed drug-associated fever at the end of his third course and on 
rechallenge with aztreonam, this patient developed a fever (39 ºC) within 48 hours, 
along with a severe headache and transient rash. The second patient developed 
drug-associated fever at the end of her fourth course; however, she did not receive 
the drug again, as no further anti-pseudomonal treatment was required. 
A similar multicenter trial was conducted in 19 CF patients (mean age 22.5 years 
[range 5 to 39]; 53% females) with well documented allergies to penicillin and/or 
cephalosporin antibiotics {Moss 1991}. All patients had a history of at least 
1 systemic immediate hypersensitivity reaction to a β-lactam antibiotic. All patients 
had received several courses of β-lactam antibiotics before experiencing an allergic 
reaction. Six patients had prior exposure to aztreonam. Eighteen of the 19 patients 
had negative skin tests with aztreonam and were treated with IV aztreonam for 10 
to 21 days, along with tobramycin and other therapy as clinically indicated. 
Seventeen patients tolerated aztreonam well; the other patient, who had an allergy 
to ticarcillin, developed bronchospasm and was withdrawn from treatment. Two 
patients who were successfully treated with aztreonam during the study developed 
systemic allergic reactions to subsequent courses; 1 of the patients had an allergy to 
piperacillin, the other an allergy to ceftazidime. 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
SmPC Section 4.4, and 4.8 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Important Potential Risk 
Development of resistance (with clinical sequelae) to aztreonam and other 
antibiotics 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Study reports for CP-AI-003, CP-AI-005, CP-AI-007, CP AI 006, GS US 205 
0117, EA-US-205-0111, GS US 205 0110, GS-US-205-0160 and GX-US-205-
0128. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Antibiotic monotherapy 
Prolonged, multiple courses of antibiotic therapy 
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s) 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4, and 5.1 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
Missing Information 
None 
2C. 
2C.1 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Cayston. 
2C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no other studies required for Cayston. 
 
