EMA/69684/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005312 
Cegfila1 (pegfilgrastim) 
An overview of Cegfila and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Cegfila and what is it used for? 
Cegfila is a medicine used in cancer patients to help with neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type 
of white blood cell), which is a common side effect of cancer chemotherapy and can leave patients 
vulnerable to infections. 
It is given specifically to reduce the duration of neutropenia and prevent febrile neutropenia (when 
neutropenia is accompanied by fever due to an infection).  
Cegfila is not intended for use in patients with the blood cancer chronic myeloid leukaemia or with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (conditions in which large numbers of abnormal blood cells are produced, 
which can develop into leukaemia). 
Cegfila is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Cegfila is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Cegfila is Neulasta. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Cegfila contains the active substance pegfilgrastim. 
How is Cegfila used? 
Cegfila can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of cancer or blood disorders. It is available as a prefilled 
syringe containing a solution for injection under the skin. Cegfila is given as a single dose of 6 mg 
injected under the skin at least 24 hours after the end of each cycle of chemotherapy. Patients can 
inject themselves if they have been trained appropriately. 
For more information about using Cegfila, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
1 Previously known as Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Cegfila work? 
The active substance in Cegfila, pegfilgrastim, is a form of filgrastim, which is very similar to a human 
protein called granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Filgrastim works by encouraging the 
bone marrow to produce more white blood cells, increasing white blood cell counts and so treating 
neutropenia. 
Filgrastim has been available in other medicines in the EU for a number of years. In Cegfila, filgrastim 
has been ‘pegylated’ (attached to a chemical called polyethylene glycol). This slows down the removal 
of filgrastim from the body, allowing the medicine to be given less often. 
What benefits of Cegfila have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Cegfila with Neulasta have shown that the active substance in Cegfila is 
highly similar to that in Neulasta in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Cegfila produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving 
Neulasta. 
Because Cegfila is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of pegfilgrastim 
carried out with Neulasta do not all need to be repeated for Cegfila. 
What are the risks associated with Cegfila? 
The safety of Cegfila has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the side effects 
of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Neulasta. The 
most common side effect with Cegfila (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is pain in the 
bones. Pain in muscles is also common. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Cegfila, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Cegfila authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Cegfila has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Neulasta and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that 
Cegfila will behave in the same way as Neulasta in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised 
uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Neulasta, the benefits of Cegfila outweigh the 
identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cegfila? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cegfila have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Cegfila are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Cegfila are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Cegfila 
Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 
December 2019. The name of the medicine was changed to Cegfila on 6 February 2020. 
Cegfila0F (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/69684/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Cegfila can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/cegfila.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2020.  
Cegfila0F (pegfilgrastim)  
EMA/69684/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
