Summary of risk management plan for Celdoxome 
pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion 
for infusion (doxorubicin hydrochloride) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Celdoxome  pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml 
concentrate for dispersion for infusion. The RMP details important risks of Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 
2  mg/ml  concentrate  for  dispersion  for  infusion  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion's risks and uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion's summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and 
patients on how Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion should 
be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Celdoxome  pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml  concentrate  for  dispersion  for 
infusion  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Celdoxome 
pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion is authorised: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
As monotherapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, where there is an increased cardiac 
risk. 
For treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in women who have failed a first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy regimen. 
In combination with bortezomib for the treatment of progressive multiple myeloma in patients 
who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
for bone marrow transplant. 
For treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) in patients with low CD4 counts (< 200 
CD4 lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive mucocutaneous or visceral disease. Celdoxome 2 mg/ml 
concentrate for for infusion may be used as first-line systemic chemotherapy, or as second line 
chemotherapy  in  AIDS-KS  patients  with  disease  that  has  progressed  with,  or  in  patients 
intolerant to, prior combination systemic chemotherapy comprising at least two of the following 
agents: a vinca alkaloid, bleomycin and standard doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). 
See SmPC for the full indications. 
It contains doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated liposomal formulation as the active substance and 
it is given intravenously. 
 
 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Celdoxome  pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml  concentrate  for 
dispersion for infusion’s benefits can be found in Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate 
for dispersion for infusion’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/celdoxome 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Celdoxome  pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml  concentrate  for  dispersion  for  infusion, 
together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about 
Celdoxome  pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml  concentrate  for  dispersion  for  infusion's  risks,  are  outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion are 
risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Celdoxome 
pegylated  liposomal  2  mg/ml  concentrate  for  dispersion  for  infusion.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None. 
Important potential risks 
None. 
Missing information 
None. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Celdoxome pegylated liposomal 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion 
for infusion. 
 
