SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the 
initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  CellCept.  
This  scientific  discussion  has  been  updated  until  01  August  2003.  For  information  on  changes 
after 01 August 2003 please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
CellCept contains the active substance mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) produced by chemical synthesis 
from  mycophenolic  acid  (MPA).  MPA  is  a  chemical  substance  produced  by  fermentation  using  a 
strain  of  Penicillium  stoloniferum.  MPA,  the  active  metabolite,  is  a  selective,  non-competitive, 
reversible  inhibitor  of  inosine  monophosphate  dehydrogenase.  This  inhibition  leads  to  a  nucleotide 
deficiency  within  cells  that  slows  proliferative  rate.  In  lymphocytes,  a  slow  proliferation  rate  and 
changes  to  the  surface  glycosylation  of  adhesion  molecules  render  the  lymphocytes  less  effective  in 
recognising and eliminating allografts in animal models. 
Renal transplant 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  for  CellCept  in  renal  transplant  patients  was  granted  on  14  February 
1996..  At  this  time,  approximately  9,000  renal  transplants  were  performed  each  year  in  Europe.  
Acute rejection is the clinical manifestation of the immunologic disparity of donor and recipient and, 
if not prevented or treated, will result in graft loss. In 1996, therapies with cyclosporin, corticosteroids, 
and  azathioprine 
these 
immunosuppressive regimens 1-year allogeneic graft survival was 80-90%. Long term graft survival 
was  lower,  with  a  3-year  graft  survival  of  about  60-70%.  Reducing  the  incidence  of  acute  rejection 
may  potentially  translate  into  significant  improvement  in  the  long  term  outcome  of  renal 
transplantation. 
the  most  common  regimens.  With 
in  various  combinations  were 
Paediatric renal transplants  
In the late 1990’s approximately 650 paediatric renal transplants were performed annually in the EU 
and  approximately  550  in  the  USA.  Prior  to  the  approval  of  CellCept  for  paediatric  use  on  
16 July 2001, the immunosuppressive regimens used in children were similar to those for adults (with 
the  exception  of  CellCept),  i.e.,  azathioprine  (AZA)  in  addition  to  cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids, 
with  lymphocyte  antibody  induction  therapy  (ATG,  ALG  or  OKT3)  often  added  immediately  post-
transplant. Younger children often need higher doses of cyclosporin to maintain adequate blood levels. 
Following renal transplantation, one-year graft survival rates in Europe from the late 1980’s to the late 
1990’s  were  61-81%  in  children  (versus  75-83%  in  adults).  Acute  rejection  has  been  reported  to 
develop  in  40-70%  of  children  treated  with  cyclosporine-AZA  containing  regimens  with  most 
occurring in  the first  3  months post-transplant. As  with  adults,  acute rejection is the  most important 
predictor of subsequent chronic rejection in children. 
The causes of end-stage renal failure differ between adults and children, however the only aetiologies 
that  are  considered  to  impact  on  graft  survival  are  focal  glomerulosclerosis,  which  occurs  more 
frequently in children than adults (8% vs 3%) , congenital nephrotic syndrome, and, above all, acute 
allograft rejection. Several factors not directly related to the pathogenesis of renal failure also affect 
graft  loss.  Graft  survival  is  poorer  in  very young  children  (<  3  years)  and  as  this  often  results  from 
vascular  thrombosis,  it  may  be  due  to  mechanical  factors  resulting  from  placing  a  relatively  large 
organ in a small child. Children under 6 years of age have a higher incidence of non-specific cellular 
immune responsiveness which is likely to be the reason they are reported to experience more episodes 
of  acute 
intense 
rejection 
immunosuppression.  
than  adults  and  consequently  are  often 
treated  with  more 
Cardiac transplant 
Cardiac  transplant  is  the  treatment  of  choice  in  selected  patients  for  end-stage  cardiac  failure. 
Transplant  programmes  are  limited  by  the  availability  of  donor  organs.  The  American  Heart 
Association  has  developed  guidelines  identifying  patients  whose  survival  ought  to  be  increased  by 
cardiac transplant, e.g. NYHA class IV patients with less than 12-month life expectancy and class III 
patients  with  poor  exercise  tolerance.  Therefore,  patients  receiving  cardiac  transplant  are  a  very  ill 
group of patients. 
1/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The  posttransplant  requirement  for  immunosuppressive  therapy  develops  over  time.  Normally  
3 different phases can be recognised: the peri-operative phase, the acute phase, and the maintenance 
phase.  Doses  of  immunosuppressants  are  adjusted  according  to  these  phases  and  the  acute  rejection 
status of the patient. The long-term results of cardiac transplantation are negatively influenced by the 
development  of  coronary  artery  vasculopathy,  infection  and  malignancies.  Graft  failure  occurs  in 
approximately  3%  of  patients  in  the  first  year  but  the  total  mortality  rate  at  one  year  is  21%.  
The main cause of death in the first year is infection. 
Hepatic transplant 
In the late 1990’s, approximately 3,500 hepatic transplants were carried out in Europe annually with 
surgical  and  post-operative  immunosuppression  resulting  in  50–70%  acute  rejection  episodes  in  the 
first 6 months post-transplant but with a 1 year survival of 70–80%. At this time there was no standard 
immunosuppressant  regimen  but  usually  either  cyclosporin  or  tacrolimus  both  with  corticosteroids 
were used. Azathioprine (AZA) was often added to the cyclosporin plus steroid to reduce the dose of 
cyclosporin and reduce the rate of chronic (ductopenic) rejection. As tacrolimus is considered to be a 
better  immunosuppressant  than  cyclosporin,  AZA  is  not  often  added  to  tacrolimus  containing 
regimens. 
The  prevention  of  acute  rejection  is  the  main  focus  of  immunosuppressant  therapy.  However  acute 
rejection  per  se  rarely  leads  directly  to  death  or  graft  loss  but  chronic  rejection  of  the  grafted  liver 
results in an occlusive arteriopathy and loss of bile ducts that can have a fatal outcome. This chronic 
rejection is the main cause of irreversible hepatic graft failure. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical, and biological aspects 
Composition 
The first pharmaceutical forms of CellCept to be authorised were the capsules and tablets. A number 
of other pharmaceutical forms of CellCept have been authorised subsequently - see Steps taken after 
authorisation -  all containing the same active substance, mycophenolate mofetil ( MMF):- 
CellCept  250mg  capsules  -  the  formulation  of  the  finished  product  consists  of  MMF  granules  filled 
into hard gelatine capsules in PVC blisters with push-through foil lidding. Excipients and pack sizes 
are defined in the SPC, sections 6.1 and 6.5 respectively. 
CellCept 500mg tablets  - are presented in white opaque PVC blisters with push-through foil lidding. 
Excipients and pack sizes are defined in the SPC, sections 6.1 and 6.5 respectively. 
CellCept 1g/5ml powder for oral suspension – each bottle contains 35g MMF in 110g powder. 5ml of 
the reconstituted suspension contains 1g of MMF.  Excipients and pack sizes are defined in the SPC, 
sections 6.1 and 6.5 respectively. An oral dosing dispenser ( syringe) is included in the pack. 
CellCept 500mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion – each vial contains 500mg MMF as 
the  hydrochloride  salt.  The  powder  must  be  reconstituted  and  then  further  diluted  with  glucose 
intravenous infusion 5% before use. Excipients and pack sizes are defined in the SPC, sections 6.1 and 
6.5 respectively. 
Active substance 
The  active  substance  in  CellCept  is  mycophenolate  mofetil  (MMF)  produced  by  chemical 
modification (esterification) of the free acid, MPA, itself produced by fermentation using a strain of 
Penicillium stoloniferum. MPA is separated from the mycelium and further purified by crystallisation, 
and 
the  esterification  of  MPA  with  2-morpholinoethanol  produces  mycophenolate  mofetil.  
The product is purified by crystallisation and is then dried and sieved. Full details of the manufacture 
and  quality  control  of  the  drug  substance  were  submitted  in  the  first  centralised  application  for 
CellCept Capsules 250 mg, supplemented with additional information when relevant to the particular 
pharmaceutical form in question.  
The  proof  of  structure  of  MPA  and  MMF  has  been  established  using  the  usual  spectroscopic 
techniques. 
Since the first authorisation, a modification has been made to the strain of the producer organism in 
order to increase the yield of MPA. The new strain (PF18-21) is said to be a mutant of the existing 
2/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
strain  produced  by  classical  mutation  manipulations,  and  is  not  the  result  of    genetic  engineering.  
A new specification has been provided for the organism, this consists of a morphological description, 
a  potency  assessment  and  absence  of  contamination.  To  support  this  change,  four  batches  of  crude 
MPA were manufactured using the new strain. All batches met the specification and no new impurities 
were detected. Therefore, whilst this was a major change, it was considered to be without impact on 
the safety and efficacy of the product as previously established. Some acceptable minor modifications 
have also been made to the fermentation process and synthetic process for converting MPA into MMF  
The active substance specification includes tests for identity, loss on drying, clarity of solution, assay 
( titration 98-102%), chromatographic purity ( HPLC 98-102%), related substances ( HPLC), residue 
on ignition, heavy metals, residual solvents, etc. 
The original submission for the capsules provided the impurity profiles and general specification for 
the active substance used in stability, toxicology and clinical studies, and the specification applicable 
to  the  oral  pharmaceutical  forms  has  been  justified  with  reference  to  these  studies.  A  separate 
specification for the active substance to be used in the parenteral product has also been justified from a 
toxicological perspective and the batch data show good consistency. 
The  stability  of  the  active  substance  has  been  demonstrated  arising  from  a  large  amount  of 
accumulated data under ICH conditions. An acceptable retest period has been established. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients in each pharmaceutical form are listed in the relevant SPC section 6.1. Each one has 
been justified with reference to its established use and special function, and is of PhEur quality where 
applicable. Other in-house specifications where no PhEur monographs exist have been justified. 
There is no significant risk of transmission of TSE arising from the use of these excipients.   
Capsules and Tablets: 
Product Development and Finished Product 
These  oral  dosage  forms  are  of  standard  formulation  and  have  been  developed  to  release  the  active 
substance  rapidly  prior  to  absorption.  The  manufacturing  process  is  also  standard  and  generates  a 
suitably uniform product which routinely complies with the specification. 
The product specifications for these simple oral dosage forms include relevant tests for identity, assay, 
dissolution etc. which should indicate reliable performance in the clinic. 
Stability of the Products 
The physicochemical stability of the capsules and tablets has been established by ‘early’ studies, some 
of  them  initiated  before  the  ICH  stability  guideline  was  finalised,  and  supplemented  later  with  ICH 
studies.  The  results  indicate  no  significant  changes  in  the  products  during  the  shelf-life  and  storage 
conditions as recommended in the SPC. 
Powder for oral Suspension: 
Product Development and Finished Product 
In general the low aqueous solubility of MMF has facilitated the development of the oral suspension. 
The  main  development  objectives  have  been  to  provide  a  formulation  of  powder,  which,  when 
reconstituted  with  water  will  give  a  stable  suspension  resistant  to  adventitious  microbial 
contamination,  and  capable  of  producing  a  uniform  dose.  Attention  has  therefore  been  paid  to  the 
uniform  particle  size  of  the  active  substance,  the  use  of  a  standard  preservative  (methyl 
parahydroxybenzoate)  and  the  employment  of  buffering  agents  and  viscosity-modifying  agents 
( xanthan  gum).  Aspartame  has  been  added  as  a  sweetening  agent  to  improve  palatability.  
During  manufacture,  particular  attention  has  been  paid  to  homogeneity  of  the  powder  blend  during 
filling, in order to ensure uniformity of dose of the finished product. 
3/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
The  specification  includes  relevant  tests  for  identification,  assay,  loss  on  drying,  fill  weight  and 
appearance,  etc.  All  tests  are  carried  out  on  the  suspension  reconstituted  according  to  the  standard 
instructions  but  using  double  distilled  water.  The  lower  shelf  life  limits  for  methylparaben  content 
have been justified by preservative efficacy testing.  
Stability of the Product 
Stability data were provided for three batches manufactured at full-scale at the intended commercial 
site  and  stored  under  various  ICH  conditions  including  light  exposure.  All  results  remained  within 
specification  limits.  At  25°C/60%RH  there  was  no  significant  loss  of  potency  but  under  accelerated 
conditions  the  MMF  content  fell  by  up  to  6%  with  a  corresponding  increase  in  MPA  content.  
The sorbitol ester of MPA was also detected on storage but no other degradation product peaks above 
0.05%.  There  was  an  increase  in  moisture  content  both  at  25°C/60%RH  and  at  40°C/75%RH. 
Dissolution  profiles  did  not  change  under  normal  storage  conditions  but  there  is  a  slowing  of 
dissolution rate for samples stored at higher temperatures. Exposure to intense light had no apparent 
effect  and  the  Z-isomer  (produced  by  light  exposure  of  drug  substance)  did  not  appear  in  these 
samples. 
Based on these results, a shelf life of 24 months is proposed when the product is stored below 30°C. 
Stability  of  the  reconstituted  suspension  has  also  been  investigated  for  the  same  batches  as  above. 
Samples  were  stored  inverted  at  25°C/60%RH,  30°C/60%RH  and  5°C,  or  stored  horizontal  to  light 
exposure, for up to 12  weeks.  A shelf life of 60  days is  proposed when the product is stored  below 
30°C in the reconstituted form. 
In addition, simulated in-use studies have confirmed that a uniform dose of MMF can be repeatedly 
obtained from the reconstituted suspension using the oral doser provided in the pack, and uniformity 
of dosage is not a problem. 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion: 
Product Development and Finished Product 
The  low  aqueous  solubility  of  MMF  has  been  overcome  by  using  MMF  hydrochloride  in  this  case. 
Critical  processing  parameters  have  been  studied  and  are  adequately  controlled.  Standard  containers 
and  closures  for  a  lyophilised  product  are  used,  and  container/closure  integrity  has  been  validated.  
The manufacturing process includes compounding, sterile filtration/vial filing and lyophilization, and 
process  validation  studies  have  established  the  critical  control  parameters.  A  standard  steam 
sterilisation  cycle  is  used  for  equipment,  and  the  freeze  dryers  are  sterilised  according  to  well 
established and validated procedures. 
Validation of the aseptic manufacturing steps was carried out with media fill runs, and an acceptable 
failure  rate  has  been  defined.  Batch  analysis  data  for  the  production  scale  batches  shows  consistent 
compliance with the proposed release specifications. 
Separate release and shelf life specifications are defined. These are satisfactory for a sterile injectable 
product  and  include  tests  for  assay,  identity,  degradation  products,  particulate  matter,  endotoxins, 
sterility, etc. 
Stability of the Product 
Long term stability data at 30°C and at 25°C/60%RH were presented for 36 months storage of upright 
and  inverted  vials.  Accelerated  stability  data  extends  to  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH  or  12  months  at 
40°C/ambient RH. Stability was also been assessed at 5°C and under light stress by validated methods. 
The results support the shelf life of the product as defined in the SPC. 
In  addition,  compatibility  studies  have  been  carried  out  on  a  range  of  i.v.  fluids.  Only  glucose 
intravenous  infusion  5%  was  found  suitable  as  a  reconstitution  and  dilution  vehicle;  other  infusion 
solutions produced an immediate cloudiness and visible particulates. Compatibility was demonstrated 
with both glass and PVC containers and with the administration sets used.  
Vials  were  reconstituted  as  recommended  with  14  ml  of  glucose  intravenous  infusion  5%  to  give  a 
solution  with  a  concentration  of  35  mg  MMF  per  ml.  The  vials  were  stored  upright  or  inverted  at 
approximately  23°C  for  up  to  24  hours  in  normal  room  light.  Vials  were  also  stored  inverted  at 
4/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
40°C/75%RH  and  in  a  -15°C  to  25°C  freeze-thaw  12  hour  cycle.  Reconstituted  solutions  further 
diluted in i.v. bags to a concentration of 6 mg MMF per ml were stored at approximately 23°C or at 
30°C for up to 24 hours in normal room light. The recommended maximum storage period for infusion 
solutions to maintain chemical and physical quality is 12 hours after preparation. 
However, because the product contains no antimicrobial preservative, it is recommended in the SPC 
that the reconstituted product and any further dilutions should be used immediately, or within 3 hours. 
Relative Bioavailability of the pharmaceutical forms 
Compared  to  CellCept  capsules,  the  tablets  provide  a  concentration-time  profile  characterised  by  a 
bioequivalent AUC and a slightly reduced Cmax.  
A  comparative  study  between  the  intended  commercial  formulation  of  suspension  and  the  existing 
capsule  product  showed  that  the  two  formulations  were  bioequivalent  (within  90%  confidence 
intervals for the ratios). 
In  healthy  volunteers,  the  MPA  AUC  after  a  1.5  g  single  intravenous  and  oral  dose  were 
bioequivalent.  In  renal  transplant  patients,  the  mean  MPA  AUC  was  similar  following  oral  or 
intravenous administration and it was unaffected by rate of intravenous infusion of MMF.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The active substance has been manufactured, characterised and controlled in an acceptable way. 
The  individual  pharmaceutical  forms  have  all  been  developed  in  a  rational  way  and  are  also 
manufactured and controlled by validated methods relevant to their final use in patients. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics/Pharmacokinetics 
Mycophenolate  mofetil,  as  a  prodrug,  is  converted  rapidly  to  MPA  after  oral  administration  in  all 
mammalian species examined. MPA, the active metabolite, is a selective, non-competitive, reversible 
inhibitor  of  inosine  monophosphate  dehydrogenase  (IMPDH).  This  inhibition  leads  to  a  nucleotide 
deficiency  within  cells  that  slows  proliferative  rate,in  particular  in  lymphocytes  which  have  a  more 
susceptible  Type  II  IMPDH;  the  slow  proliferation  rate  and  changes  to  the  surface  glycosylation  of 
adhesion  molecules  render  the  lymphocytes  much  less  effective  in  recognising  and  eliminating 
allografts in animal models. 
The  action  of  MPA  is  not  totally  specific  to  desired  targets  and  above  a  certain  level  of  systemic 
exposure,  all  species  used  in  safety  testing  show  changes  in  haematopoiesis  and  lymphoid  tissue 
atrophy.  It  is  to  be  expected  that,  in  patients,  the  plasma  concentration  associated  with  the 
recommended dose regimen will also produce adverse effects in cells other than lymphocytes. 
One  objection  related  to  the  omission  of  a  solid  dose  formulation  in  preclinical  kinetic  study  was 
raised during the procedure. The company justified this point stating that the suspension formulation 
used was considered the best absorbed oral formulation to use. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicology  programme  included  acute,  subchronic,  and  chronic  oral  studies  as  well  as 
reproductive,  mutagenicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies.  As  the  clinical  use  will  be  mainly  oral,  the 
primary  route  of  exposure  in  the  toxicology  studies  was  oral  (gavage).  Additional  studies  were 
conducted by the intravenous and subcutaneous routes to further characterise the toxicological profile.  
The principal target organs in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys were the haematopoietic, gastrointestinal 
and  lymphoid  systems.  No  unusual  histopathology  or  other  toxicity  was  observed  in  the 
carcinogenicity studies. No mutagenic potential was found for MMF or MPA in the studies performed. 
There was no effect on male fertility in rats for the doses used. In the female fertility and reproduction 
study in rats the highest doses used caused malformations. MMF is teratogenic in rats and rabbits. 
5/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
An extensive toxicology programme was conducted in support of the clinical use of MMF using the 
oral  and  intravenous  routes.  Acute,  subchronic,  special  toxicity  studies  and  in  vitro  compatibility 
studies were conducted in support of the intravenous formulation development, previously submitted 
and  reviewed  during  the  approval  of  the  oral  product.  These  data  also  enabled  conduct  of  the 
intravenous  clinical  development  programme,  various  parts  of  which  were  submitted  and  reviewed 
with the oral application.  
The  toxicity  profile  of  MMF  obtained  following  intravenous  administration  is  comparable  with  that 
following  oral  administration.  Thus,  the  completed  toxicology  data  with  the  intravenous  route, 
together  with  the  comprehensive  package  generated  to  support  oral  administration,  are  adequate  to 
support  approval  of  this  dosage  form.  The  existing  toxicology  data  are  sufficient  to  support 
intravenous dosing in humans at 1 g bid for up to 14 days. 
No additional toxicology studies have been conducted since the initial review of CellCept capsule and 
tablet  formulations,  as  the  assessment  of  the  studies  reviewed  at  that  time  is  considered  of  equal 
relevance to the intravenous administration 
During  the  assessment  procedure,  concerns  were  raised  about  the  safety  margin.  Based  on  plasma 
levels  of  MPA  achieved  in  toxicology  studies  and  the  extent  of  binding  to  plasma  proteins,  
the monkey data show a small but demonstrable margin of safety for MPA/MMF. Monkeys were most 
likely exposed to several fold more MPA than expected exposure in man. However, at the maximum 
recommended doses for humans the systemic exposure resembles that linked to toxic reactions in test 
animals.  The  therapy  cannot  be  said  to  have  a  safety  margin.  But  to  achieve  optimum  benefit,  a 
predictable  degree  of  risk  has  to  be  accepted  and  in  this  case  outweighs  the  potential  for  toxicity 
indicated  by  the  preclinical  animal  data.  Intensified  surveillance  and  a  post-marketing  surveillance 
study were requested as a specific obligation to the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
Mutagenic potential 
A variation was submitted to update the preclinical safety data section of the SmPC (Section 5.3) to 
include  advice  on  the  mutagenic  potential  of  MMF  observed  with  repeated  administration,  arising 
from tests suggested by the FDA.  
Data from one in vitro (No 104 M 00) and one in vivo (No 169 M 00) study were provided.  
The  mouse  lymphoma/  thymidine  kinase  model  was  used  to  test  for  mutagenicity  in  vitro.   
Cell  survival  was  assessed  together  with  changes  in  the  number  of  mutant  clones  induced  in  the 
presence of MMF.  The presence of enhanced numbers of small colonies was considered indicative of 
clastogenic  activity.    The  authors  of  the  study  conclude  that  MMF  has  weak  mutagenic  and 
clastogenic activity.  Further, that the clastogenic activity observed has no carcinogenic consequences 
since  in  a  previous  study  (Syntex  study  AT  6703,  not  resubmitted)  no  tumorigenic  effects  in  mice 
were observed after 2 years of treatment with 180mg/kg/day.  In her report, the assessor concurs with 
this conclusion. 
The mouse bone marrow micronucleus test was used to test for mutagenicity in vivo. Cytotoxicity was 
measured  by  the  ratio  of  polychromatic  cells  to  normochromatic  cells  (PCE/NCE)  per  animal.  
Mutagenicity  was  estimated  by  the  occurrence  of  micronuclei.  Male  and  female  mice  received  
30, 100 or 300mg/kg MMF by oral gavage for 1 to 10 days in the initial dose range finder assay and 
for  1  or  8  days  in  the  main  study.    Bone  marrow  cells  were  harvested  24  hours  after  the  last 
administered dose of MMF or 24 to 72 hours after the single MMF dose. Cytotoxicity was measured 
by the ratio of PCE/NCE per animal.  Mutagenicity was estimated by the occurrence of micronuclei 
per NCE and /or micronuclei per sample of at least 4000 PCE per animal. The data show that a clear 
mutagenic  effect  is  observed  when  mice  are  repeatedly  treated  with  high  doses  of  oral  MMF  for 
several days (300mg/kg/day for 2-8 days, cf normal dose ~30-40mg/kg/day in humans).   
The  validity  of  the  study  was  questioned  since  %  of  polychromatic  erythrocytes  relative  to 
normochromatic erythrocytes (% PCE), appears to vary by more than the designated 40% in several 
groups in both the dose range finder study and the main study and between males and females of the 
same treatment groups. However, it is accepted that the validity criteria should apply primarily to the 
control groups. 
In  addition,  the  reason  for  choosing  8  days  treatment  in  the  main  study  was  not  provided.   
The  main  study  could  under-  or  overestimate  MMF  mutagenic  effects  due  to  the  selection  of  an 
6/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
this  has  not  been  demonstrated 
inappropriate  time  point.  The  MAH  selected  a  treatment  period  of  8  days  after  performing  an 
extensive range  finder assay with 2,4,6,8,10 days  treatment.   It  may  be  that  MMF is less  mutagenic 
than the data suggest but, since clastogenicity has only been assessed at one time point, this is difficult 
to establish.  Also, there was an implicit assumption that mutagenicity is correlated with cytotoxicity, 
but 
significant 
clastogenicity/mutagenicity  is  present  when  cytotoxicity  is  not  marked,  hence  “at  cytotoxic  dose 
levels” was removed from the SPC. Also, justification for the proposed wording is based on only the 
highest dose giving a positive mutagenic effect. The mutagenicity test was considered positive by the 
MAH if 3 pre-set conditions were met.  Although the highest dose tested passed these conditions, no 
statistical  analysis  was  provided  to  ascertain  if  the  middle  dose  was  significantly  mutagenic.  
The  assessor  concluded  that  the  SPC  wording  should  be  revised  to  reflect  the  mutagenic  activity  at 
100 mg/kg/day.   
study.  Statistically 
in  vivo 
the 
for 
In  the  light  of  the  positive  mutagenic  studies,  at  relatively  low  doses,  submitted  with  this  variation,  
the  data  in  the  original  toxicology  dossier  were  re-analysed.  This  analysis  showed  that  the  original 
carcinogenicity  studies  were  positive.    It  is  however  concluded  that  although  statistically  significant 
carcinogenicity  is  present  in  the  animal  studies,  the  magnitude  of  this  effect  is  unlikely  to  have  any 
clinical relevance.  Moreover, it would seem that there is little to distinguish between the genotoxic / 
carcinogenic  potential  of  all  the  immunosuppressants  cited,especially  when  the  increased  risk  of 
cancer due to immunosuppression per se is taken into account.   
The  Safety Working  Party (SWP)  concluded that the  genotoxic potential  of  MMF was related to  its 
mechanism  of  action.    As  such,  this  raised  no  new  safety  issues  and  the  benefit  to  risk  remained 
favourable for MMF treatment.   
In terms of the genotoxic risks of using MMF in children, the SWP assessed them to be less than those 
for other immunosuppressants such as azathioprine. 
In conclusion, from the data submitted, MMF is associated with statistically significant clastogenicity 
and carcinogenicity in animal studies.  The MAH argued that the latter is due to immuno-suppression 
per  se,  rather  than  due  to  the  clastogenicity  observed.    The  clinical  data  comparing  MMF  with 
azathioprine would suggest that this may be so.  Furthermore, the magnitude of the genotoxic effects 
seen with MMF may suggest that they are not of clinical relevance, and that they do not change the 
positive benefit to risk of MMF as an immunosuppressant.   However section 5.3 of the SPC addresses 
pre-clinical  safety  data  and,  as  such,  should  clearly  reflect  the  positive  nature  of  the  genotoxicity 
studies  in  animals.    The  SPC  wording  was  revised  as  to  reflect  the  positive  nature  of  these 
mutagenicity  and  carcinogenicity  studies  in  animals.  Considering  that  statistically  significant 
clastogenicity/mutagenicity is also present at 100mg/kg/day MMF for 8 days, when cytotoxicity is not 
marked, “at cytotoxic dose levels” was removed: two genotoxicity assays (in vitro mouse lymphoma 
assay  and  in  vivo  mouse  bone  marrow  micronucleus  test)  showed  a  potential  of  MMF  to  cause 
chromosomal  aberrations.  These  effects  can  be  related  to  the  pharmacodynamic  mode  of  action,  i.e. 
inhibition of nucleotide synthesis in sensitive cells.  Other in vitro tests for detection of gene mutation 
did not demonstrate genotoxic activity.” 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The assessment of clinical aspects of the dossier is reported according to the different main stages of 
development  separately,  namely  for  the  renal  and  cardiac  transplant  programme,  the  line  extensions 
for powder for solution for infusion and powder for oral suspension, the hepatic transplant programme 
and paediatric renal transplant programme. 
Renal and Cardiac transplantation programme 
Clinical pharmacology (Capsules, tablets) 
Following  oral  administration,  MMF  undergoes  first  pass  metabolism  to  MPA  with  MMF  not 
detectable in the systemic circulation. 
MPA  is  metabolised  principally  by  glucuronyl  transferase  to  form  the  phenolic  glucuronide 
mycophenolic acid glucuronide (MPAG) which is pharmacologically inactive.  
7/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
MMF is almost completely absorbed following oral administration and the mean bioavailability, based 
on MPA AUC, is about 94% in healthy volunteers. MPA at clinically relevant concentrations is 97% 
bound to plasma albumin. The main route of elimination of MPA is excretion in urine as MPAG. 
In the main efficacy study in cardiac transplanted patients, plasma samples were obtained in a sub-set 
of patients. MPA, Cmax and AUC increased with time between the first few days after treatment and 
after 6 months but these findings were not statistically significant. Similar findings occur when MMF 
is used in renal transplant patients. 
Mean  plasma  concentrations  of  the  phenolic  glucuronide  of  MPA  (MPAG)  were  2-3  times  greater 
after 5 days treatment compared with day 1 post-transplant, but reached a plateau with long-term use.  
In  general  MPA  and  MPAG  plasma  concentrations  increase  with  dose  and  MPA  steady  state  was 
achieved in 3-5 days of multiple dosing. 
Bioequivalence 
In  comparison  with  CellCept  capsules,  tablets  provide  a  concentration-time  profile  that  is 
characterised by a bioequivalent AUC and a  slightly reduced Cmax.  However there  is  no evidence to 
suggest that the lower Cmax of the tablet can affect the efficacy. Therefore, the tablet formulation was 
considered to be an acceptable alternative pharmaceutical form. 
Clinical Efficacy  
The  clinical  indication  (capsules  and  tablets)  related  to  the  prophylaxis  of  acute  organ  rejection  in 
renal  and  cardiac  transplantation  is  supported  by  three  large  double  blind  studies  in  renal  transplant 
patients,  one  against  placebo  and  two  against  azathioprine  (AZA)  and  one  large  double  blind  study 
against AZA in cardiac transplant patients. 
Renal transplant studies 
The  MMF  clinical  programme  for  the  indication  of  prevention  of  renal  allograft  rejection  involved  
3  randomised,  double-blind,  multicentre  trials  with  1493  patients  who  received  concomitant 
cyclosporin A (CsA) and corticosteroids  (see Table 1). Two of these  trials had a 3 arm parallel group 
design (AZA, MMF 2 g, MMF 3 g) in which regimens for the prevention of allograft rejection were 
compared. The primary efficacy endpoint was biopsy proven acute rejection or treatment failure in the 
first  6  months  after  transplantation.  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  presumptive  acute  rejection, 
treatment  of  rejection,  cumulative  doses  of  immunosuppressants,  renal  function  and  graft/patient 
survival. 
Although no formal dose-ranging study has been performed, the choice of daily doses 2 g and 3 g for 
the  pivotal  clinical  trials  was  justified  based  upon  the  relationship  between  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
MMF  and  its  clinical  effects,  as  confirmed  in  a  Randomised  Concentration  Control  Trial  of  MMF, 
when combined with CsA and cortcosteroids.. 
Table 1.  Summary of pivotal efficacy studies graft rejection rates 
Design of the study 
No. of Patients  Outcome/Comment 
double blind placebo 
controlled 
491 
double blind 
azathioprine controlled 
499 
double blind 
azathioprine controlled  
503 
Prevention of acute rejection. Graft rejection rates 
were  significantly  higher  in  the  placebo  group 
than in the groups treated with MMF 
Prevention  of acute rejection. Graft rejection rates 
were significantly higher in the azathioprine group 
than in the groups treated with MMF  
Prevention  of acute rejection. Graft rejection rates 
were significantly higher in the azathioprine group 
than in the groups treated with MMF  
Abbreviations: MMF: mycophenolate mofetil. 
These  studies  showed  that  MMF  1  or  1,5  g  administered  orally  twice  a  day  is  more  effective  as  an 
adjunctive  immunosuppressant  to  a  standard  immunosuppressive  regimen  of  cyclosporin  and 
corticosteroids  than  either  azathioprine  or  placebo  in  reducing  the  incidence  of  biopsy-proven 
8/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
rejection or treatment failure during the first 6 months after renal transplantation. The best benefit-risk 
ratio was in favour of MMF 2 g daily and this dose was chosen to be recommended for the prevention 
of rejection. 
All  patients  from  the  3  controlled  prevention  trials  were  followed  for  graft  and  patient  survival  at  
1 year post-transplant.  The data obtained were supportive  of  the  efficacy and safety  observed in the 
analyses performed when all patients had completed 6 months. 
Cardiac transplant studies 
The  clinical  programme  for  the  indication  of  prevention  of  cardiac  allograft  rejection  involved  one 
randomised,  double-blind  parallel  group  comparison  study  of  MMF  and  AZA,  both  in  conjunction 
with cyclosporin and corticosteroids. 
Azathioprine is an immunosuppressant, which is approved to enhance the survival of organ transplants 
including cardiac transplants in conjunction with cyclosporin and steroids. 
The dose of CellCept used for the clinical study was 3 g/day (1.5 g bid) starting as soon as possible 
after  transplant.  The  choice  of  the  dose  was  according  to  the  study  investigators’  views  and  it  was 
based  on  clinical  considerations  (not  to  risk  using  a  potential  under-immunosuppressive  dose  of 
CellCept) and on statistical considerations (limited numbers of cardiac transplants performed). 
Table 2 shows the efficacy results and the long-term data are also presented (study MYCS 1864). 
Table 2.  Results of pivotal efficacy study and long term data  
Randomised 
Treated 
Rejection with haemodynamic 
Compromise + re-transplant + death 
in first 6 months 
(Re-transplant +)1 death in first 12 
months 
AZA 
121/323 
38% 
49/323 
15% 
Re-transplant + death in 
first 24 months 
65/323 
20.1% 
MMF 
120/327 
37% 
p=0.75 
42/327 
13% 
δ=2% 
LCL=-2.5% 
54/327 
16.5% 
δ=3.8% 
LCL=-1.8% 
AZA 
100/289 
35% 
33/289 
11% 
49/289 
17% 
MMF 
92/289 
32% 
p=-0.34 
18/289 
6% 
δ=5.2% 
LCL=0.9%
(p=0.026) 
27/289 
9.3% 
δ=7.6% 
LCL=2.5% 
Mortality to date 
(from safety data) 
66/323 
20% 
52/327 
16% 
50/289 
17% 
28/289 
10% 
Rejection with severe haemo-
dynamic compromise + re-transplant 
+ death in first  
6 months 
Abbreviations: see Table 1; AZA: azathioprine; LCL: Lower limit of 95% confidence interval (Non-inferiority 
limit is –10%); δ: AZA-MMF (difference in incidence) 
1  Only 1 re-transplant occurred and the patient died 1 month later 
33/289 
11% 
(p=0.045) 
59/327 
18% 
(p=0.49) 
50/289 
17% 
65/323 
20% 
As  far  as  the  long-term  efficacy  data  are  concerned,  the  2-year  data  confirm  the  non  inferiority  of 
MMF compared to AZA for graft loss (re-transplant + death), with a difference between treatments of 
7.6% with lower limit of the 95% confidence interval of 2.5%. 
9/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Safety  
Renal transplant studies 
At the time of authorisation adverse event data were available from 3155 patients treated with doses 
up  to  5g  MMF  daily.  One  year  data  on  those  patients  in  trials  with  MMF  were  provided  at  a  later 
stage. 
The  most  frequent  adverse  events  occurred  in  the  gastrointestinal  and  haematological  systems. 
Additional  data  provided  reassurance  in  relation  to  malignant  lymphoma/lymphoproliferative 
disorders. Results obtained were in accordance with the known highest risk period for development of 
lymphoma/lymphoproliferative diseases in transplant patients receiving standard therapy, which is the 
first  year  post-transplantation.  One  year  data  on  opportunistic  infections  showed  no  impact  on  the 
increase  of  their  incidence  .  The  number  of  patients  treated  with  MMF  and  the  duration  of  their 
treatment at the recommended dose of 2g/daily were sufficient for the determination of the safety of 
MMF. 
Cardiac transplant studies 
Safety was considered for up to 2.5 years. Seventy percent (201/289) of the cardiac patients who took 
at  least  one  dose  of  MMF  and  60%(173/289)  of  the  AZA  patients  had  been  followed  up  for  over  
1 year. 
In  cardiac  patients,  the  most  common  adverse  events  over/up  to  2.5  year  exposure  were  gastro-
intestinal symptoms (e.g. nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting), leucopenia, abnormal liver function tests, and 
infections. Adverse events, which were more common with MMF compared to AZA in study MYCS 
1864,  are  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  opportunistic  infections,  namely  herpes  simplex  and  Zoster.  
The incidence of haemoptysis was also higher in MMF treated patients (13/289, 4.5%) than in AZA 
treated  patients  (2/289,  0.7%).  According  to  the  additional  comments  that  were  provided  by  the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder, the severity was mild, many cases appeared to be blood staining in 
the sputum rather than blood loss from the lung and the platelets levels and other clotting factors did 
not  appear to show any clinically relevant difference between AZA and MMF. Leucopenia was less 
common (4.5% with AZA and 3.5% with MMF). 
Since  the  original  data  stated  that  the  3  g  dose  may  have  a  worse  safety  profile  than  2  g  daily  and, 
therefore,  it  was  difficult  to  determine  the  degree  and  the  consequences  on  the  benefit/risk  ratio,  a 
comparison of the safety profile of MMF at 2 and 3 g per day in renal transplant patients with that of  
3  g  per  day  in  cardiac  transplant  was  done.  A  comparison  of  deaths,  malignancies,  opportunistic 
infections, serious adverse events and premature discontinuations from the study was done: 
Differences of 5% or greater in the parameters are commented here below. 
In the cardiac study (MYCS 1864) the death rate at any time post-operatively regardless whether the 
patient  was  on  study  medication  was  14.5%  on  AZA  and  8%  on  MMF  (3  g  per  day).  In  the  renal 
studies the relative percentages ranged between 5.1% and 6.4%. This difference is likely to relate to a 
greater peri-operative morbidity in patients having cardiac transplants. 
Opportunistic  infections  occurred  in  53.3%  of  cardiac  patients  on  3  g  per  day  of  MMF  and  for  the 
other regimens this ranged from 43.6% to 47.6%. The difference may be explained by a greater degree 
of  peri-operative  morbidity  and  more  extensive  surgery  in  cardiac  transplant  patients.  No  clear-cut 
pattern  emerges  which  relates  the  severity  of  the  infection  with  the  higher  doses,  however,  the 
incidence  of  CMV  tissue  invasion  and  Aspergillus  infections  with  MMF  (3  g  per  day)  was 
significantly  lower  than  with  the  use  of  AZA  (6  versus  14).  The  revised  SPC  now  has  a  statement 
pointing  out  the  increased,  dose  dependent,  incidence  of  opportunistic  infections  with  CellCept  as 
opposed to AZA and the issue of fatal infections/sepsis is also covered. 
Severe hepatitis occurred at 1.2% or less in the renal transplant patients but was 4.2 and 5.5% for AZA 
and MMF (3 g per day), respectively, in the cardiac transplant study (MYCS 1864). This again is an 
indicator  that  patients  having  cardiac  transplants  have  more  peri-operative  morbidity,  particularly 
heart  failure,  than  those  having  renal  transplant.  In  addition,  surgery  is  more  extensive  with 
cardiopulmonary by-pass, transfusions, more extensive anaesthesia. These factors would increase the 
risk  of  post-operative  hepatic  events.  However,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  committed  to 
closely monitor the post-marketing experience for hepatic reactions and specifically address the issue 
in the subsequent PSURs. 
10/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
Severe neutropenia (neutrophil count of less than 500 per ml) was observed more frequently in both 
cardiac and renal transplant patients treated with MMF 3 g per day than in patients treated with AZA. 
The reaction is dose-dependent since it’s frequency was lower in patients treated with MMF 2 g per 
day. Therefore, this was clearly documented in the SPC. 
With regard to all the other parameters (including withdrawal from study) it was considered that the 
reporting  frequencies  were  within  the  5%  of  one  another  and  were  therefore  probably  of  no  major 
clinical relevance. 
Overall Conclusions and benefit/risk assessment (Renal and Cardiac transplant) 
Quality 
The active substance is well-defined, and the products are formulated, manufactured and controlled in 
a  way  that  is  characteristic  of  this  pharmaceutical  form.  The  specifications  guarantee  a  consistent 
product  with  uniform  bioavailability  from  batch  to  batch  and  the  safety  of  the  impurities  has  been 
demonstrated with reference to toxicology studies. Therefore, there are no outstanding major quality 
issues which may have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  applicant  provided  a  satisfactory  answer  to  each  question/  objection 
that arose during the examination of the toxicological and pharmacological documentation. To reflect 
those  data  and  to  address  minor  comments  by  CPMP  Members  amendments  to  the  SPC  were 
implemented. 
Clinical Efficacy 
Renal  transplantation  has  become  the  preferred  treatment  option  for  patients  in  end-stage  renal 
disease. Immunosuppressant therapy is necessary to avoid renal allograft rejection.  
The trials provided convincing evidence of the efficacy of MMF as adjunctive therapy to cyclosporine 
and prednisolone in preventing rejection after renal or cardiac transplant. 
Clinical Safety 
The  number  of  patients  treated  with  MMF  and  the  duration  of  their  treatment  at  the  recommended 
dose  of  2g/daily  for  renal  transplant  patients  and  3g/daily  for  cardiac  transplant  patients  were 
sufficient for the determination of the safety of MMF. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
During  the  review  process  for  both  the  renal  and  the  cardiac  indications  for  CellCept,  the  CPMP 
Members  raised  questions  regarding  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  which  resulted  in  the  supply  of 
additional  data,  especially  data  from  1  and  2-  year  patient  follow-up  and  graft  survival.  Significant 
modifications  of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package  Leaflet  were  made  by  the 
Members to reflect those data and to address minor comments. 
Recommendation 
In  the  light  of  all  clarifications  and  additional  data  provided  by  the  company  the  CPMP  issued  the 
corresponding  positive  opinions  for  renal  and  cardiac  indications  leading  to  the  granting  of  a 
Marketing Authorisation for CellCept in the following indication: 
“CellCept is indicated in combination with cyclosporin and corticosteroids for the prophylaxis of acute 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogeneic renal or cardiac transplants”. 
Line extension: Powder for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion 
Clinical pharmacology  (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
The  clinical  pharmacology  studies  with  the  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion 
formulation have been conducted in healthy volunteers, in renal and hepatic transplant patients and in 
patients with renal or hepatic impairment. These studies were aimed at identifying the optimal dose-
11/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
schedule  in  different  subject  samples  and  at  demonstrating  the  bioequivalence  between  oral  and 
intravenous  formulations,  through  the  comparison  of  the  relative  pharmacokinetic  parameters  
(Table 3). 
Table 3.  Clinical pharmacology studies (Powder for Solution for Infusion) 
Study  Description 
Population 
Study design 
No
.  
ICM 
1900 
CP 
2294 
Pharmacokinetics and 
safety of IV formulation 
Comparative 
bioavailability (IV vs 
oral) 
II  D 
2176 
Dose finding, 
pharmacokinetics in the 
proposed regimen 
MYC 
061 
To identify an IV 
regimen which provides 
a plasma MPA 
concentration profile 
similar to that obtained 
following MMF orally 
MYC
S 2734 
Bioavailability when 
switching from IV 
infusion to oral 
administration 
6   Healthy subjects  Dose-escalation, single dose (1.5 to 22.5 
mg/kg over 1 h vs placebo) 
12  Healthy subjects  Open, randomised, single dose, CO over 
vs oral (1.5 g oral vs 1.5 g IV ) 
30  Renal transpl. 
62  Renal transpl. 
Open, dose finding ( 2 g IV bid over 40 
min for 7 days; 3 g IV bid over 60 min 
for 7 days followed by 1.5 g bid orally for 
7 days)  
Open, randomised, PG (1.5 g IV bid over 
1 hour for 7 days, 1.5 g iv bid over 3 
hours for 7 days and 3 g IV bid over  
24 hours for 7 days followed by 1.5 g bid 
orally for up to 12 weeks) 
31 
First  or  second 
renal transpl. 
Open, in the immediate post-operative 
period (1 g IV bid over 2 hours for  
4 days followed by 1 g bid orally for 7 
days) 
II  D 
2190 
Pharmacokinetics in 
paediatric patients 
2 
Renal 
(paediatric) 
transpl. 
Case records 
II  D 
2104 
Dose finding in 
prevention of rejection  
MYC
S 2378 
Pharmacokinetics and 
safety 
24  Hepatic transpl.  Open, dose finding  
(1.75 g IV over 1 hour followed by 1.75 
or 2.00 or 2.25 or 2.5 g bid oral for up to 
90 days) 
45  Hepatic transpl.  Open, randomised (2 g bid IV over 80 
min, 2 g bid IV over 3 hours or  
4 g/day continuously for 7 days followed 
by 2 g bid orally for up to  
3 years) 
Open, single oral dose  
(1 g per os then 1 g IV  
40 min infusion in 4 patients) 
Open, single dose (1 g IV over 40 min) 
CPP 
2118 
CPP 
030 
Pharmacokinetics  
25  Renal 
Pharmacokinetics 
6 
impairment 
Hepatic 
impairment 
CO = cross over; PG = parallel group; bid = twice daily; IV=intravenous 
Healthy volunteers (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
One  study  carried  out  in  healthy  volunteers  proved  that  the  kinetic  parameters  (C  max  and  AUC) 
relative  to  the  product  itself  (MMF),  the  active  metabolite  (MPA)  and  the  glucuronide  (MPAG) 
increase  proportionally  with  the  administered  dose  and  that,  following  intravenous  administration, 
MMF is rapidly metabolised to MPA (table 4). 
12/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Table 4.  Study ICM 1900 – Healthy Volunteers (n=6) MPA Parameters - Mean (SD) 
IV Dose(mg/kg) 
AUC0-48) (µg.h/ml) 
AUC(µg.h/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
1.5 
7.5 
15 
22.5 
4.21 (0.80) 
30.8 (5.28) 
67.3 (7.31) 
116 (14.8) 
N/C 
34.1 (5.37) 
70.8 (7.13) 
121 (14.0) 
2.51 (0.41) 
15.8 (1.82) 
35.3 (4.79) 
60.2 (7.20) 
In  healthy  volunteers,  the  MPA  AUC  after  1.5  g  single  intravenous  and  oral  dose  was 
108±26.0  µg.h/ml  and  101±23.4  µg.h/ml,  respectively,  proving  the  two  different  formulations  are 
bioequivalent. 
Renal transplant studies (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
As far  as  the  studies in renal transplant patients  are  concerned,  MPA AUC is  comparable following 
oral or intravenous administration and it is unaffected by rate of intravenous infusion of MMF.  
The  shifting  from  a  1.5  g  bid  intravenous  to  the  same  oral  dose  does  not  affect  the  MPA  AUC0-12 
(39.1±9.86 µg.h/ml after 7-day intravenous administration versus 30.3±13.9 µg.h/ml after  1 day oral 
administration),  although  Cmax  was 
(7.95±4.91  versus 
20.9±6.35 µg.h/ml). 
lower  after  oral  administration 
MPA  AUC  following  intravenous  and  oral  doses  were  lower  in  renal  transplant  patients,  in  the 
immediate  post-transplant  period,  than  those  found  in  healthy  volunteers.  This  was  consistent  with 
previous oral administration. The reasons for this remain unclear. 
Based on the above studies a dosage schedule of MMF of 1 g bid infused over 2 hours was identified. 
This provides an MPA AUC equal to or greater than that provided by MMF 1 g bid per os. From the 
pharmacokinetic:pharmacodynamic  (PK/PD)  relationship  this  is  predicted  to  provide  comparable 
efficacy to the same dose given orally in patients following renal transplantation. 
Hepatic transplant studies (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
In patients with hepatic transplants, MPA AUC values following powder for sterile concentrate were 
similar to (dose adjusted) those found following renal transplantation. 
Oral MMF administration produced lower mean MPA AUCs than those observed in renal transplant 
patients. However, this was a transient phenomenon with a 2-3 fold increase in AUC with the same 
was  comparable  to 
dose  of  MMF  maintained  for  up  to  12  months.  By  months  9/12  MPA  AUC
(appropriately  dose-adjusted)  MPA  AUC
0-12  in 
healthy subjects. 
0-12  in  renal  transplant  patients  and  single  dose  AUC
0-12
The  lower  MPA  concentrations  following  oral  MMF  in  hepatic  transplant  patients,  in  the  period 
immediately following transplantation, may be attributable to diminished enterohepatic circulation or 
reduced absorption of drug material in this patient population. 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
impairment  does  not  appear 
Renal 
intravenous:  per  os 
pharmacokinetics  and  MMF  clearance  and  biotransformation  to  MPA  were  not  greatly  affected  by 
hepatic impairment. 
to  produce  major  differences 
in 
Bioavailability and bioequivalence 
A  6-day  open  label  multi-dose  pharmacokinetic  study  was  carried  out  comparing  intravenous 
administration  of  this  product  (1  g  over  2  hours,  twice  daily)  with  orally  administered  CellCept 
  during 
Capsules  250  mg  (1  g,  twice  daily).  Plasma  MPA  was  measured.  The  mean  AUC
intravenous  treatment  was  approximately  24%  greater,  and  the  mean  Cmax  12%  greater  than  that 
measured  during  oral  treatment.  The  company  concludes  that  the  intravenous  treatment  regimen 
provides  a  satisfactory  alternative  to  oral  treatment  in  the  immediate  post-transplant  period.  
This study is fully assessed in the assessment report on Part IV. 
0-12
13/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
Dissolution rate data provided for the batch of capsules used in this study showed that the product is 
well within the product specification limit. 
Clinical safety (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
Three  hundred and sixty nine subjects and  patients (367 adults and  2  children)  received at  least one 
dose of MMF powder for solution for infusion. The safety data base provides information following 
MMF intravenous administration to patients following renal, hepatic, combined renal and pancreatic 
transplantation  and  subjects  receiving  single  doses  of  MMF  in  pharmacokinetic  studies.  Most  data 
from transplant patients was obtained during a period of intravenous administration in the early post 
transplant period which was then followed by oral administration. 
In  this  assessment  study  MYC  2172  is  important  in  that  it  provides  controlled  data  permitting  a 
comparison  of  the  safety  of  intravenously  and  orally  administered  MMF  in  renal  transplant  patients 
during  the  immediate  post  transplant  period  and  a  comparison  between  intravenous  active  and 
intravenous placebo. 
Minor  differences  in  the  unwanted  effect  profile  related  to  site  of  infusion  with  a  low  incidence  of 
phlebitis and thrombosis peripherally following active medication. Administration via a central venous 
catheter presents an acceptable alternative with similar safety. 
In  this  critical  post  operative  stage  following  renal  transplantation  there  were  no  features  of  the 
powder for concentrate for solution for infusion safety profile which would detract from its use, given 
adherence to the recommendation that MMF must not be administered by rapid or bolus intravenous 
infusion. The SPC recommends that the 1 g dose is diluted to 6 mg/ml and administered slowly over  
2 hours. 
Gastrointestinal  events  were  reported  with  a  comparable  frequency  following  intravenous  and  oral 
administration. 
The  relatively  high  adverse  event  rates  reported  are  features  of  the  patient  populations  and  the 
immediate post transplant period when multiple concomitant medication is being administered. 
The SPC states that the  product should be used only in units specialised in the care of renal/hepatic 
transplant  patients.  This  will  ensure  adequate  and  appropriate  haematological  and  biochemical 
monitoring and treatment of eventual untoward effects of the immunosuppression. It will also ensure 
strict attention to the intravenous infusion site to minimise local effects and any longer term effects. 
Conclusions  concerning  the  relationship  between  dose  and  safety  (as  mentioned  above)  were 
confounded  by  the  relatively  small  numbers  of  patients  who  received  MMF  1.5  mg  bid  powder  for 
sterile concentrate, the uncontrolled nature of this information and that different reporting practices in 
Europe  compared  to  North  America  could  have  been  responsible  for  the  apparent  better  profile  of 
MMF  1.5  mg  bid  powder  for  sterile  concentrate  compared  to  MMF  1.0  g  bid  powder  for  sterile 
concentrate. 
Safety data in other clinical settings provided support for the  use of MMF powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion. 
MMF  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  permits  use  in  the  immediate  post  transplant 
period, when it is recognised that the start of immunosuppressive therapy is important and when oral 
therapy  may not  be  possible  or  appropriate.  Further,  the  product  can  be  used,  in  the  proposed  dose, 
regardless of renal function at the time. Overall the benefit: risk assessment would favour use in the 
immediate post renal transplant period. 
Discussion and benefit/risk assessment (Powder for Concentrate Solution for Infusion) 
The quality of CellCept 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, as demonstrated in 
the chemical, pharmaceutical documentation, was considered acceptable. 
The  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  to  assess  bioavailability  followed  standard  practice  and  were 
randomised with an appropriate washout. 
The studies in patients following renal transplantation of necessity used one sequence intravenous to 
oral  and  had  to  be  conducted  within  a  limited  time  period  and  with  continual  administration.  
The design in the renal transplant patient studies (061, MYC 2734 and IID 2176) presented more as an 
14/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
assessment  of  formulation  switch  rather  than  a  formal  investigation  of  bioavailability.  However,  the 
design was in line with the proposed clinical use. 
Preliminary  studies  lead  to  an  anticipation  of  a  closer  match  of  mean  MPA  AUC  following 
intravenous  and  oral  MMF  than  was  found  in  study  MYC  2734  which  demonstrated  higher  AUC 
following  intravenous  than  oral  administration.  Given  that  safety  was  not  compromised  following 
intravenous use and that the PK/PD relationship shows that MPA AUC is related to the probability of 
rejection,  the  values  found  following  intravenous  administration  should  provide  comparable 
immunosuppressive activity to that following oral administration. 
MPA  AUC  following  intravenous  and  oral  administration  of  MMF  was  lower  in  renal  transplant 
patients  in  the  immediate  post  transplant  period  compared  to  healthy  volunteers.  This  is  consistent 
with previous experience but the reasons remain unclear. 
The  safety  of  MMF  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  did  not  show  clinically 
meaningful  differences  when  compared  to  oral  administration  apart  from  a  low  incidence  of 
thrombosis and phlebitis associated with the infusion site. 
The  data  provide  support  for  the  suitability  of  intravenous  use  as  an  alternative  when  oral 
administration is not feasible in the period immediately following renal transplantation for a maximum 
duration of 14 days. 
In conclusion, the active substance is well-defined, and the products are formulated, manufactured and 
controlled in a way that is characteristic of this pharmaceutical form. The specifications guarantee a 
consistent product with uniform bioavailability from batch to batch and the safety of the impurities has 
been demonstrated  with  reference to toxicology studies. Therefore, there  were  no  outstanding  major 
quality issues which may have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
CPMP Recommendation 
The CPMP considered this Line Extension to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  based  on  the  observations  and  the 
appropriate conclusions. 
Line extension: Powder for Oral Suspension 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (Powder for Oral Suspension) 
Following  oral  administration  MMF  is  rapidly  absorbed  and  then  de-esterified  to  form  the  active 
MPA.  This  is  further  metabolised  to  the  pharmacologically  inactive  glucuronide  (MPAG). 
Bioavailability studies have determined both the MPA and MPAG plasma levels. 
Pilot study MYCS 2644 
This study investigated the comparative bioavailability of a single 1000mg dose of MMF from a 'fast-
dissolving' and a 'slow-dissolving' suspension formulation (containing 0.08% and 0.24% xanthan gum 
respectively)  and  from  4  x  250mg  capsules.  The  suspension  and  capsule  formulations  were 
bioequivalent  in  all  respects  other  than  Tmax  which  was  shorter  for  the  suspension  formulations.  
The  slow-dissolving  suspension  containing  0.24%  xanthan  gum  gave  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
slightly  closer  to  those  from  the  capsule.  However  a  level  of  0.16%  xanthan  gum  was  chosen  for 
further development of the product. Since the slow-dissolving suspension produced an in vivo Tmax 
of  0.525  hours  (±0.175)  and  the  fast-dissolving  suspension  0.536  hours  (±0.266)  no  particular 
conclusions can be drawn regarding the discriminatory power of the in vitro test method. 
Bioequivalence Study MYCS 2684 
This was the definitive comparative study between the intended commercial formulation of suspension 
and the existing capsule product. Single 1000 mg doses of MMF were administered in a randomised 
cross-over design study, using 5ml of suspension of four 250mg capsules. The two formulations were 
bioequivalent (within 90% confidence intervals for the ratios) with respect to AUC, AUClast and Cmax 
for  both  MPA  and  MPAG.  The  plasma  MPA  Tmax  for  suspension  and  capsule  were  0.666  hours 
(±0.426) and 0.825 (±0.351) respectively but this is not a statistically significant difference. However, 
the  plasma  MPAG  Tmax  did  show  a  significantly  faster  appearance  of  the  glucuronide  when  the 
15/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
suspension formulation was given. The conclusions are that the oral suspension is bioequivalent to the 
capsule. 
Benefit/risk assessment (Powder for Oral Suspension) 
The active substance is well-defined, and the products are formulated, manufactured and controlled in 
a  way  that  is  characteristic  of  this  pharmaceutical  form.  The  specifications  guarantee  a  consistent 
product  with  uniform  bioavailability  from  batch  to  batch  and  the  safety  of  the  impurities  has  been 
demonstrated with reference to toxicology studies. Therefore, there were no outstanding major quality 
issues which may have a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance.  
CPMP Recommendation 
The CPMP considered this Line Extension to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  based  on  the  observations  and  the 
appropriate conclusions. 
Interaction with Oral Contraceptives 
The MAH has submitted data from an open sequential design study (BP15543) of one menstrual cycle 
on oral contraceptives (OC), 3 cycles on OC plus MMF 1g bid and a final cycle on OC alone. 
The primary objective was to determine if MMF influenced the ovulation suppressing action of OCs 
as measured by plasma levels of luteinising hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and 
progesterone.  The  relevant  secondary  objective  was  to  assess  the  effects  of  MMF  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of OCs. 
Subjects were women with severe plaque psoriasis (not a current indication) taking any commercially 
available OC (bi-phasic and tri-phasic formulations were permitted after a protocol revision). Nine (9) 
different OC formulations were used.  
Clinical Efficacy 
Pharmacodynamic  results.    One  of  the  19  patients  was  excluded  from  all  results  because  of  lack  of 
compliance and two more were excluded from part of the pharmacokinetic evaluation.  Seventeen (17) 
of 18 women showed no relevant rise in progesterone.  In one patient (no 105), levels rose (from 2.09 
nmol/l to 4.08 nmol/l) indicating ovulation in cycle 4 but she took her OC (Varnoline) late for both 
cycles 2 and 4 and also was noted to take the OC at varying times of the day.  Serum LH and FSH 
levels  remained  suppressed  and  within  the  normal  range  for  women  on  OCs,  although  there  was  a 
slight trend LH levels to rise from cycle 1 to cycle 5. 
Pharmacokinetic  results.    The  ethinyloestradiol  AUC  and  Cmax.  values  with  and  without  MMF  were 
considered to be bioequivalent, however, for the two gestagens (3-keto-desogestel and levonorgestrel), 
the sample size was too small to draw conclusions at the 90%CI level. 
Clinical Safety 
In  the  5  months  of  the  study,  94%  (17/18)  patients  reported  67  adverse  events,  but  there  were  no 
serious adverse events and no study withdrawals due to adverse events.  Sixteen (16) severe adverse 
events were considered to be probably or possibly related to study treatment (OC and/or MMF), with 
14 reported when both OC and MMF were being taken concurrently.  Of these, there were 4 reports of 
upper  abdominal  pain  (in  3  subjects),  3  reports  of  headache  (3  subjects)  with  none  of  the  other  
7 events occurring more than once. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
The one study was performed in a small number of women with a relatively large number of different 
OCs,  however,  the  balance  of  evidence  is  that  MMF  is  unlikely  to  affect  the  efficacy  of  oral 
contraceptives and no gross interaction between OCs and MMF was detected 
Because  of  the  adverse  effects  of  MMF  on  fetal  development  appropriate  information  has  been 
included  in  the  Pregnancy  and  Lactation  section  of  the  SPC  on  the  lack  of  an  interaction  between 
CellCept and OCs. 
16/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
CPMP Recommendation 
The CPMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  based  on  the  observations  and  the 
appropriate conclusions. 
Interaction with Cyclosporin 
Variation  to  update  Section  5.2  of  the  SmPC  to  include  details  of  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with 
cyclosporin. 
The MAH has submitted a Clinical Expert Report presenting an overview of 8 studies evaluating the 
pharmacokinetic profile of MMF both with and without cyclosporin 
Pharmacokinetic properties  
In vitro studies (n=2) 
Two  in  vitro  studies  indicate  that  cyclosporin  may  inhibit  the  biliary  excretion  of  the  phenolic 
glucuronide of MPA (MPAG).  MPA (the 2-(4-morpholino) ethyl ester of mycophenolic acid) is the 
active  metabolite  of  inactive  MMF.    This  inhibition  would  reduce  the  extent  of  entero-hepatic  re-
cycling of MPA and result in a reduction in plasma levels of MPA. 
Studies comparing the pharmacokinetic profile of MMF with and without cyclosporin (n=2) 
Two renal studies, both carried out by the same investigator (Smak Gregoor), have been submitted.  
The first was a parallel group study in 18 patients receiving MMF plus cyclosporin A plus prednisone 
and  11  on  MMF  plus  prednisone.    Patients  had  been  on  MMF  2g/day  for  at  least  3  months.   
The  trough  MPA  levels  (micrograms/ml)  were  significantly  lower  (p<0.0001)  in  the  group  on 
cyclosporin  –  1.98±0.12  vs  4.38±0.40  in  the  non-cyclosporin  group.  The  second  study  was  in  
52 patients who had received MMF (2g/day) plus cyclosporin plus prednisone for 6 months after renal 
transplant .Pharmacokinetic parameters were measured after 3 months.  MPA levels during treatment 
with MMF plus cyclosporin plus prednisone were significantly lower (p=0.002) than with MMF plus 
prednisone (1,87micrograms/ml, 0.56-5.27 vs 3.16, 0.32-7.78).  In contrast, between 6 and 9 months, 
the MPA trough levels for patients continuing on triple therapy and those discontinuing prednisone did 
not change 
Studies comparing the pharmacokinetic profile of MMF with cyclosporin or tacrolimus (n=4) 
These 4 studies demonstrated that the pharmacokinetics of MMF were similar when administered with 
tacrolimus and when administered alone whereas plasma MPA levels in patients receiving cyclosporin 
were lower than in patients on MMF plus tacrolimus or MMF alone.  
DISCUSSION  
The  data  clearly  show  that  cyclosporin  reduces  MPA  levels.    However,  the  pivotal  clinical  efficacy 
studies  were  carried  out  using  a  combination  of  CellCept  plus  cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids,  with 
individual study centres often using doses of cyclosporin and prednisone they considered appropriate 
and adjusting doses to maintain the required blood levels and according to clinical need.  The SmPC 
clearly  states  that  CellCept  plus  cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids  should  be  used  in  the  currently 
authorised  indications.    Consequently,  the  interaction  between  CellCept  and  cyclosporin  has  no 
efficacy implications and the current dosing instructions are satisfactory.   
17/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Interaction with prodrug of aciclovir and ganciclovir 
The  MAH  has  submitted  an  Expert  Report.  Additional  data  from  studies  in  paediatric  and  adult 
patients  receiving  organ  transplants  and  data  from  a  review  of  reports  of  overdose  in  patients  being 
treated with MMF was also submitted.The interaction between CellCept and aciclovir and ganciclovir 
is    mentioned  in  the  currently  approved  SmPC.  The  current  evidence  suggest  that  the  prodrugs  of 
acyclovir  and  ganciclovir  (valaciclovir  and  valganciclovir  respectively),  are  subject  to  the  same 
interactions and should therefore be subject to the same precautions regarding concomitant  use with 
MMF  and  the  active  metabolite  (MPA).  Higher  MPAG  and  acyclovir  plasma  concentrations  have 
been observed when MMF was administered with either aciclovir or ganciclovir, than when the drugs 
have  been  administered  alone.    The  plasma  concentrations  of  MPAG,  aciclovir  and  ganciclovir  are 
increased  in  the  presence  of  renal  impairment.    Therefore,  the  potential  exists  for  MMF  and 
aciclovir/ganciclovir  to  compete  for  tubular  secretion,  further  increasing  the  concentrations  of  both 
drugs.The MAH has proposed to address these potential interactions by adding information about both 
prodrugs (valaciclovir and valganciclovir) to  the SmPC. 
Aciclovir:  The  changes  in  MPAG  pharmacokinetics  (MPAG  increased  by  8%)  were  minimal  in  the 
presence of renal impairment, as are aciclovir concentrations, the potential exists for  mycophenolate 
mofetil  and  aciclovir,  or  its  prodrugs,  e.g.  valaciclovir,  to  compete  for  tubular  secretion  and  further 
increases in concentration of both drugs may occur. 
Ganciclovir:  No  substantial  alteration  of  MPA  pharmacokinetics  are  anticipated  and  CellCept  dose 
adjustment is not required.  In patients with renal impairment in which CellCept and ganciclovir or its 
prodrugs, e.g. valganciclovir, are co-administered the dose recommendations for ganciclovir should be 
observed and patients monitored carefully. 
Hepatic transplant programme 
Clinical Pharmacology (Hepatic transplant) 
Following oral administration, MMF is rapidly and completely absorbed.  Both oral and IV MMF are 
completely  metabolised  to  the  active  component  MPA.  MPA,  which  is  subject  to  entero-hepatic 
circulation,  is  principally  metabolised  by  glucuronyl  transferase  to  the  inactive  phenol  glucuronide, 
MPAG. 
Study ICM 1812 and its extension, ICM 1813 
This was an open-label 56-day study in 158 post-graft patients including 35 liver transplant recipients.  
Patients  received  oral  MMF  in  doses  ranging  from  1.5  to  3.5g  daily  for  treatment  of  refractory 
rejections.  The mean treatment start date in these patients was 147 days post-transplant. 
0-12
There was great variability in most pharmacokinetic parameters, however the MPA and MPAG Cmax 
  increased  with  dose  (1g  bd  versus  1.5g  bd)  but  there  were  insufficient  patients  to 
and  AUC
determine these parameters for higher doses.  After the first dose of 1g of MMF, the MPA and MPAG 
Cmax  and  AUC
  for  hepatic  patients  were  slightly  lower  than  in  the  renal  transplant  patients  with 
refractory rejection.  
0-12
Study IID 2104 
This  was  an  open-label  3-month  dose-escalation  pharmacokinetic  study  in  liver  transplant  patients 
receiving  MMF  plus  ATG  (antithymocyte  globulin),  cyclosporin  and  prednisone.  Patients  were 
randomised  to  receive  1.75,  2.0,  2.25  or  2.5g  of  oral  MMF  bid  after  an  initial  4  days  at  1.75g  bid.  
Six  patients  received  a  single  dose  of  1.75g  of  MMF  by  infusion.    In  addition  to  plasma 
pharmacokinetic measures on days 11 and 15 the biliary excretion of MPA and MPAG was measured. 
It should be noted that the sub-groups were small ranging between 2 and 6 patients.   
18/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
There  was  a  considerable  inter-patient  variability  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  but  following  
s were comparable for oral dosing (for one day) and IV dosing 
1.75g of MMF the mean MPA AUC
(following a single infusion).  Following oral doses, no direct relationship between MMF dose (at any 
particular time) and MPA AUC was noted, however, there was a tendency for MPA AUC to increase 
over  the  3  months  of  the  study.    Approximately  20%  of  MPAG  (inactive  metabolite)  and  less  than  
1% of MPA (active metabolite) were excreted in the bile. 
0-12
Study MYCS 2378 
This  open  clinical  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics  of  MPA  and  MPAG  for  
3 infusion schedules of IV MMF followed by oral dosing in 45 hepatic transplant recipients. Patients 
were randomised to receive one of three 24-hour infusion regimens: 2 g MMF bid as two 80 minute 
infusions, 1g MMF bid as two 3 hour infusions and 1g MMF qid as four 6 hour infusions. 
Each IV regimen lasted for approximately 7 days and was followed by a switch to oral MMF, 2g bid, 
for up to 3 years post transplant. Pharmacokinetic parameters were evaluated in blood and urine in all 
patients  on each day between 1  and  7 (whilst  patients  were  on IV MMF), on  days 8 and  14,  month  
3 and sometime between months 6 and 12. 
MMF  became  unmeasurable  in  plasma  within  10  minutes  of  the  infusion  being  stopped  and  the 
estimated T1/2 was less than 2 minutes.  Following oral dosing, levels of the parent compound were 
very low or unmeasurable. 
After IV infusion, the plasma MPA Cmax showed an inverse relationship to the duration of the infusion. 
MPA Cmax after the 80 minute and 3 hour infusions were higher than for oral dosing but the opposite 
was true after the 6 hour infusion. MPA AUC was not dependent on the rate of infusion, but declined 
by approximately one-third (22–35%)  during transition from IV to oral dosing. Urinary excretion of 
MPA ranged between 0.424 and 2.87% and values were similar for the 3 different regimens. 
The  MPAG  Cmax  values  after  IV  infusion  were  similar  for  the  80  minute  and  3  hour  infusion,  but 
 appears to decrease over the 7 days of IV dosing and 
somewhat lower after 6 hours.  MPAG AUC
was  similar  among  patients  during  the  transition  from  IV  to  oral  dosing.  These  data  show  that  both 
 and Cmax 
AUC
increasing 2.9 and 2.7-fold from day 14 to ≥9 months (Table 5). 
 and the Cmax for MPA tend to rise as oral MMF therapy continues, with the AUC
0-12
0-12
0-12
Table 5: Summary of plasma MPA pharmacokinetic parameters for patients receiving oral 
MMF dose adjusted to 2g bd (MYCS2378) 
Pharmacokinetic Parameter 
Timepoint 
AUC
0-12
  (µg•h/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
Study MYCS2646 
Day 14 
Month 3 
≥9 Months 
Day 14 
Month 3 
≥9 Months 
N 
37 
31 
10 
38 
31 
11 
Mean±SD 
28.7 ±11.5 
62.3  ±24.6 
82.5 ±33.6 
9.64  ±6.31 
22.6  ±12.4 
25.6 ±8.48 
This is the pivotal clinical efficacy study supporting this application. For details of study design see 
the Clinical efficacy section of this report. From a total of 277 patients treated with MMF, 22 patients 
participated  in  12-hour  pharmacokinetic  assessments  with  22  pharmacokinetic  profiles  collected  on 
the last morning of IV MMF (day 5–14 post-transplant), 21 after the first oral dose and 14 at 6 months 
posttransplantation.  All 22 patients received 1g IV dose, 20 patients were given 1.5 g of MMF and  
1  patient  1.0  g  as  their  first  oral  dose  and  at  6  months,  6  patients  were  on  1.5  g bd  of  MMF  and  
8 patients were receiving doses ranging between 0.25 and 1.0 g bd. 
In  this  study,  comparison  between  the  last  day  of  IV  MMF  dosing  and  the  first  day  of  oral  MMF 
 for the 1 g bd IV dose was similar to that for the 1.5 g bd 
dosing showed that the mean MPA AUC
oral dose. After 6 months of oral dosing, there was approximately a 1.6-fold (non dose adjusted data) 
0-12
19/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
and a 2-fold (dose adjusted data) increase in MPA AUC
A similar trend was observed for MPAG (Table 6).  
0-12
 compared to the first day of oral dosing.   
Table  6.  Pharmacokinetic parameters   by  treatment regimen for patients  receiving oral doses 
adjusted to 1.5 g (MYCS2646) 
Treatment Regimen 
Parameter  N 
Mean (SD) 
Cmax  
(µg/ml) 
Tmax 
(h) 
AUC
0-12
(µg•h/ml) 
IV  infusion  1.0 g  bd,  last 
day of IV dosing 
Oral 1.5 g bd,ª first day of 
oral dosing 
MPA 
MPAG 
MPA 
MPAG 
Oral 1.5 g bd,ª month 6 
MPA 
MPAG 
ª  Dose adjusted 
22 
22 
21 
21 
14 
14 
17.0 ± 12.7 
1.50 ± 0.517 
34.0 ± 17.4 
70.7 ± 36.0 
2.38 ± 0.584 
616 ± 407 
13.2 ± 6.64 
1.13 ± 0.430 
31.0 ±14.3 
90.9 ± 45.1 
2.36 ± 0.991 
809 ± 485 
29.3 ± 17.2 
1.07 ± 0.60 
60.6 ± 18.4 
109 ± 37.2 
2.74 ± 1.37 
940 ± 379 
Conclusions on the pharmacokinetic studies 
The data from several studies provides re-assurance that in the short term the pharmacokinetic profiles 
of  MPA  and  MPAG  following  both  oral  and  IV  MMF  are  appropriate  for  patients  following  liver 
transplant and that transfer from IV to oral therapy in the post-operative period is unlikely to result in 
any significant change in immunosuppressive activity. Data from studies ICM 1812 and 1813 indicate 
that even during refractory rejection episodes where liver function may be impaired, there is no greater 
risk of higher concentration of MPA and MPAG than in similar patients following renal transplant. 
,  following  1.5  g bd  of  oral  MMF  is  somewhat 
In  the  early  post-operative  oral  period  MPA  AUC
0-12
lower  in  liver  recipients  than  in  post-renal  and  post-cardiac  transplant  patients.  However,  for  all  the 
  and  the  Cmax  for  MPA  tend  to  rise  as  therapy  continues  but  this  increase  is 
indications  the  AUC
greatest following liver transplant. The clinical expert report states that further rises beyond 6 months 
are unlikely to occur, but this statement is based on the result from only 10 patients. 
0-12
Some  patients  experience  a  degree  of  liver  failure  or  dysfunction  and  it  may  not  be  appropriate  for 
them  to  receive  the  proposed  MMF  dose.  The  proposed  daily  dose  of  MMF  in  the  immediate  post-
operative  period  is  1  g  bd  for  IV  and  1.5  g  bd  for  oral  administration.  These  doses  were  based  on 
comparison  with  pharmacokinetic  values  (particularly  AUC0-12) 
types.  
In  the  immediate  post-operative  period  (up  to  11days),  the  mean  AUC0-12  for  hepatic  patients  was  
29.2 µg •hr/ml and 27.2 µg •hr/ml for renal patients. 
transplant 
in  other 
During the first 15 days after a liver transplant, some patients had external drainage of bile (though a 
T-tube)  which  would  reduce  the  entero-hepatic  circulation  of  MPAG  and  thus  reduce  the  AUCs  of 
MPA. As between 16% and 24% of the administered MMF is excreted as MPAG via the T-tube, this 
proportion would not be available for re-circulation, resulting in reduced bioavailability of the active 
compound. 
However, in the pivotal study, patients who had external biliary drainage and/or post-operative hepatic 
impairment received the same MMF dose schedule as other patients and there are no data to indicate 
that their clinical outcome was any different from the whole patient population, although this was not 
a pre-determined sub-group analysis. 
PK/PD relationship 
There  are  no  studies  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  the  PK/PD  relationship  of  MMF  following 
hepatic transplant. The MAH has provided some extrapolations from data on 99 patients in the pivotal 
study MYCS 2646. It is concluded that there is no evidence of a PK/PD relationship between the AUC 
20/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
of MPA and biopsy proven rejection (BPR) after liver transplant. In addition, it is stated that there is 
no evidence of a relationship between MPA AUC and the occurrence of adverse reactions commonly 
associated  with  MMF  (diarrhoea,  nausea,  vomiting  and  leucopenia).  However,  in  the  hepatic 
transplant  patients only one MPA AUC was obtained for each patient and the  patient numbers were 
small.  
These  data  contrast  with  the  experience  in  renal  transplant  patients  where  there  is  a  strong  inverse 
correlation  between  the  plasma  AUC  of  MPA  and  the  probability  of  acute  rejection.  However,  in 
cardiac transplant patients no such relationship was established, probably because of the inadequacy of 
the biopsy findings as a marker of cardiac rejection. 
It would be of value to have a firmly established PK/PD relationship as it would assist the clinician in 
managing  possible  rejection  episodes,  however,  the clinical  data  show  that  patients  can  be  managed 
satisfactorily in the absence of an established PK/PD relationship.  
Dosing considerations in the late post-operative period 
At 6 months following hepatic transplant, the 3g/day dose of MMF gives MPA AUCs that are 1.6 to 
2-fold  higher  than  those  from  patients  given  2g/day  post-renal  transplant.  Comparative  data  show  a 
mean MPA AUC0-12 of 53.5µg •hr/ml for renal patients at 9 months and 52.5µg •hr/ml at months 6 to 
beyond 9 months for post-hepatic graft patients.  The pivotal study allowed dose adjustment based on 
clinical judgment and during the first 6 months post-transplant, the median dose was 2.5g/day and was 
2.4g/day during the first 12 months post-transplant. These MMF doses gave satisfactory efficacy when 
compared to AZA.  Because of the serious consequences of rejection, it is important that under-dosing 
does  not  occur,  but  prevention  of  under-dosing  should  not  be  at  the  expense  of  a  greater  than 
necessary  frequency  of  adverse  events.  The  MAH  have  provided  data  on  the  frequencies  of 
leucopenia, nausea and vomiting over time (up to 6 months) and although no formal analyses can be 
made, there was no evidence suggesting that the MMF dose was higher in patients developing these 
types of adverse events. In conclusion, there are no safety or efficacy data indicating that the dose of 
MMF proposed in the late post-operative period needs to be revised because of the rise in the  mean 
MPA  AUC0-12  in  the  first  6  to  9  months  after  a  hepatic  transplant.    In  addition,  the  SPC  states  that 
treatment with CellCept should be carried out by appropriately qualified transplant specialists who, in 
the  clinical  situation,  would  determine  the  most  appropriate  doses  of  CellCept  in  conjunction  with 
other immunosuppressant agents depending on the patient’s clinical condition. 
Potential interaction with Tacrolimus 
Tacrolimus is currently authorised for primary immunosuppression in hepatic transplant recipients and 
for allograft rejection resistant to conventional immunosuppressant regimens. As the concurrent use of 
the  two  products  is  not  contra-indicated,  they  will  sometimes  be  used  together,  and  it  is  therefore 
important  that  the  prescriber  is  informed  of  any  pharmacokinetic  interactions  that  may  have  clinical 
relevance. 
One  specific  study  (MYCS  063)  has  been  submitted  to  support  the  proposal  to  add  information  on 
concurrent  use  of  MMF  and  tacrolimus  in  post-hepatic  transplant  patients.  The  open  multiple  dose 
cross-over  study  was  designed  to  assess  the  effect  of  oral  MMF  (1.5g  bid  for  7  days)  on 
pharmacokinetics  of  oral  tacrolimus  (at  a  normal  dose  of  2mg  bid)  in  12  patients  considered  stable  
(6 months or more) after a hepatic transplant. 
Tacrolimus  and  its  major  metabolite  (13  de-methylated  tacrolimus  -  M1)  exhibited  substantial 
variability in their pharmacokinetic parameters.  However, the Cmax for tacrolimus was similar when 
 increased by approximately 15% when co-
used alone and in combination with MMF, and its AUC
administered  with  MMF  compared  to  tacrolimus  alone.  Its  Tmax  decreased  about  50%  however,  this 
difference  was  shown  to  be  due  to  an  artefact  related  to  the  computation  methodology.  When 
recalculated,  in  view  of  the  number  of  patients  that  had  different  morning  and  afternoon  doses  of 
tacrolimus, Tmax values were similar when comparing co-administration with MMF versus tacrolimus 
alone.  For  M1,  the  Cmax,  Tmax  and  AUC
  all  decreased  when  tacrolimus  was  given  with  MMF.  
Very  little  data  are  available  on  the  metabolites  of  MMF  in  post-hepatic  patients  treated 
concurrently with tacrolimus. 
0-24
0-24
In study MYCS 063, MMF was not given alone so pooled data from study MYCS 2378 and 2646 have 
been  submitted  for  9  patients  at  the  ≥6  month  post-transplant  time  point.    This  cross-over  study 
21/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
showed  that  the  MPA  Cmax  was  the  same  with  or  without  tacrolimus,  whilst  MPA  AUC
approximately  13%  higher  with  tacrolimus.  MPAG  Cmax,  Tmax  &  AUC
tacrolimus. 
  was 
  were  all  lower  with 
0-12
0-12
Although the dose of tacrolimus used in study MYCS 063 was lower than that recommended (4 versus 
7-14  mg/day),  it  reflects  the  dose  that  would  be  used  in  clinical  practice  in  stable  patients  in 
conjunction  with  another  immunosuppressant  such  as  MMF.  In  addition,  in  the  clinical  situation, 
tacrolimus concentrations would be monitored to ensure adequate dosing. 
Two patients had markedly low tacrolimus AUC and Cmax whereas one patient had relatively high Cmax. 
However, There appears to be no satisfactory explanation for these findings as each of the patients had 
a  normal  physical  examination  and  their  laboratory  and  biochemical  profiles  and  concomitant 
medication  were  the  same  throughout  the  study.  The  tacrolimus  product  information  recommends 
monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels and these values would be taken into account with the patient’s 
condition when making dose changes.  Therefore, in the clinical situation, patients are not likely to be 
at undue risk.  
In study MYCS 063, there was a trend towards an MMF-induced increase in the AUC of tacrolimus 
(15%),  however  it  was  considered  that  this  is  not  a  real  effect  of  MMF  on  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters of tacrolimus because 15% is within usual pharmacokinetic fluctuations, the study (MYCS 
063)  has  many  potential  biases  and  because  the  15%  difference  is  negligible  compared  with  the 
potential  increase  in  immunosuppressant  effect  when  MMF  and  tacrolimus  are  used  concurrently; 
long-term safety and efficacy studies are required 
Study MYCS 063 is  not an  ideal study  and there  are  methodological flaws. However, it was  a  pilot 
study and any deficiencies need to be considered in the light of the proposed addition to the SPC that 
states  that  the  pharmacokinetic  data  on  concurrent  use  of  tacrolimus  and  CellCept  are  very  limited. 
Additionally,  the  inclusion  of  the  study  findings  (possible  increase  in  tacrolimus  AUC)  in  the 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction section of the SPC will re-
enforce the importance of measuring tacrolimus levels if the clinician considers that the combination 
of MMF and tacrolimus is required.  
In conclusion, there are very limited pharmacokinetic data available and in spite of all the limitations 
of the study there is an indication that the AUC of tacrolimus may be increased if used in conjunction 
with MMF after a liver transplant. This information has been included in the SPC to make physicians 
aware of the importance of monitoring tacrolimus concentrations. 
Potential interactions with other medication 
Following liver transplant, the potential for drug-drug interactions may increase. Twelve (12) products 
were taken by patients in the post-liver transplant study (MYCS 2646) that were not used concurrently 
with  MMF  in  the  study  in  cardiac  transplant  patients.  However,  no  new  class  of  drug  was  taken  in 
study MYCS 2646 and the adverse events profile between the 2 groups was largely similar. 
There was no evidence from study MYCS 2646 that there are drugs given to a patient following a liver 
transplant  that  are  likely  to  cause  a  drug-drug  interaction  with  MMF  that  is  not  already  known  and 
clinically relevant interactions with drugs commonly used in conjunction with CellCept are unlikely to 
occur, particularly in the immediate post-operative period. 
Clinical efficacy (Hepatic transplant) 
The  MAH  has  supplied  one  pivotal  study  (MYCS  2646)  and  9  uncontrolled  supportive  studies  that 
include patients having hepatic transplants. However, 2 of these supportive studies are not complete 
and  therefore  have  not  been  analysed.  Of  the  remainder,  3  are  pharmacokinetic  studies  and  the 
remainder provide a limited or negligible contribution to the efficacy analysis. 
Main hepatic transplant study (Study MYCS2646) 
This was a randomised double-blind multi-centre study in patients receiving their first liver transplant 
and  compared  the  efficacy  of  IV  MMF  followed  by  oral  MMF  plus  cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids 
versus IV AZA followed by oral AZA plus cyclosporin and corticosteroids 
22/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
Study  MYCS  2646  is  completed  and  report  has  been  submitted  by  MAH.  This  report  submitted 
presents analyses of the two co-primary end-points and the secondary end-points for the blinded phase 
of the study (first year of a 3-year study). 
Patients with hepatitis B and liver cancer were not eligible for the study because the management of 
these patients changes rapidly and treatment may affect transplant outcomes. 
The primary objectives of the study were:  
• 
• 
Rejection  at  6  months:  To  determine  whether  MMF  is  superior  to  AZA  in  reducing  the 
proportion of patients with one or more episode of biopsy proven and treated rejection or graft 
loss in the first 6 months post-transplant; and 
Graft  loss  at  12  months:  To  determine  whether  MMF  is  non-inferior  to  AZA  in  reducing  the 
proportion of patients with graft loss in the first 12 months post-transplant. 
Although, at the time of the application, there did not appear to be a single regimen for use in liver 
transplant  recipients,  AZA  is  a  well-recognised  treatment  used  in  combination  with  corticosteroids 
and/or  other  immunosuppressants  to  enhance  the  survival  of  organ  transplants.    Therefore  it  was 
reasonable  to  have  superiority  defined  for  one  primary  efficacy  variable  and  non-inferiority  for 
another. 
Liver biopsies taken to determine acute rejection were reviewed by both a local pathologist (who was 
aware of the patient’s clinical condition) and a central reviewer (who was not). The interpretation of 
the local pathologist was used in the decision to treat the patient and the study was powered based on 
the assumed rejection rates as assessed by local pathologists. The data from the central review were 
prospectively  established  as  supporting  data  with  their  main  purpose  to  ensure  that  there  was 
reasonable  agreement  in  assessing  rejection  by  biopsy.  Graft  loss  was  defined  as  death  or  re-
transplant. 
The primary rejection endpoint was modified once during the study when all patients had reached at 
least 6 months post-transplant (i.e. in the blinded phase of the study). The originally defined rejection 
endpoint  included  biochemical  abnormalities  (abnormal  liver  function  tests)  suggestive  of  rejection 
and this was removed. The reason was that it was considered that rejection was a clinical rather than a 
biochemical decision. 
There  were  10  secondary  objectives  relating  to  the  first  12  months  of  the  study  (blinded  phase).  
The majority (7) of these relate to rejection and death/re-transplant and can be considered to be sub-
sets  of  the  two  co-primary  objectives.  Two  of  these  variables  relate  to  time  from  transplant  to 
biopsy-proven  and  treated  rejection,  and  time  to  graft  loss.  The  final  secondary  objective  was  the 
maintenance dose of corticosteroids required. 
In  addition  PK  parameters  were  measured  and  the  evaluation  of  safety  included  collecting  data  on 
adverse events, medically serious adverse events, opportunistic infections and malignancies. 
Results 
The planned enrollment was 550 patients and a total of 565 patients (287 and 278 patients randomised 
to AZA and MMF respectively) were entered into the study. The transplant groups were balanced for 
demographics  and  other  characteristics  determined  at  study  entry.  The  results  presented    both  the 
co-primary  efficacy  variables  and  the  majority  of  the  secondary  variables  related  to  the  blinded  
(first year) phase of the study. 
There was a very high withdrawal rate from the study (54% from the MMF arm; 53.7% from the AZA 
arm) with the greatest withdrawal in the first month (approximately 20% of all patients).  Although the 
withdrawal rate was similar between the groups, in the pivotal study of MMF and AZA in post-cardiac 
transplant  patients  withdrawals  were  approximately  half  that  occurring  in  study  MYCS  2646.  
The mean cyclosporin concentrations were higher in patients who were prematurely withdrawn in both 
treatment groups and  at all time  points  (day  7  to  12  months),  compared with  patients who  were  not 
withdrawn.  However, the variability of the results limits the value of these findings and the data do 
not indicate a direct relationship between the trough cyclosporin concentrations and withdrawal from 
the  study.  Thus,  there  appears  to  be  no  definitive  reason  for  the  difference  in  withdrawal  rates.  
It is important to note, however, that withdrawal rates were similar across treatment arms and this is 
considered to be the most relevant comparison.  
23/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
Patients were randomised to the MMF group and received 1g IV of MMF in a 2 hour transfusion bid 
starting within 24 hours of transplant continuing for a minimum of 4 days to a maximum of 14 days.  
Once  oral  medication  could  be  tolerated,  patients  switched  to  oral  MMF  1.5g bid.  The  AZA  group 
received AZA once a day at a dose, between 1 and 2mg/kg/day, selected by the investigators with the 
first dose within 24 hours of transplant. Patients were initiated on either oral or IV AZA;, IV AZA was 
continued  until  oral  medication  was  tolerated  but  unlike  MMF  there  was  no  minimum  duration.  
The doses of cyclosporin and corticosteroids were determined by the usual practice of the respective 
centre. Of the 565 patients entered, 564 patients received study drug. The dose of oral MMF and AZA 
could be reduced if adverse events occurred. 
Approximately  1/3rd  of  the  patients  in  the  AZA  group  received  less  than  4  days  IV  treatment.  
There are no data on the equivalence between IV and oral MMF during the  first 4 post-transplant days 
for MMF whereas there is a reasonable degree of equivalence between the proposed IV dose (1g bd) 
and the oral dose (1.5g bd) after 4-10 days of IV MMF. Therefore a statement was included in the SPC 
recommending that after liver transplantation patients will remain on IV CellCept for 4 days with oral 
therapy initiated as soon as the patient can tolerate oral medication (see SPC for the IV formulation, 
section 4.2, Posology and method of administration). 
Rejection at 6 months 
In the first 6 months post-transplant the proportion of first biopsy proven and treated rejection or graft 
loss  (either  in  study  or  after  termination)  was  38.1%  for  the  MMF  group  and  47.7%  for  the  AZA 
group (Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel adjusted for centre P=0.0196; RR MMF/AZA=0.80). These results 
with  the  other  secondary  rejection  endpoints  are  shown  in  Table  7.  All  the  rejection  end-points 
included patients experiencing graft loss; graft loss without rejection occurred in 8.6% (23) patients on 
MMF and 9.4% (27) patients on AZA.  Approximately 60% of graft loss occurred in the first 3 months 
post-transplant. 
The  findings  of  the  study  are  somewhat  confounded  when  considering    acute  rejection  endpoints. 
When judged by the local pathologists, who were aware of the patients clinical condition, MMF was 
shown  to  be  statistically  significantly  superior  (p=0.02)  to  AZA  although  the  size  of  the  additional 
benefit was not great (by 6 months 48% of the patients on AZA and 38% on MMF had acute rejection 
episodes). This difference in the acute rejection end-point had narrowed by 12 months. 
Acute rejection episodes when the biopsies were read centrally were no longer statistically significant 
(p=0.2) when compared with the on-site reading of biopsies despite a positive trend in favour of the 
MMF  group.    When  comparing  the  findings  of  the  two  groups  of  pathologists,  there  was  86% 
concordance  (κ  =  0.789)  and  in  75  out  of  the  total  78  cases  showing  disagreement,  the  discordance 
resulted  from  the  local  pathologist  indicating  rejection  whilst  the  central  reviewer  did  not.  
It is considered that the local review most closely reflects the post-marketing use of the product (i.e., a 
pathologist  aware  of  the  patient’s  clinical  condition  when  reviewing  the  biopsy).  Therefore  more 
emphasis  is  normally  given  to  the  local  analysis,  since  this  determines  the  patient's  further  medical 
management. 
The  6  month  data  regarding  the  cumulative  incidence  of  biopsy-proven  and  treated  rejection, 
excluding  graft  loss,  was  40.0%  for  AZA  and  31.0%  for  MMF.  The  Kaplan-Meier  estimates  show 
separation of the curves occurring from before 1 month. These data show that when patients with graft 
loss  are  excluded  the  findings  are  in  line  with  the  primary  rejection  variables  already  considered 
acceptable in the pivotal study. 
When  event-free  survival  was  compared  between  both  treatment  groups  for  this  endpoint,  
the difference was no longer statistically significant at the 5% level (logrank p=0.0593). However, this 
p-value was  considered to be sufficiently supportive of  a treatment difference, and  that  the  apparent 
inconsistency with the primary analysis had no important implications. 
Graft loss at 12 months 
Graft losses were primarily deaths and the overall rate of re-transplantation during the first 12 months 
was  4.4%.  As  far  as  graft  loss  and  survival  are  concerned,  events  were  observed  in  39/278  versus 
42/287 patients for MMF versus AZA, respectively and non-inferiority of MMF was demonstrated to 
a pre-defined degree (the lower acceptable limit for the difference was -10% for the difference in graft 
loss rates). The observed difference was +0.45% with a lower limit of - 5.1%, providing no evidence 
of inferiority of MMF  in this respect  with  a suitable degree of  precision. The time to graft  loss was 
24/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
also similar between the 2 groups. In the hepatic study the death rates were similar for both the MMF 
and  AZA  groups  (10.4%  and  12.9%  respectively)  whereas  in  the  cardiac  study  the  rates  were  6.2% 
and 11.4% respectively. However, there are no major differences between the 2 groups in the pivotal 
study regardless of the differing death rates in the post-cardiac transplant study. 
Additional efficacy analyses 
In terms of additional immunosuppression required at 6 months and 12 months, there was a tendency 
for additional corticosteroids (36.7%  versus 46.7% and 39.2%  versus 49.1%, for MMF versus AZA 
at 6 and 12 months respectively) and for OKT3 (3.6% versus 8.0% and 4.0%  versus 8.0%, for MMF 
versus AZA at 6 and 12 months respectively) to be required more frequently in the AZA group than in 
the MMF group.  ATG was infrequently used in either group. 
Various  subgroup  analyses  of  the  primary  efficacy  variables    were  carried  out.    Graft  loss  by  age, 
racial  sub-group,  gender  or  presence  of  hepatitis  C  virus,  showed  no  clinically  relevant  differences 
compared  to  the  total  study  population.    Rejection  tended  to  decrease  with  age  and  was  higher  in 
women,  however,  this  is  a  pattern  seen  with  other  transplant  patients  regardless  of  type  of 
immunosuppression used. 
The  results  based  on  the  efficacy  endpoints  broken  down  by  the  proportion  of  deaths  and  of  re-
transplants, and the level  of severity and the outcome of biopsy-confirmed treated rejections seen  in 
each  treatment  group  were  provided.  The  incidence  of  first  and  second  rejection  episodes  was 
provided: a total of 7.3% of AZA patients and 5.4% of MMF patients experienced a second rejection 
episode  in  the  first  12  months  post-transplant.  These  additional  analyses  did  not  alter  the  overall 
evidence of efficacy from study MYCS 2646. 
The  incidence  of  rejection  was  lower  than  expected,  particularly  in  the  AZA  group,  although  the 
incidence of rejection in the pivotal study did not appear to differ from that in other liver transplant 
studies.  From  the  data  provided  it  appears  that  rejection  episodes  were  not  directly  related  to 
cyclosporin trough levels. The mean levels over time (day 7 to 6 months) showed no consistent pattern 
between the treatment groups and rejection status.   
The  addition  of  selected  results  from  the  pivotal  study  to  the  SPC  is  not  essential  for  the  safe  and 
effective use of the product in the proposed indication and as with any data taken out of context may 
not be helpful to prescribers. The current section 5.1 is in line with the European guidelines. 
Additional  information  from  the  MAH  stated  that  some  discrepancies  had  been  noted  at  one  centre.  
In summary, 3 patients who did not have chronic hepatitis B or positive hepatitis B antigens recorded 
on the case report form were marked as having positive hepatitis B status on the patient information 
sheet.  In  addition,  1  positive  and  3  negative  biopsy  findings  were  not  included  in  the  study  report.  
A document providing the background to the findings with a summary of the discrepancies identified 
and an erratum to study MYCS 2646 was subsequently provided.  
The  correction  of  the  identified  discrepancies  resulted  in  a  few  minor  changes  that  had  no  practical 
consequences. Primary end-points were not involved. Only one change to a secondary end-point was 
involved and this change had no impact on statistical significance and minimal impact on estimates. 
Therefore,  the  identified  discrepancies  did  not  affect  the  interpretation  of  the  study.  There  were  no 
additional  concerns  about  the  quality  of  the  data  of  this  centre  or  the  study  and  overall,  the  MAH 
undetook appropriate remedial action. 
25/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
Table 7.  Rejection Endpoints during the first 6 months (MYCS2646) 
AZA 
MMF 
Relative Risk 
P-value 
(N = 287) 
(N = 278) 
(MMF/AZA) 
137 (47.7%) 
106 (38.1%) 
0.80 
0.02 
Primary endpoint* 
Biopsy-proven  and  treated  rejection  or 
graft loss 
Secondary endpoints* 
Biopsy-proven rejection 
Treated rejection 
Biopsy-proven  and  treated  rejection  with 
biochemical  abnormalities  suggestive  of 
rejection 
Biopsy-proven rejection with biochemical 
abnormalities suggestive of rejection 
rejection  with 
Treated 
abnormalities suggestive of rejection 
biochemical 
147 (51.2%) 
117 (42.1%) 
0.82 
152 (53.0%) 
123 (44.2%) 
0.84 
136 (47.4%) 
103 (37.1%) 
0.78 
142 (49.5%) 
112 (40.3%) 
0.81 
151 (52.6%) 
120 (43.2%) 
0.82 
0.03 
0.04 
0.01 
0.02 
0.02 
0.09 
OKT3- or ATG-treated rejection 
57 (19.9%) 
40 (14.4%) 
0.73 
*Includes Events Post Study Withdrawal 
Clinical safety (Hepatic transplant) 
Because  of  the  discrepancy  in  study  withdrawals  (mainly  due  to  adverse  events),  comparisons  were 
made  where  relevant,  with  study  MYCS  1864  which  was  similar  to  MYCS  2646  in  oral  dose  and 
patient  numbers  but  was  carried  out  in  cardiac  transplant  patients.    IV  MMF  was  not  used  in  the 
cardiac  transplant  study  and  also  in  study  MYCS  1864  some  patients  had  been  followed  up  for  
2.5 years whereas most patients in the liver transplant study had only been followed up for 18 months. 
Adverse events, serious adverse events and deaths 
The following 5 events occurred with a >5% frequency in the MMF group (versus AZA) – abdominal 
pain, pain (not further specified), increased creatinine, oedema and constipation. There are no major 
differences  between  the  pattern  and  type  adverse  events  occurring  with  IV  MMF  and  IV  AZA.   
The high overall frequency (97.8% for MMF; 91.3% for AZA) is almost certainly due to the fact they 
were collected in the immediate post-operative period and consequently are adverse events rather than 
adverse drug reactions.  No comparisons between the adverse event profile of IV and oral MMF and 
AZA  were  provided,  however  because  of  the  differences  in  base-line  (ie  patients’  condition, 
concurrent medication etc) this is unlikely to be of significant relevance. 
There were concerns as the increases in AUC and Cmax of MPA (the active  moiety of MMF) during 
long-term use were greater and extended for longer after hepatic transplant than following cardiac and 
renal transplant with a consequent increased risk of toxicity. 
 of the active 
Although these data are not conclusive, there is no direct evidence that the rising AUC
metabolite  (MPA)  over  the  first  6-9  months  post-transplant  results  in  an  increased  frequency  of 
adverse events such as leucopenia and infections. The data provided show that approximately a quarter 
of  the  first  reports  of  leucopenia  associated  with  MMF  occur  in  the  first  month  post  transplant  and 
approximately 90% are reported in the first 6 months with similar values shown for sepsis. In addition, 
the  pattern  of  cumulative  reports  is  similar  for  AZA.    The  data  on  malignancies  is  not  clear  cut  but 
does not indicate a great increase in frequency with 1.5g bid compared with 1g bid. 
0-12
The  overall  frequency  of  leucopenia  was  45.8%  in  the  MMF  group  and  39.0%  in  the  AZA  group. 
However,  this  did  not  appear  to  lead  to  increased  adverse  sequelae.    In  addition,  the  CellCept  SPC 
recommends  regular  blood  count  monitoring  and  provides  advice  on  action  that  should  be  taken  if 
leucopenia develops. 
26/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The frequency of severe neutropenia was higher with MMF than with AZA (3.6% vs 0.7%) as was the 
frequency of herpes virus infection (10.1% vs 5.9%). Although there are differences in the frequencies 
of specific post-transplant infections between the MMF and AZA groups, there is no direct evidence 
that MMF increases the risk of major infections when compared with AZA or produces a significant 
risk for patients. 
The death rate on MMF which was less than for AZA following cardiac transplant was equivalent to 
AZA  in  the  pivotal  study  supporting  this  application.  There  were  a  total  of  75  deaths  
(from  565  patients)  at  any  time  post-transplant  in  study  MYCS  2646.  Overall  the  death  rate  was 
similar between the two treatment groups (35, 12.6% MMF versus 40, 13.9% AZA) and the causes of 
death are shown in Table 8. The death rate 1 year post-transplant in the cardiac study (MYCS 1864) 
was 11.4% (33/289) for MMF and 6.2% (18/289) for the AZA group. 
The most frequent cause of death was infection/sepsis with the next most frequent cause “other” which 
includes  primary  graft  failure  and  multi-organ  failure.  During  the  12  months  post-transplant,  there 
were  66  on  study  and  post-termination  deaths  (29,  10.5%  from  MMF  group  versus  37,  12.9%  from 
AZA  group)  with  the  primary  cause  of  death  again  due  to  infection/sepsis.    Also  at  12  months,  
24  patients died  on study and 7 within  15  days of  study termination;  of these 31  patients 13 (4.7%) 
were in the MMF group 18 (6.3%) in the AZA group. 
Table 8.  Cause of death at anytime post-transplant (including deaths post-study withdrawal) 
AZA (1-2mg/kg/day) 
MMF (1.5g bd) 
No. of patients 
Total deaths 
Cardiovascular event 
Cancer 
Infection/sepsis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Cerebro-vascular event 
Graft rejection 
Other 
(N = 287) 
287 
40 (13.9%) 
3 (1.0%) 
2 (0.7%) 
21 (7.3%) 
2  (0.7%) 
2 (0.7%) 
1 (0.3%) 
9 (3.1%) 
(N = 278) 
35 (12.6%) 
6 (2.2%) 
1 (0.4%) 
15 (5.4%) 
0 
1 (0.4%) 
0 
12 (4.3%) 
Adverse events leading to withdrawal 
In study MYCS 2646, the main reasons for withdrawal were related to safety, and the proportion of 
withdrawals was high compared with an equivalent study in post-cardiac transplant patients. A similar 
number of patients were withdrawn from each group (94, 33.9% on MMF versus 95, 33.1% on AZA) 
due  to  adverse  events,  intercurrent  illness  or  laboratory  abnormalities  during  the  first  12  months  of 
treatment.  Most of the adverse events occurred with similar frequency between the groups. Table  9 
shows the adverse events in which there was a 2% or more difference between the groups. 
27/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9.  Adverse events leading to withdrawal ≥2% difference across treatment arms (study 
MYCS2646) 
Adverse event 
Leucopenia 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain 
Sepsis 
AZA 
(N = 287) 
7.3% 
1.4% 
0.3% 
3.8% 
MMF 
(N = 277) 
10.1% 
4.3% 
2.5% 
1.8% 
In  the  cardiac  transplant  study  (MYCS1864)  events  lead  to  premature  discontinuation  due  to  an 
adverse event, intercurrent illness or laboratory abnormality was 14.5% in the MMF group and 15.6% 
in the AZA group.  
Malignancies 
that 
the  risk  of  developing  a  malignancy  (a 
The  MAH  reported 
long-term  effect  of 
immunosuppression) is not unduly increased by doses of MMF of either 2g or 3g daily. From study 
MYC2646, 4.2% of patients on AZA and 3.2% of patients on MMF had developed malignancies by 1 
year post-transplant. The absolute numbers are too small to determine any pattern of specific tumours 
and  the  duration  of  immunosuppression  too  short  to  provide  a  definitive  reporting  rate  for 
malignancies. Similar malignancy rates were noted in MYCS 1864 (post-cardiac transplant study). 
Medically serious events 
During  the  first  12  months  of  the  study  of  liver  transplant  patients,  severe  neutropenia  was 
considerably  more  frequent  (approximately  5-fold)  in  the  MMF  group  whereas  severe  hepatitis  and 
severe thrombocytopenia occurred more often in the AZA group (Table 10). 
Table 10.  Medically serious events (study MYCS 2646) 
Severe neutropenia 
Severe thrombocytopenia  
Severe hepatitis 
GI perforation/GI bleed 
AZA 
(N = 287) 
2 (0.7%) 
36 (12.5%) 
58 (20.2%) 
15 (6.2%) 
MMF 
(N = 277) 
10 (3.6%) 
19 (6.9%) 
44 (15.9%) 
19 (6.8%) 
Opportunistic infections 
The frequency of opportunistic infections was similar between the groups (MMF, 43.2% versus AZA, 
45.5%).  The most common infections are shown in Table 11. 
Table 11.  Most common infections (study MYCS 2646) 
Candida (mucocutaneous) 
CMV vitraemia/syndrome 
Herpes simplex 
CMV tissue invasion 
MMF 
(N = 277) 
18.4% 
14.1% 
10.1% 
5.8% 
AZA 
(N = 287) 
17.4% 
12.2% 
5.9% 
8.0% 
28/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical aspects and benefit/risk assessment  (Hepatic transplant) 
CellCept  has  proven  evidence  of  efficacy  in  preventing  acute  transplant  rejection  after  renal  and 
cardiac transplants, so its immunosuppressive activity would be expected to extend to liver transplant 
recipients. The pivotal study MYCS 2646 showed CellCept to be superior (p=0.02) to AZA (which is 
known  to  enhance  graft  survival  including  hepatic  transplants)  when  considering  the  primary  end-
point  of  acute  rejection  as  defined  by  local  pathologists.  From  a  statistical  viewpoint,  the  finding  is 
robust  as  it  did  not  depend  critically  on  how  the  end-point  was  defined,  it  was  based  on  a  proper 
intention-to-treat  analysis,  the  pattern  of  withdrawals  was  explored  and  nothing  was  found  to  cast 
doubt on the findings with the protocol amendment having been shown not to influence the outcome.  
There is a negative aspect of the evidence relating to the end-point of acute rejection determined by 
central  review  of  the  biopsies,  as  a  positive  trend  rather  than  superiority  was  shown.    However,  the 
local pathologist who was in possession of clinical as well as biopsy findings, will most closely reflect 
the post-marketing situation in which the product would be used.  In addition, most of the differences 
resulted from the local pathologist indicating rejection and although patients should not be subjected 
to unnecessary immunosuppression, the benefits of treating rejection episodes early in order to prevent 
chronic rejection, graft loss or death may outweigh any additional immunosuppressant burden. 
Concerning  graft  loss  and  survival,  the  non-inferiority  of  MMF  versus  AZA  was  demonstrated.  
The frequency and causes of deaths were similar in the both groups.  
In addition to the statistical issues, clinically there were some concerns about the very high withdrawal 
rate  (over  50%)  in  the  first  12  months  of  the  study.  These  withdrawals  were  mainly  due  to  adverse 
events and were similar in number and type between the two study groups. This rate is approximately 
twice  that  in  a  similar  study  following  heart  transplantation.    This  discrepancy  has  not  been 
satisfactorily  explained,  the  only  major  difference  between  the  two  studies  was  the  use  of  IV  study 
medication  in  the  immediate  post-operative  period  for  the  liver  transplant  recipients  and  the  data 
provided does not permit a direct analysis of adverse events occurring whilst on IV study medication. 
Nevertheless, more importance is given to the comparison across the two randomised treatment arms, 
rather than the comparison with a different study. 
The pharmacokinetic findings provide re-assurance that the profiles of the metabolites of MMF are, in 
the short term, appropriate for patients following liver transplant. In addition, there does not appear to 
be  any  undue  risk  of  reduced  or  increased  immunosuppressive  activity  occurring  when  patients  are 
transferred from IV to oral CellCept.  
In  study  MYCS  2646,  there  were  12  products  taken  by  patients  post-transplant  that  were  not  used 
concurrently with MMF in the cardiac transplant  study. Most  of the drugs taken by the post-hepatic 
transplant patients were those taken in conjunction with MMF in other studies.  No new class of drug 
was  taken  in  study  MYCS  2646  and  the  adverse  events  profile  between  the  2  groups  was  largely 
similar. There is no evidence from study MYCS 2646 that there are drugs given to a patient following 
a liver transplant that are likely to cause a drug-drug interaction with MMF that is not already known. 
For drug-drug interactions only limited data have been provided. With the importance of an effectively 
functioning liver in metabolising drugs additional data providing re-assurance that drugs and classes of 
drugs  commonly  used  in  conjunction  with  CellCept  would  be  useful  in  supporting  this  application. 
Considering  tacrolimus  which,  although  not  specifically  indicated  for  concurrent  use  with  CellCept, 
may be used in high doses in rejection episodes, the relevant study used a dose of tacrolimus that was 
lower  than  that  used  clinically.  The  clinical  relevance  of  the  potential  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
needs to be clearly established. 
The  average  dose  of  tacrolimus  used  in  study  MYC  063  was  4mg/day  which  is  lower  than  the 
currently recommended dose of tacrolimus for adults (7-14mg daily). Although the dose of tacrolimus 
used in study MYCS 063 was less than that recommended in the tacrolimus product information, it is 
likely  to  reflect  clinical  practice  in  stable  patients  in  conjunction  with  another  immunosuppressant 
such as MMF. 
Reassurance that relatively high increases in Cmax and AUC seen with long-term MMF dosing will not 
produce increased frequency of adverse reactions (particularly neutropenia) following liver transplant 
was  provided.  There  were  relatively  high  increases  in  Cmax  and  AUC  with  long-term  MMF  dosing. 
The  volume  of  distribution  (Vd)  was  not  calculated  as  patients  did  not  receive  IV  MMF  long-term. 
Clearance  values  for  MPA  (active  moiety  of  MMF)  and  MPAG  (inactive  metabolite)  have  been 
29/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
provided  for  the  final  IV  and  the  first  oral  doses  of  MMF  (ie  the  change  over  to  oral  dosing  in 
immediate  post-transplant  period),  and  for  the  oral  dose  at  6  months.  For  MPA,  the  mean  clearance 
shows similar values after IV dosing with MMF and at 6 months of oral dosing, whilst clearance on 
the  first  day  of  oral  MMF  was  higher  than  at  the  other  2  time-points.  For  MPAG,  clearance  values 
were similar at all 3 time-points. 
In  isolation,  these  data  have  limited  relevance,  however,  there  would  be  concerns  if  changes  in 
clearance  and  volume  of  distribution  over  time  had  an  adverse  effect  on  safety  or  efficacy of  MMF 
used after  hepatic transplant.  The issue of  the  altered pharmacokinetic  parameters over time and the 
frequency  of  adverse  events  is  addressed  in  detail  in  the  Clinical  safety,  Adverse  events,  serious 
adverse events and deaths section of this report and as the MPA levels rise over time, it would not be 
expected that efficacy would be affected. 
In the cardiac transplant study, the death rate was lower with MMF (versus AZA), whereas equivalent 
death  rates  were  noted  in  the  liver  transplant  study.  Although  the  proportion  of  patients  developing 
adverse  events  when  CellCept  is  used  in  liver  transplant  recipients  was  relatively  high,  the  safety 
profile was basically similar between the patients on MMF and on AZA in the pivotal study. 
In  summary,  overall  the  rates  of  deaths,  withdrawals,  malignancies  and  medically  serious  events  in 
liver  transplant  patients  did  not  differ  between  patients  receiving  MMF  and  AZA,  but,  severe 
neutropenia was considerably more frequent (5-fold increase) in patients on MMF.  This finding needs 
to be balanced against a 1.8-fold increase of severe thrombocytopenia and a 1.3-fold increase of severe 
hepatitis with AZA.  In addition the increased frequency of neutropenia with MMF did not appear to 
be  translated  into  increased  rates  of  infection  and  the  SPC  provides  a  recommended  regimen  for 
monitoring blood counts. 
Clinical pharmacology 
The  clinical  pharmacokinetic  data  submitted  with  this  application  provides  re-assurance  that  in  the 
immediate post-operative period the pharmacokinetic profile of both the active metabolite (MPA) and 
the  inactive  metabolite  (MPAG)  following  both  oral  and  IV  MMF  are  appropriate  for  patients  post-
liver  transplant.  Also,  transfer  from  IV  to  oral  therapy  from  4  days  post-operatively  onwards  is 
unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  change  in  immunosuppressive    efficacy.  However,  data  are  not 
available for the first 4 days post-transplant which is the time when potential liver dysfunction is likely 
to be greatest. Therefore, a recommendation in the SPC states that IV CellCept should continue for the 
first  4  days  following  hepatic  transplant  with  oral  therapy  initiated  as  soon  after  this  as  it  can  be 
tolerated. 
There  are  only  very  limited  data  on  the  concurrent  use  of  tacrolimus  with  CellCept  and  this  is 
adequately  reflected  in  the  SPC.  An  option  would  be  not  to  have  any  information  at  all  in  the  SPC 
relating  to  the  use  of  tacrolimus  and  CellCept  following  hepatic  transplant.    However,  as  there  is 
already information on tacrolimus and CellCept post-renal graft and the drugs are not contra-indicated, 
a clinician may consider that a patient who is in danger of losing his/her graft may require additional 
immunosuppression and needs to use the two drugs concurrently. A statement in the SPC warns the 
prescriber  of  the  lack  of  data  in  post-hepatic  graft  and  indicates  that  the  tacrolimus  AUC  may  be 
increased. 
The  proposed  doses  of  1g  bd  for  IV  CellCept  and  1.5g  bd  for  oral  CellCept  gives  a  satisfactory 
efficacy without undue risk of adverse events in both the immediate and late post-transplant period. 
Clinical efficacy 
On the data from the pivotal study, MMF was shown to be statistically significantly superior (p=0.02) 
to AZA when acute rejection end-points were assessed by local pathologists (but with only a positive 
trend  when  centralised  readings  were  used).  For  graft  loss  and  survival  non-inferiority  of  MMF 
compared to AZA was demonstrated. The new information on data discrepancies from one centre does 
not affect the robustness of the study findings. 
Although  not  specifically  studied,  patients  with  hepatitis  B  and  liver  cancer  will  require 
immunosuppression following liver transplantation, regardless of potentially poorer survival because 
of their underlying condition. It seems appropriate that the results of the pivotal study were not diluted 
by  inclusion  of  these  patients.  However,  in  the  clinical  situation  the  use  of  MMF  is  managed  by 
30/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
transplant  experts,  therefore  it  is  not  unreasonable  that  it  could  be  used,  if  appropriate,  following  a 
hepatic transplant in patients with hepatitis B and liver cancer. 
Clinical Safety  
The safety in the proposed doses and for the proposed indication is acceptable. The MAH provided the 
follow up to study MYCS 2646 in the form of the final study report to the CPMP by 1st quarter 2002. 
The CPMP concluded there are no major differences between treatment groups…  
CPMP Recommendation 
The CPMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  reflected  into  the  Package  Leaflet, 
based on the observations and the appropriate conclusions. 
Paediatric renal transplant programme 
At the time of the application, approximately 650 paediatric renal transplants were performed annually 
in the EU and approximately 550 in the USA.  The regimens currently used in children are similar to 
those  for  adults,  i.e.,  AZA  in  addition  to  cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids,  with  lymphocyte  antibody 
induction therapy (ATG, ALG or OKT3) often added immediately post-transplant. 
Younger children often need higher doses of cyclosporin to maintain adequate blood levels. Following 
renal  transplant,  one-year  graft  survival  rates  in  Europe  are  61-81%  in  children  (versus  75-83%  in 
adults). Acute rejection has been reported to develop in 40-70% of children treated with cyclosporine-
AZA  containing  regimens  with  most  occurring  in  the  first  3  months  post-transplant.  As  with  adults, 
acute rejection is the most important predictor of subsequent chronic rejection in children. 
The causes of end-stage renal failure differ between adults and children, however the only aetiologies 
that  are  considered  to  impact  on  graft  survival  are  focal  glomerulosclerosis,  which  occurs  more 
frequently in children than adults (8% vs 3%) and congenital nephrotic syndrome. Several factors not 
directly  related  to  the  pathogenesis  of  renal  failure  also  affect  graft  loss.  Graft  survival  is  poorer  in 
very young children (< 3 years) and as this often results from vascular thrombosis, it may be due to 
mechanical  factors  resulting  from  placing  a  relatively  large  organ  in  a  small  child.  Children  under  
6 years of age have higher incidence of non-specific cellular immune responsiveness which is likely to 
be  the  reason  they  are  reported  to  experience  more  episodes  of  acute  rejection  than  adults  and 
consequently are often treated with more intense immunosuppression.  
Data  from  two  single-arm  paediatric  post  renal  transplant  studies  were  provided.  The  pivotal  study 
(MYCS  2675)  included  100  paediatric  patients.  An  additional  pharmacokinetic  study  (MYCS  2190) 
included 40 paediatric patients. The age groups used in these studies were 3 months to 6 years, 6 to  
12 years and 12 to 18 years (the cut-off points were selected prior to the circulation of the European 
guidelines).  The  clinical  development  for  paediatric  use  was  based  extensively  on  the  benefit/risk 
profile already established in adults. Comparisons were made with two studies that compared MMF to 
AZA  in  adults,  retrospective  series  of  non-MMF  patients  as  well  as  published  data  and  a 
postmarketing study. 
The  safety  database  consists  of  the  140  paediatric  patients  in  the  2  studies  with  comparisons  made 
with  adult  patients  on  CellCept  following  renal  transplant.  Additionally,  data  on  incidence  of 
malignancies were available from a postmarketing study with 346 MMF-treated patients. 
Because of the limited data in children under the age of 2 years, this age group was excluded by the 
MAH from the scope of this variation. 
Clinical Pharmacology (Paediatric renal transplant) 
Pharmacokinetic data from the two studies in paediatric patients (MYCS 2190 and MYCS 2675) have 
been submitted to support this application. Only a subset of paediatric patients in study MYCS 2675 
had pharmacokinetic parameters measured.  
Rationale for dose selection 
The  rationale  for  dose  selection  based  on  pharmacokinetic  parameters  relied  on  the  assumption  that 
the  metabolism  and  mechanism  of  action  of  MMF  in  paediatric  patients  would  be  similar  to  adults  
(as  is  the course  of graft  rejection).  In  adults, a strong inverse correlation between the  plasma MPA 
31/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
AUC0-12 and the probability of acute rejection has been observed. Data from study MYC 058 (in adult 
patients) were used to select the target MPA AUC0-12 for paediatric patients following a renal graft. 
Adjusting  the  dose  to  1  g  bid  (the  currently  authorised  dose  for  adult  renal  transplant  patients),  the 
mean  of  the  individual  AUC0-12  values  in  study  MYC  058  on  days  3,  7  and  11  post-transplant  was 
27.2 ±11.6 microgramsnhour/ml. In 2 other studies in adults (MYC 1866 and ICM 1753) for the first 
the  mean  AUC0-12  of  MPA  was 
40  days  post-transplant  following  1 g  of  MMF  bid, 
27.3 ± 10.9 microgramsnhour/ml.  Therefore, 
approximately 
of 
27 microgramsnhour/ml  was  selected  as  suitable  for  paediatric  patients  post  renal  transplant.  
Because  of  substantial  inter-subject  variability,  it  was  considered  that  there  would  be  better  dosing 
schedule if body surface area (BSA) were used rather than weight to calculate dose. 
a  mean  AUC0-12 
level 
Paediatric renal transplant study MYCS 2190 
MYCS  2190  was  a  non-randomised  study  designed  to  evaluate  pharmacokinetics,  safety  and 
tolerability  of MMF in  patients aged  between 3  months and  18 years.  The primary objective was  to 
assess  the  pharmacokinetics  in  the  first  year  of  treatment  and  safety  for  the  3  years  of  the  study. 
Paediatric  patients  weighing  at  least  5.4  kg  and  who  were  having  a  single  first  or  second  renal 
transplant (cadaver or living donor) were entered. Patients were stratified into 3 age groups (3 months 
to less than 6 years; 6 years to less than 12 years; 12 years to 18 years). 
Patients were accrued  concurrently across age strata and a total of 40 patients  received  one  or  more 
doses of MMF. The dose levels were 15, 23 or 30 mg/kg of MMF (capsules) bid in combination with 
cyclosporin and corticosteroids. Sample collection was planned on days 1, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14 and 21 and at 
months 3, 6, 9 and 12. For patients who received 23 mg/kg, the mean MPA AUC0-12 was 28.1 (± 11.9) 
microgramsnhour/ml.  Two  patients  had  IV  MMF  (each  a  single  dose).  The  pharmacokinetic  data  at 
months 3-12, consisting of a single trough level of MPA and MPAG, expectedly showed an increase 
in AUC at 3 and 9 months compared with days 7 and 14. 
The  study  was  terminated  early  because  it  was  considered  that  from  the  pharmacokinetic  data 
collected it was possible to make a specific dose recommendation (23 mg/kg bid). This was then used 
in the extension of the study (MYCS 2190v2). 
Because  of  the  substantial  inter-patient  variability  noted  in  study  MYCS  2190,  additional  analyses 
were performed in order to extrapolate MPA AUC0-12 when the MMF dose was calculated using BSA. 
Using linear regression of MPA AUC0-12 versus dose from study MYCS 2190 and adult data, the dose 
of CellCept  of 600  mg/m2 gave a  projected MPA  AUC0-12 of 28.2  microgramsnhour/ml  (the  nearest 
value  to  27.2  microgramsnhour/ml,  selected  as  suitable  for  paediatric  patients  post-renal  transplant). 
By calculating the dose on BSA the coefficient of variation could be reduced by about 10%. 
Paediatric renal transplant study MYCS 2675 
In  this  single-arm  study,  600  mg/m2  bid  up  to  1  g  bid  were  administered  to  paediatric  patients 
following renal transplant.  
From  the  total  patient  population  of  100,  55  had  pharmacokinetic  profiles  for  MPA  and  MPAG 
measured  at  day  7  and  months  3  and  9.  Patients  were  stratified  into  one  of  the  three  defined  age 
groups.  The  study  showed  that  with  a  dose  of  MMF  of  600  mg/m2  (the  currently  proposed  dose), 
AUCs  in  paediatric  patients  of  1-18  years  of  age  in  the  immediate  post-transplant  period  were 
scattered  around  the  (adult)  target  AUC.  The  7  day  values  for  the  3  main  age  categories  varied 
between  26.3  and  33.2  microgramsnhour/ml.  The  late  post-transplant,  AUC0-12  values  show  the  rise 
over time seen in all post-transplant patients (Table 12). 
Table 12.  Adjusted MPA AUC0-12 (microgramsnhour/ml) by age group (MYCS 2675) 
  No. 
Day 7 
  Month 3 
  No.  Month 9 
< 6 yr. 
6 to < 12 yr. 
12 to 18 yr. 
17 
17 
21 
27.4 ± 9.54 
33.2 ± 12.1 
26.3 ± 9.14 
49.7 ± 18.2 
61.9 ± 19.6 
53.6 ± 20.2 
12 
11 
14 
60.9 ± 10.7 
66.8 ± 21.2 
56.7 ± 14.0 
32/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparisons with adult population 
Results from these studies were compared with those from study MYCS 058 in adult renal transplant 
patients taking 1 g bid of CellCept. For the immediate post-operative period in paediatric patients the 
dose  of  23  mg/kg  bid  (study  MYCS  2190)  provided  an  MPA  AUC0-12  scattered  around  
27.2 microgramsnhour/ml. In MYCS 2675 (where the dose was 600mg/m2), at day 7 there were more 
values  above  27.2  microgramsnhour/ml  than  below.  However,  a  similar  pattern  was  noted  in  adult 
renal  patients  in  the  first  11  days  post-transplant.  As  with  all  organ  transplants,  the  MPA  AUC0-12 
values rose over time reaching a plateau between 3 and 9 months. The late-transplant values from the 
paediatric patients (MYCS 2675) increased by approximately 2-fold and this falls within the range of 
the values occurring in adults. 
Drug –drug interactions 
Interaction  studies  have  not  been  performed  in  the  paediatric  population.  There  were  only  4  agents 
(diazoxide,  lidocaine/prilocaine  cream,  pentobarbital  and  somatropin)  taken  by  paediatric  patients  in 
the  first  12  months  following  renal  transplant  that  were  not  taken  by  adults  in  the  pivotal  studies. 
There  was  no  known  pharmacokinetic  mechanism  indicating  that  a  drug-drug  interaction  between 
these drugs and MMF was likely. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  metabolism  of  MMF  to  the  active  moiety  MPA  and  its  subsequent  metabolism  to  the  inactive 
MPAG  are  crucial  in  the  prevention  of  graft  rejection  regardless  of  age  and  organ  transplanted. 
Exploratory  analyses  did  not  reveal  a  PK/PD  relationship  between  MPA  pharmacokinetics  and 
efficacy  (acute  rejection).  MPA  AUC0-12,  Cmax  and  Cmin  (i.e.  trough  MMF  levels)  were  not  good 
predictors of rejection in the first 12 months post-transplant. PK/PD analyses were also attempted for 
safety  issues  (especially  leucopenia,  sepsis,  anaemia,  diarrhoea)  using  linear  regression.  The  only 
finding  was  an  association  between  MPA  Cmax  and  diarrhoea  but  this  was  no  longer  statistically 
significant if adjusted for age. In conclusion, although in adults following renal transplant, there was a 
strong inverse correlation between the plasma AUC0-12 and the probability of acute rejection, this was 
not demonstrated in paediatric patients. 
Discussion on clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
Paediatric renal transplant programme 
In paediatric patients of 2 years and above, the pharmacokinetic data provided some re-assurance that 
the  proposed  dose  (600  mg/m2)  may  provide  an  AUC0-12  which  was  similar  to  that  in  adults  in  the 
immediate (< 40 days) and the late post-transplant period. In adults these values were associated with 
acceptable  efficacy  in  prevention  of  rejection  and  graft  loss.  However,  for  paediatric  patients  aged 
target  of  
between  6  and  12  years,  all 
27.2 microgramsnhour/ml. 
the  MPA  AUC0-12  values  were  above 
the 
Clinical efficacy (Paediatric renal transplant) 
Study MYCS 2675 was submitted as the pivotal efficacy study and study MYCS 2190 as supporting 
study.  No  randomised  comparative  data  were  provided.  Retrospectively  collected  series,  a  post-
marketing study and published data from the North American Pediatric Renal Transplant Cooperative 
Study (NAPRTCS) were also provided. 
Paediatric renal transplant study MYCS 2675 
This was a single-arm, open label study of MMF oral suspension in paediatric patients following renal 
transplant.  The  study  was  carried  out  in  15  sites  in  the  USA,  Australia  and  Europe.  The  main 
objectives  of  the  study  were  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability  and  pharmacokinetics  of  MMF 
suspension.  The  efficacy  endpoints  included  prophylaxis  of  acute  rejection  at  6  months,  patient  and 
graft survival at 6 and 12 months and immunosuppressive treatment for rejection at 6 months.  
Patients were stratified into one of three defined age groups: 3 months to < 6 years, 6 to < 12 years and 
12 to 18 years. Patients with recurrent focal segmental glomerular sclerosis were not eligible because 
of their high risk of graft loss. Patients with HIV or with active hepatitis B were also excluded. 
33/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
The dose of MMF suspension was 600 mg/m2 bid (up to 1 g bid), with treatment starting as early as  
24  hours  pre-transplant  but  no  later  than  72  hours  post-transplant.  After  9  months  patients  could 
switch to capsules if desired with the following doses:   
•  patients with a BSA of 1.25-1.5 m2 received 750 mg (3 × 250 mg capsules) bid  
•  patients with a BSA > 1.5 m2 received 1 g (4 × 250 mg capsules) bid 
In addition to MMF, patients were treated with cyclosporin plus a corticosteroid. Each study centre’s 
standard practice was followed regarding the use of anti-lymphocyte antibody induction therapy. 
Biopsy  specimen  were  reviewed  both  centrally  and  locally,  with  the  local  assessment  the  primary 
method for assessing BPR. In patients with signs and symptoms characteristic of rejection and in those 
who  received  a  full-course  of  anti-rejection  treatment  but  who  did  not  have  biopsy  confirmation,  a 
diagnosis of “presumed rejection” was made. 
Results 
A  total  of  100  patients  were  entered  into  the  study  following  either  a  single  first  or  second  renal 
allograft.  
The 6 months BPR results are shown in Table 13. A quarter of the patients had first BPR or presumed 
rejection  during  the  first  6  months  post  transplant  with  no  major  differences  between  age  groups, 
although paediatric patients below the age of 6 years had a tendency for fewer first rejection episodes. 
For  graft  loss  and  death  at  12  months,  the  overall  incidence  was  7  (7%)  with  5  graft  losses  and  2 
deaths. Neither of the 2 deaths were considered to be related to MMF (see Clinical safety section of 
this  report).  Four  of  the  5  graft  loss  patients  were  aged  12-18  years.  Three  patients  lost  their 
transplanted kidneys as a result of technical complications and 1 patient started anti-rejection therapy 
prior to starting study MMF.  
Table 13.  Rejection endpoints at 6 months (MYCS 2675, using paediatric criteria) 
< 6 yr. 
(n=33) 
(n=34) 
6 to < 12 yr. 
12 to 18 yr. 
Total 
(n=33) 
No. (%) 
9 (27.3) 
9 (27.3) 
(n=100) 
No. (%) 
24 (24.0) 
25 (25.0) 
BPR 
BPR  or    presumed 
rejection 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
6 (18.2) 
7 (21.2) 
9 (26.5) 
9 (26.5) 
In the study half the paediatric patients had kidneys from living-related donors (which is expected to 
reduce  rejection  episodes  and  increase  graft  survival).  An  analysis  of  efficacy  by  donor  type  of  the 
pivotal study was carried out (Table 14). The prevalent source of graft was cadaveric in Europe (81%) 
whereas in North America most grafts were of living-related source (69%).  
Historical  data  were  provided  to  suggest  that  acute  rejection  in  paediatric  patients  treated  with 
cyclosporin regimens was  between 58 and 62% between 1982 to 1996 both in Europe and the USA 
compared with 11-31% in study MYCS 2675. 
34/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14.  BPR or presumed rejection at 6-month by donor type and Continent (MYCS 2675) 
Europe 
North 
America 
Australia 
All 
Cadaveric 
8/26 (31%) 
2/18 (11%) 
-- 
Living-related 
0/6 (--) 
12/44 (27%) 
2/4 (50%) 
10/44 
(23%) 
14/54 
(26%) 
Living-unrelated 
-- 
1/2 (50%) 
-- 
1/2 (50%) 
All  
8/32 (25%) 
15/64 (23%) 
2/4 (50%) 
25/100 
(25%) 
Paediatric renal transplant study MYCS 2190 
The primary objectives of this study were pharmacokinetics and safety but secondary objectives were 
the proportion of patients with at least one biopsy-proven rejection episode in the first 6 months and 
the  incidence  of  graft  and  patient  survival  at  1  and  3  years.  A  total  of  14/40  patients  (35%) 
experienced BPR or presumed rejection in the first 6 months. Two patients had graft loss on day 48 
and day 53 post-transplant and there were no study deaths. 
Comparison of efficacy results in paediatric patients with similar studies in adults 
The rejection criteria used for adult patients were less stringent than the paediatric criteria. Borderline 
rejection (Banff grade I) was considered as rejection in paediatric patients but not in adults. Borderline 
rejection  treated  with  a  full  course  of  immunosuppressant  therapy  was  considered  as  “presumed 
rejection”  in  adults.  Acute  rejections  after  study  withdrawal  were  excluded  from  the  adult  studies 
whilst  those  in  the  paediatric  studies  were  not.  A  comparison  of  the  6-month  rejection  episodes  in 
adults and paediatric patients is shown in Table 15.  
Table 15.  Rejection endpoints in paediatric and adult studies (using adult criteria) 
Paediatric 
  Adult Studies 
MYCS 2675 
  MYC 023 
  MYC 1886 
MMF 
  MMF 
AZA 
  MMF 
AZA 
(0.750  -  1  g 
bd) 
n=100 
(1g bd) 
n=173 
(100-150 
mg) 
n=166 
(1g bd) 
n=167 
(1-2 
mg/kg/d) 
n=166 
BPR at 6 months 
BPR  or  presumed 
rejection 6 months 
Graft 
and 
loss 
patient  death  at  12 
months 
19% 
22% 
7% 
19.7% 
35.5% 
19.8% 
38.0% 
31.8% 
48.2% 
26.3% 
45.8% 
11.7% 
13.6% 
8.5% 
12.2% 
Retrospective and Published series 
Comparative  analyses  for  paediatric  patients  who  had  not  received  MMF  were  performed  using 
historical data from 3 institutions (Germany, France, USA), stratified by age group and source of graft 
(cadaver  versus  living-related  donor).  Overall  in  the  non-MMF  patients,  60.7%  of  patients  had 
cadaveric kidneys and 38.4% had kidneys from a living-related donor (versus  44% and 54% in study 
MYCS 2675). From the German centre (n=55) the rejection rates for each age group varied between 
35/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25% and 65% (overall 50%) whereas in France (n=30) the rates were approximately 30% for all age 
groups. No deaths were reported. Graft losses incidences were too low to make any comparisons. 
Published  efficacy  data  from  the  NAPRTCS  were  provided.  The  registry  database  contains  data  on 
5,516  paediatric  patients  that  have  undergone  renal  transplantation  during  the  period  of  1987  to 
January 1998. The analysis shows a higher 6-month acute rejection rate (42 and 57% for living and 
cadaveric grafts, respectively) than occurred in study MYCS 2675 (27 and 23% respectively).  
This is a prospective observational cohort study with a companion case-control study, the final report 
on both have been submitted end 2002. The main objective of the cohort study is to address the issue 
of  whether  MMF  was  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  post-transplant  lymphoproliferative 
disorders  (PTLD)  in  comparison  with  alternative  immunosuppressant  regimens.  The  cohort  study 
collected  data  from  two  transplant  registries  -  the  United  Network  Organ  Sharing  Registry  (UNOS) 
from  the  USA  and  the  Collaborative  Transplant  Study  (CTS)  registry  in  Europe  and  Canada.  MMF 
patients  were  matched  for  age  to  non-MMF  patients  within  ±  5  years.  In  UNOS  registry, 
approximately half the patients had a cadaveric graft whereas the percentage was considerably higher 
in  the  CTS  registry  (72%  in  children  on  MMF  and  81%  in  children  on  non-MMF  regimens).  
The mean age was 13 years and 12 years in UNOS and CTS respectively. 
The average duration of follow up in UNOS was 1.7 years (total person years of follow up =698) and 
in CTS 1.2 and 1.3 years for MMF and non-MMF respectively (total person years of follow up =328). 
There is no indication that children on MMF have a higher frequency of rejection episodes than those 
on  non-MMF  regimens  with  a  trend  towards  less  graft  rejection  with  MMF  (UNOS:  3.9%  versus 
5.5%; CTS: 0.7% versus 2.4% for MMF and non-MMF patients respectively). Graft rejection rates in 
the  registries  were  considerably  lower  than  in  the  pivotal  study,  MYCS  2675  where  they  varied 
between 18 and 27% (depending on age). 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Comparison with historical data in adults and comparison with an overall estimation of graft survival 
and acute rejection episodes from clinical practice in Europe indicate similar efficacy for MMF in the 
paediatric  and  adult  populations.  The  precise  efficacy  of  MMF-containing  regimens  compared  to 
alternative regimens is difficult to establish in the paediatric population, in the absence of adequately 
controlled  data.  The  historical  controls  presented  suffer  from  the  known  pittfalls  of  retrospective 
series. The retrospective series presented come from a 15 year period (1984 and 1999) during which 
time there may well have been many changes in factors that could affect graft survival and the adverse 
event profiles of treatment. No control was exercised over patient selection. The patients included in 
the published data from the NAPRTCS registry in the US were also not considered sufficiently similar 
to the MYCS 2675 study to act as a robust control group in terms of efficacy.  
Clinical safety  (Paediatric renal transplant) 
From  the  140  patients  in  the  2  paediatric  studies  (MYCS  2675,  MYCS  2190  and  extension  MYCS 
2190v2),  approximately  78%  have  received  MMF  for  at  least  12  months  and  approximately  11%  
(all from the supporting study MYCS 2190v2) for 3 years. 
Adverse events, adverse drug reactions, serious adverse events and deaths 
All 140 paediatric patients reported at least one adverse event. Those observed in more than 50% of 
the patients were fever (75%), pain (70%), hypertension (70%), diarrhoea (68.6%), vomiting (58.6%), 
respiratory infection (55.7%) and abdominal pain (55.0%). Selected adverse events are summarised in 
Table 16. 
A total of 63 (45.0%) of paediatric patients developed opportunistic infections 58 (41.4%) in the first 
12  months.  Mucocutaneous  Candida  was  more  prevalent  in  the  paediatric  patients  below  the  age  of  
6 years (22% versus 6.1% and 8.0% for the other age groups) whilst Herpes zoster and CMV tissue 
invasion increased with age. 
Patients  below  the  age  of  6  years  had  a  trend  towards  a  higher  incidence  of  diarrhoea,  vomiting, 
anaemia  and  sepsis.  The  incidence  of  leucopenia  was  similar  for  both  the  younger  age  groups  but 
higher  than  in  the  12  to  18  year  group.  For  these  adverse  events  the  general  trend  was  a  reduced 
incidence with increased age. However, the oldest paediatric patients showed a trend towards a greater 
incidence of pain, nausea, headache and tremor.  
36/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
A  total  of  110  patients  (78.6%)  had  adverse  events  possibly  or  probably  related  to  MMF.  
Overall, severe adverse drug reactions occurred more frequently in the oldest age group (66% versus 
56.4%  in  the  whole  population).  Table  16  shows  adverse  events  that  were  probably  and/or  possibly 
related to MMF. 
Table 16.  MMF: selected adverse events in paediatric and adult patients (first 12 months) 
Paediatric studies (MYCS2675, MYC2190) 
< 6 yr. 
(n=41) 
No. (%) 
6  to  <  12 
yr. 
12  to  18 
yr. 
(n=49) 
(n=50) 
No. (%) 
No. (%) 
  Total 
(n=140) 
No. (%) 
Adult studies 
MYC1866 
MYC023 
Pooled 
(n=336) 
No. (%) 
Related  
  Diarrhoea 
17 (41.5) 
14 (28.6) 
6 (12.0) 
  Leucopenia 
10 (24.4) 
13 (26.5) 
8 (16.0) 
  Anaemia 
9 (22.0) 
4 (8.2) 
3 (6.0) 
Sepsis 
8 (19.5) 
8 (16.3) 
7 (14.0) 
Dose 
modification  
  Diarrhoea 
11 (26.8) 
9 (18.4) 
4 (8.0) 
  Leucopenia 
10 (24.4) 
14 (28.6) 
8 (16.0) 
  Anaemia 
Sepsis 
4 (9.8) 
2 (4.9) 
2 (4.1) 
4 (8.2) 
1 (2.0) 
3 (6.0) 
Severe  
  Diarrhoea 
3 (7.3) 
-- 
  Leucopenia 
4 (9.8) 
  Anaemia 
Sepsis 
4 (9.8) 
1 (2.4) 
3 (6.1) 
3 (6.1) 
1 (2.0) 
Withdrawal 
  Diarrhoea 
1 (2.4) 
1 (2.0) 
  Leucopenia 
-- 
  Anaemia 
1 (2.4) 
Sepsis 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
-- 
2 (4.0) 
4 (8.0) 
2 (4.0) 
-- 
-- 
-- 
2 (4.0) 
7 (26.4) 
31 (22.1) 
16 (11.4) 
23 (16.4) 
24 (17.1) 
32 (22.9) 
7 (5.0) 
9 (6.4) 
3 (2.1) 
9 (6.4) 
11 (7.9) 
4 (2.9) 
2 (1.4) 
-- 
1 (0.7) 
2 (1.4) 
9 (17.6) 
61 (18.2) 
19 (5.7) 
46 (13.7) 
20 (6.0) 
62 (18.5) 
4 (1.2) 
20 (6.0) 
12 (3.6) 
10 (3.0) 
50 (14.9) 
20 (6.0) 
-- 
5 (1.5) 
3 (0.9) 
3 (0.9) 
Abbreviations:  Related,  probably  or  possibly  related;  Dose  modification,  resulting  in  dose  reduction  or 
interruption; Severe, as graded; Withdrawal, resulting in premature withdrawal from study treatment. 
37/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17.  Adverse events with observed incidence ≥ 10% possibly/probably related to MMF 
(first 12 months) 
< 6 yr. 
n = 41 
41.5% 
24.4% 
19.5% 
19.5% 
7.3% 
14.6% 
-- 
19.5% 
22.0% 
6 to < 12 yr. 
12 to 18 yr. 
n = 49 
n = 50 
Adults 
n = 336 
28.6% 
26.5% 
16.3% 
4.1% 
12.2% 
12.2% 
-- 
4.1% 
8.2% 
12.0% 
16.0% 
14.0% 
8.0% 
10.0% 
10.0% 
-- 
10.0% 
6.0% 
17.6% 
18.2% 
13.7% 
16.4% 
15.2% 
13.7% 
12.2% 
6.8% 
5.7% 
Diarrhoea 
Leucopenia 
Sepsis 
Urinary tract infection 
Herpes simplex 
Abdominal pain 
Constipation 
Infection 
Anaemia 
The  majority  of  cases  of  sepsis  were  considered  to  be  viral  whilst  infections  were  commonly  upper 
respiratory tract infections. This finding needs to  be considered in relation to the fact that paediatric 
renal patients are particularly at risk of infections both because of their previous lack of exposure to 
pathogens and because of their size surgery is more complex.  
Overall in the paediatric studies, serious adverse events (including deaths, safety related withdrawals 
and  malignancies)  were  observed  in  26  (18.5%)  of  the  140  patients.  Severe  neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia and GI bleeding occurred in 3, 1 and 4 patients, respectively. There were 2 (1.4%) 
cases of malignancy, both lymphoma/lymphoproliferative disorders, one occurring at 280 days and the 
other more than 3 years after the start of MMF. Both cases were reported in paediatric patients below 
the age of 6 years.  
In the first 12 months of the paediatric studies, 2 patients died (one from pulmonary embolus and the 
other  from  acute  haemorrhagic  pancreatitis)  and  neither  were  considered  to  be  related  to  MMF.  
Acute  haemorrhagic  pancreatitis  occurred  in  a  2  year  old  male  patient  with  a  history  of  acute 
pancreatitis.  The  patient  had  septicaemia  with  Candida  and  Klebsiella  and  the  cause  of  death  was 
shock and acute haemorrhagic pancreatitis. 
A comparison during the first 12 months post-transplant with the adult studies with MMF following 
renal transplant (n = 336) was provided. Opportunistic infections occurred with similar frequencies in 
adult  and  paediatric  patients  (45.5%  versus  41.4%  respectively).  The  only  infections  showing  a 
marked difference were CMV invasion which was twice as common in adults as in paediatric patients 
(8.6% versus 4.3%) and CMV infection which occurred three times as often (6.5% adults versus 2.1% 
paediatric patients). It was noted that following transplant, paediatric patients can be affected by the 
growth-suppressant effects of steroids and very young paediatric patients may be more susceptible to 
viral infections because they lack prior immunity. Apart from Herpes simplex and constipation (which 
was not reported in any of the paediatric patients), all other commonly reported adverse drug reactons 
to MMF occurred more frequently in paediatric patients below the age of 6 years when compared to 
adults. Severe diarrhoea and leucopenia occurred more frequently in paediatric patients than in adults. 
Diarrhoea, anaemia and infection (but not sepsis) occurred with considerably greater frequency in the 
younger patients (<6 years) when compared with the older paediatric patients or adults.  
Withdrawal  as  a  result  of  an  adverse  event,  intercurrent  illness,  laboratory  abnormality  or  death 
occurred  in  16/140  patients  (11.4%  overall;  9.8%  in  the  <  6  years,  12.2%  in  the  6  to<  12  year  and 
12.0% in the 12 to 18 years age group). No association with age was apparent. Adverse events leading 
to withdrawal were less frequent in paediatric patients than in adults (8.6% vs 12.8%) with the most 
frequent events being GI reactions. Cardiovascular reactions were more frequent in paediatric patients 
(3.6% vs 1.5%) because of an increased frequency of “thrombosis” and “heart arrest” 
38/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose modifications 
Dose  modifications  in the  pivotal study are reported in Table  18, for the first  12  months.  A total  of 
49%  of  patients  had  an  adverse  event  that  resulted  in  a  dose  reduction/interruption  of  MMF.  
The  median  reduction  was  33%  and  the  duration  ranged  from  13-24  days  but  after  dose 
interruption/reduction  most  patients  returned  to  within  90%  of  their  original  MMF  dose.  
The proportion of paediatric patients who had at least one decrease in MMF dose due to an adverse 
event differed according to the age group. The proportion decreased for increasing age groups (58% in 
the  <6  year,  41%  in  6-<12  year  and  30%  in  12-18  year  group).  In  terms  of  median  average  daily 
MMF, a clear age trend was not considered to be present. 
A greater percentage of paediatric patients had their MMF dose reduced or interrupted because of an 
adverse event (35,7% adults versus 50.7% paediatric patients). Within the paediatric population, dose 
reduction/interruption  occurred  more  often  in  the  youngest  age  group  for  leucopenia,  diarrhoea  and 
anaemia. 
In  the  first  12  months  of  study  MYCS  2675,  10  patients  (7.1%)  were  withdrawn  from  the  study 
because of the need for medication prohibited by the protocol. This was considerably greater than the 
1%  (4  patients)  from  the  adult  studies.  In  8  of  the  10  patients  tacrolimus  was  used  to  replace 
cyclosporin  (toxicity  in  5  patients  and  chronic  rejection  in  3  patients)  and  in  the  remaining  
2 cyclophosphamide was required to treat focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. The data provided give 
some  re-assurance  that  corticosteroids  doses  used  in  the  pivotal  paediatric  study  are  not  markedly 
different from those used in routine clinical practice. 
In the extension to MYCS 2190, 40 paediatric patients were treated with MMF for longer than 3 years 
and  70  for  at  least  2.5  years.  These  patients  did  not  reveal  any  new  or  unexpected  adverse  events.   
In reference to MYCS 2675, the final study report provides with safety data of patients for 1.5 years 
for  49%  of  patients.  It  showed  premature  termination  due  to  an  adverse  event  (total  11,  11%)  and  
4  additional  cases  of  opportunistic  infection  bringing  the  study  total  to  52  (52%),  compared  to  12-
month data. 
Table 18.  MMF: Dose modifications, average daily and bid dose (MYCS 2675, first 12 months) 
< 6 yr. 
6 to < 12 yr. 
12 to 18 yr. 
n=33 
n=34 
n=33 
Total 
n=100 
Dose modifications: 
  Dose modification for AE (No.) 
21 (64%) 
16 (47%) 
12 (36%) 
  No dose modification (No.)  
12 (36%) 
18 (53%) 
21 (64%) 
Median average daily dose 
  Dose modification for AE (mg/m2) 
  No dose modification (mg/m2) 
1027 
1196 
1015 
1197 
Median average bid dose in mg/m2  
% reduction (from 600 mg/m2) 
560  
(7%) 
578  
(4%) 
1005 
1187 
575  
(4%) 
49 
51 
1020 
1194 
576  
(5%) 
Abbreviations: AE, adverse event. 
Dose of corticosteroids 
The mean maintenance corticosteroids dose in the pivotal study MYCS 2675 was 0.2-0.3 mg/kg/day at 
6 months post-transplant. Table 19 shows the maintenance corticosteroids dose in mg/kg/day by age 
39/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
group  at  6  and  12  months  post-transplant.  From  the  report  of  the  NAPRTCS  in  4,217  paediatric 
patients below the age of 18 years receiving cyclosporin and AZA, the approximate mean prednisone 
dose was 0.2 mg/kg/day. 
Table 19.  Study MYCS 2675: Mean maintenance corticosteroid dose 
< 6 yr. 
Mean ± SEM 
6 to < 12 yr. 
No.  Mean ± SEM 
12 to 18 yr. 
No.  Mean ± SEM 
0.3 ± 0.03 
0.2 ± 0.01 
29 
26 
0.2 ± 0.01 
0.2 ± 0.01 
20 
18 
0.2 ± 0.01 
0.1 ± 0.01 
No
. 
28 
28 
Month 6 
Month 12 
Retrospective data 
The data collected from the three centres differed to those from study MYCS 2675 in several respects 
such as definition of leucopenia in one centre, reporting of viral sepsis and exclusion of patients who 
died during the 1st year post-transplant in one centre. Leucopenia in the non-MMF patients from the 
French and German series occurred with a greater overall frequency (40 and 47% respectively) than in 
the study MYCS 2675 (25%). Anaemia was observed in all but one patient from the German and the 
US  series  (n=82)  whilst  it  was  only  reported  in  10%  of  the  patients  from  the  French  centre  (versus 
36%  in  study  MYCS  2675).  The  frequency  of  diarrhoea  was  10%,  30%  and  60%  in  the  French, 
German  and  US  series  respectively.  The  overall  rates  of  sepsis  was  similar  for  the  non-MMF  series 
from France (30%) and the USA (35%) and also to that in the MMF study (35%) but the profile by 
age group differed. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  most  common  adverse  drug  reactions  for  CellCept  differ  according  to  the  age  of  the  patient. 
Severe  leucopenia  and  severe  diarrhoea  were  more  common  in  paediatric  patients  whilst  severe 
anaemia  and  sepsis  were  more  frequent  in  adults.  Regardless  of  severity,  diarrhoea,  leucopenia, 
anaemia and sepsis were observed with greater frequency in paediatric patients. Diarrhoea or anaemia 
required interruption or reduction of immunosuppressant therapy in all age groups (except anaemia in 
oldest  paediatric  patients)  in  the  pivotal  paediatric  MMF  study  (diarrhoea  12%;  anaemia  6%).  
The frequency of diarrhoea, which is of particular concern, may reflect the increased susceptibility of 
paediatric patients to viral infections. An age related increasing incidence of diarrhoea (and to a lesser 
extent leucopenia and  anaemia) were also  observed  in non-MMF  treated  patients. However, no data 
were  available  to  confirm  an  infective  origin  of  diarrhoea.  Viral  gastro-enteritis  post-transplant  can 
precipitate rejection and diarrhoea of any cause can affect the absorption of cyclosporin. 
Concerning  safety  aspects  beyond  12  months,  the  data  are  very  limited  but  do  not  indicate  that  the 
long-term use of MMF would result in major safety concerns. 
Discussion on clinical aspects and benefit/risk assessment  (Paediatric renal transplant) 
The  proposed dose produces AUC0-12 values in  paediatric patients  above the age of  2 years that are 
similar  those  in  adults.  The  proposed  CellCept  dose  has  only  been  validated  by  pharmacokinetic 
parameters. No PK/PD relationship in children has been established. 
A  comparison  with  efficay  data  in  adults  indicates  similar  efficacy  in  the  paediatric  population. 
However, these results need to be viewed with caution as the efficacy results could be affected by the 
large  proportion  of  paediatric  patients  (50%)  with  grafts  from  living-related  donors  in  the  MMF 
studies.  No  randomised  double-blind  study  has  been  carried  out  in  paediatric  patients  comparing 
CellCept  as  part  of  an  immunosuppressant  regimen  versus  an  already  established  regimen  used  for 
renal transplants in paediatric patients. 
Paediatric  data  showed  differences  in  the  ADR  profile  compared  to  adults,  particularly  in  patients 
below  6  years.  The  individual  reactions  that  occurred  with  greater  frequency  in  paediatric  patients 
40/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were diarrhoea, sepsis, leucopenia and anaemia. These could relate to the increased susceptibility of 
paediatric patients to infections or indicate a greater susceptibility of paediatric patients to the adverse 
effects of CellCept. 
CPMP Recommendation 
The CPMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wordings to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  based  on  the  observations  and  the 
appropriate conclusions. 
Renewal of the Marketing Authorisation 
At  the  time  of  the  5-year  renewal  of  the  marketing  authorisation,  CellCept  was  approved  in  the 
following indications: 
•  CellCept  250 mg  capsules,  CellCept  500 mg  tablets  and  CellCept  1  g/5  ml  powder  for  oral 
suspension are indicated in combination with cyclosporin and corticosteroids for the prophylaxis 
of acute transplant rejection in patients receiving allogeneic renal, cardiac or hepatic transplants. 
•  CellCept 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is indicated in combination with 
cyclosporin  and  corticosteroids  for  the  prophylaxis  of  acute  transplant  rejection  in  patients 
receiving allogeneic renal or hepatic transplants. 
The  additional  data  reported  in  the  clinical  expert  statement  confirm  the  continued  efficacy  in  the 
currently  authorised  indications.  There  are  no  data  indicating  that  the  current  dosage  regimens  are 
inappropriate or need revision. 
Additional long-term safety data have become available from ongoing studies, without revealing any 
new safety concerns or a change in the expected frequency of adverse events. 
All PSURs since product launch have been submitted and assessed. In addition, an interim PSUR has 
been  submitted  with  the  renewal  application.  This  covers  the  period  01  May  to  31  August  2000.  
It  is  estimated  that  approximately  60,000  patients  have  received  CellCept  post-marketing  with  an 
additional 1,040 receiving the product in company sponsored clinical trials during this time period.  
The MAH has agreed to submit PSUR 12 by June 2001 and to submit following PSURs on a yearly 
basis thereafter, until the next renewal date. 
CPMP Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of the available information, the CPMP is of the opinion that the quality, 
the  safety  and  the  efficacy  of  this  medicinal  product  continues  to  be  adequately  and  sufficiently 
demonstrated and therefore considered by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of CellCept continues 
to be favourable. The CPMP recommended the renewal of the Marketing Authorisation for CellCept. 
41/41 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
