22 April 2021 
EMA/323721/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Celsunax  
International non-proprietary name: ioflupane (123I) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005135/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 7 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .............................. 17 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 18 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 18 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 18 
2.3.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 18 
2.3.2. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 19 
2.3.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 19 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 19 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 20 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 20 
2.4.4. Conclusions on the clinical aspects ..................................................................... 20 
2.5. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 20 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 21 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 21 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 21 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 21 
3.1. Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 21 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 21 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 2/23 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
123I 
5-HT 
Iodine-123 
serotonin 
β-CIT    
123I-2β-carboxymethoxy-3β-(4-iodophenyl-nortropane) 
β-CIT-FE  
123I-2β-carboxymethoxy-3β-(4-iodophenyl)N—(2-fluoroethyl)-nortropane  
β-CIT-FP  
123I-2β-carboxymethoxy-3β-(4-iodophenyl)N—(2-fluoropropyl)-nortropane  
DA  
DAT  
dopamine  
dopamine transporter  
DOSEai  
maximum daily dose consumed per inhabitan 
EOS 
ERA 
GC  
End of synthesis 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
Gas Chromatography 
HPLC     
High performance liquid chromatography 
ICP-MS  
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
IP-β-CIT  
isopropyl ester of β-CIT  
IP-β-CIT-FE  
isopropyl ester of β-CIT-FE  
IP-β-CIT-FP  
isopropyl ester of β-CIT-FP  
IR 
Infrared 
FDOPA   
6(18F)fluoro-L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine 
Fpen 
GLP  
LoQ 
MBq 
NMR 
PEC 
PET  
(Market) Penetration Factor 
Good Laboratory Practise 
List of Questions 
Megabecquerel 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Predicted Environmental Concentration 
positron emission tomography  
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
TLC 
TTC 
Thin layer chromatography 
Toxicoloical Treshold Concentration  
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 3/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Celsunax is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
• 
• 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonian syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Celsunax is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and 
progressive supranuclear palsy. 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. 
Celsunax is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease 
dementia. 
The legal basis for this application refers to article 10(1), Generic of DaTSCAN, a Centrally 
Authorised Medicinal Product. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 4/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received the following Scientific advice on the development relevant for the indication 
subject to the present application: 
Date 
Reference 
SAWP co-ordinators 
31 May 2018 
EMEA/H/SA/3820/1/2018/SME/I 
Minne Casteels, Mario Miguel Rosa 
The Scientific advice pertained to the following clinical aspects: 
• 
Need for in vivo bioequivalence studies. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Ewa Balkowiec Iskra 
Co-Rapporteur: N/A 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
1 July 2019 
18 July 2019 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
7 October 2019 
members on 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
7 October 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
18 October 2019 
PRAC members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
N/A 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
14 November 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
17 August 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
21 September 2021 
responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
1 October 2021 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
9 October 2020 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
15 October 2020 
applicant on 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 5/23 
 
 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
27 January 2021 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
12 & 18 February 2021 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a 2nd list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
25 February 2021 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
25 March 2021 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
07 & 13 April 2021 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
22 April 2021 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Celsunax on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Problem statement 
Ioflupane (123I) (Celsunax) 74 MBq/ml solution for injection is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical product, 
ATC code: V09AB03. It is a generic to the reference medicinal product DaTSCAN™ 74 MBq/mL solution for 
injection from GE Healthcare, which is approved since 2000 in the European Union according to Regulation 
(EC) 726/2004 under the marketing authorisation numbers EU/1/00/135/001 and EU/1/00/135/002.  
Ioflupane is a cocaine analogue. Studies in animals have shown that ioflupane binds with high affinity to 
the presynaptic dopamine transporter and so radiolabelled ioflupane (123I) can be used as a surrogate 
marker to examine the integrity of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. Ioflupane also binds to the 
serotonin transporter on 5-HT neurons but with lower (approximately 10-fold) binding affinity.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as solution for injection containing 74 MBq/ml of ioflupane (123I) at 
reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml of ioflupane) as active substance. 
Each 2.5 ml single dose vial contains 185 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to 4.5 x 1014 
Bq/mmol) at reference time. 
Each 5 ml single dose vial contains 370 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to 4.5 x 1014 
Bq/mmol) at reference time. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 6/23 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients are glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, ethanol (96 percent) and water for 
injections 
The product is available in glass vial (Type I) with a rubber stopper and a flip cap as described in section 
6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The chemical name of ioflupane (123I) is methyl (1R,2S,3S,5S)- 3-(4-iodophenyl)- 8-(3-fluoropropyl)- 8-
azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane- 2-carboxylate corresponding to the molecular formula C18H23F123INO2. It has a 
relative molecular mass of 427.29 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: Active substance structure 
As the active substance is not isolated during the manufacturing process, the cold analogue ioflupane 
(127I) was used for structure elucidation. The chemical structure of ioflupane (127I) was elucidated by a 
combination of 1H NMR and 19F NMR spectra. 
The potential for isomerism is limited, as only highly purified chemical precursor (TMSCT-FP, purity of ≥ 
95%) with four chiral centres (1R, 2S, 3S, 5S) is used in the manufacturing process. The weakness of the 
carbon-tin bond of the chemical precursor (TMSCT-FP) readily gives regiospecific radioiodination of the 
chemical precursor without changing the four-existing chiral centres (1R, 2S, 3S, 5S). Therefore, the 
destannylation method prevents formation of other isomers. The resulting active substance ioflupane (123I) 
has four chiral centres (1R, 2S, 3S, 5S), just as for ioflupane (127I).  
Ioflupane (123I) contains an atom of the photon emitting radionuclide 123I. 123I decays through electron 
capture (100%) to the nearly-stable isotope tellurium-123 (123Te), through emission of electrons, X-ray 
and gamma radiation. The emitted gamma radiation has a predominant energy of 159 keV, which is 
primarily used for imaging purposes (Single Proton Emission Computer Tomography). Due to the short 
half-life of ioflupane (123I), the physiochemical characteristics of its “cold” analogue ioflupane (127I) are 
presented. The “cold” analogue only differs from the active substance in terms of lack of radioactivity and 
molecular weight due to replacement of the 123I by the 127I atom. The “cold” analogue is a white to off 
white solid soluble in water and chloroform. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 7/23 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls (Active substance) 
The manufacture of the active substance ioflupane (123I) is a continuous process carried out in closed 
systems. As a consequence, it is not isolated. Ioflupane (123I) is synthesised via oxidative 
iododestannylation of the chemical precursor trimethylstannyl-CTFP (TMSCT-FP) with the radionuclide 123I. 
During the synthesis, the non-radioactive isotope 127I is added, which reacts with TMSCT-FP to form 
ioflupane (127I). 
The active substance is synthesised in 3 main stages: 
1.  Manufacture of precursor (TBSCT-FP) 
2.  Manufacture of Sodium Iodide (123I) solution (Na123I) 
3.  Manufacture of final active substance (Ioflupane (123I) 
1. Precursor: TBSCT-FP 
According to the Guideline on Radiopharmaceuticals, information on chemical precursors is presented in a 
separate section 3.2.S in Module 3. 
General information (Precursor) 
The chemical name of the precursor (TBSCT-FP) is (1R,2S,3S,5S)-methyl-8-(3-fluoropropyl)-3-(4-
(trimethylstannyl)phenyl)-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane-2-carboxylate corresponding to the molecular formula 
C21H32FNO2Sn. It has a relative molecular mass of 468.19 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 2: Precursor (TBSCT-FP) structure 
The chemical structure of the precursor was elucidated by a combination of 1H-NMR, 119Sn-NMR, 13C-NMR, 
IR, and HPLC. 
TBSCT-FP (also known as SCTP- 09) is a colourless to yellowish oil soluble in organic solvents such as 
acetonitrile, dichloromethane and ethyl acetate, and slightly soluble in water. 
TMSCT-FP is a stereoisomeric compound. Cocaine hydrochloride is used as structure providing starting 
material (chiral pool) of the synthesis. The stereochemistry of the bridgehead atoms in cocaine is fixed and 
controls further chemical conversions. The use of cocaine has the advantage, that the tropane structure is 
already part of the molecule and has not to be synthesized by a complicated diastereoselective synthesis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 8/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls (Precursor) 
The precursor is synthesized in 8 main steps using well defined starting materials with acceptable 
specifications.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
The active substance is packaged in clear glass vial and closed by a chlorobutyl sealing cone and screw caps 
which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification (Precursor) 
The precursor specification includes tests for appearance (visual), identity (HPLC, 1H-NMR, 119Sn-NMR, IR), 
impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), heavy metals (ICP-MS), assay (difference calculation), 
bioburden (Ph. Eur.), and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) 
The limits for related substances and total impurities were chosen according to current Ph. Eur. 
monograph number 2902 “Chemical precursors for pharmaceutical preparations”.  
The impurity A is the main “by-product” of synthesis and will be removed via flash chromatography during 
the synthesis. It could also arise as a cold analogue of certain radiopharmaceutical products in the 
manufacturing process. It has therefore to be limited to a very low level in order to achieve high 
radiospecific yield. The process validation data confirm this limit as acceptable. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the 
reference standards used for identity, purity and assay testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data (7 commercial scale batches) of the active substance are provided. The results are 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability (Precursor) 
Stability data from 3 validation batches of the precursor  from the proposed manufacturers stored in the 
intended commercial package for up to 24 months under long term conditions (−20°C ± 5°C) and 1 
validation batch for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (5°C ± 3°C and) according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided. Due to the high viscosity of the precursor, the vials were stored in upright 
position. 
Stress stability testing was carried out in one validation batch at 30°C ± 2°C and 75% ± 5% RH for up 14 
days to address the effects of short term excursions during handling and transportation. The 
aforementioned storage conditions should be sufficient to cover storage, shipment and subsequent use. 
The following parameters were tested: appearance, purity, assay, and microbiology. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 9/23 
 
 
 
Under long term conditions, no decrease in quality was detected and the purity remained at about 100%. 
Under accelerated conditions, the results complied with the specification. At stress conditions, all tested 
parameters met the acceptance criteria. 
The CHMP recommended to provide stability testing results for the precursor (TMSCT-FP) for last testing 
point 24 months (REC 001) 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 12 months if the product is 
stored in a freezer in the proposed container. 
2. Intermediate: Sodium Iodide (123I) solution (Na123I)) 
During evaluation, the CHMP stated that information on 123I provided in different sections was found too 
brief and inconclusive. Therefore, it was requested as Major Objection (MO) that the applicant should 
provide whole 3.2.S section dossier for 123I describing in detail the quality of this material. Especially, the 
manufacturing process of the radionuclide precursor sodium iodide (123I) solution for radiolabelling should 
be described in detail starting with the cyclotron production, the targeting, the irradiation conditions, the 
radionuclide intermediates (Cs-123 and Xe-123), the chemical intermediates (I-123 in higher oxidation 
states than [123I]iodide), the transfer to the separation and purification process and ending with the 
dispensing process. The specification and quality control methods should be described and justified. 
Starting material should also comply with relevant Ph. Eur. requirements for solution for radiolabelling. 
This information was provided in a separate section Sodium iodide (123I) solution (see below) by the 
applicant and it was considered satisfactory.  
General information  
The chemical name of the intermediate is sodium iodide (123I) corresponding to the molecular formula 
Na123I. It has a relative molecular mass of 146 g/mol.  
Sodium Iodide is a clear and colourless solution with a half life of 13.2 hours  
Sodium Iodide (123I) bulk solution contains the active ingredient, 123I, in the form of sodium iodide (Na123I) 
in 0.02 M sodium hydroxide solution. 
123I decays with a half-life of 13.2 hours into 123Te by electronic capture (no β+ emission). There is an 
excited transition state involved, which is different from 123mTe. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls  
Iodine (123I) is prepared by irradiation, with 30 MeV protons in a cyclotron, of the xenon (124Xe) gas target. 
The cyclotron principle is to accelerate charged particles inside an acceleration chamber under reduced 
pressure. These particles pass repeatedly through a high frequency electric field for acceleration and they 
are guided on a circular path by a magnetic field. The proton beam is extracted from the cyclotron and is 
guided into the transport channel of the beam leading to an irradiation casemate. The gas target includes 
a pressure vessel as target body with pressurized gas. It is made of an AlMgSi alloy, the inner walls are 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 10/23 
 
 
 
chemically Ni-plated. During irradiation the target body is wate cooled. It is separated from the transport 
channel of the proton beam by a thin molybdenum window. 
Before irradiation, xenon (124Xe) enriched gas is stored in a cylinder placed in the irradiation casemate and 
it is transferred to the target body by cryogenic pumping. The xenon gas is enriched with 124Xe up to more 
than 99.7%. Irradiation of xenon (124Xe) enriched gas is performed under a suitable pressure with a 
proton beam characterized by an initial energy of (30 ± 1) MeV and with a current ≤120 μA for a 
minimum of about 3 hours. 
123I is produced as iodide. Radiochemical impurities consist of oxidized forms of iodine, mainly iodate 
(123IO3), and unspecified higher oxidation states of iodine. To avoid any oxidation of iodide (123I) during 
production of the sodium iodide (123I) bulk solution, all the reagents used are purged with helium. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Sodium iodide is packaged in injection vial with rubber stopper and aluminium crimp cap which complies 
with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification  
The intermediate (sodium iodide (123I) solution (Na123I)) specification complies with Ph. Eur. 2314 (sodium 
iodide (123I) solution for radiolabelling), current edition. The intermediate specification includes tests for 
appearance (visual), pH (pH indicator strips), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), identity (γ-spectrometry, 
TLC), radiochemical purity (TLC), radionuclidic purity (γ-spectrometry), and maximum specific activity.  
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and test methods of the Ph. Eur. 
monograph. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has been 
presented. 
Batch analysis data (4 commercial scale batches) of the intermediate (sodium iodide (123I) solution) are 
provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Four sample batches were prepared and analysed for radiochemical and radionuclidic purity at time of 
manufacture and at t = 48 h.  
As is expected, the radiochemical purity is not affected at all over time. If the process of purification, 
concentration and dispensing runs according to validated procedures, there is no transformation of 123I-
iodide into 123I-iodate or into other higher oxidation states of iodine to be expected. Thus, radiochemical 
purity is not a determining factor in setting the shelf life. 
The general picture in case of radionuclidic purity, however, is different. At first, short lived impurities will 
decay faster than 123I, increasing radionuclidic purity. In the course of time, the longer-lived impurities 
take over while 123I decays further, decreasing radionuclidic purity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 11/23 
 
 
 
From these considerations a shelf-life of between 40 and 60 hours post-calibration (65-85 hours post 
manufacturing) was accepted. 
3. Active substance (Ioflupane (123I)) 
The manufacture of the active substance ioflupane (123I) is a continuous process carried out in closed 
systems. As a consequence, it is not isolated prior to the finished product manufacturing process. The 
manufacturing process is, therefore, described in detail in the finished product section. 
Specification (Active Substance) 
The active substance (Ioflupane-I-123) is manufactured through a continuous process leading to the 
finished product without isolation of the active substance. Therefore, the complete description of 
specification, analytical procedures, validation of analytical procedures, batch analysis and justification of 
specification are described for the finished product only. For radioactive active substance this approach is 
acceptable. 
Stability (Active Substance) 
The active substance (Ioflupane-I-123) is manufactured through a continuous process leading to the 
finished product without isolation of the active substance. Therefore, no data is presented on stability of 
the final active substance. For radioactive active substance this approach is acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is a sterile clear colourless solution for injection containing the active substance 
ioflupane (123I), with 2.5 ml and 5 ml in a 10 ml glass vial. Each ml of solution contains 74 MBq ioflupane 
(123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to 4.5 x 1014 Bq/mmol) at reference time. Reference time is equal to 28 
hours after the end of synthesis (EOS). This corresponds to 0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml ioflupane (123I  
Celsunax is a generic version of the centrally authorized medicinal product DaTSCAN™ 74 MBq/mL solution 
for injection which was approved in the European Union in 2000. Ioflupane (123I) solution for injection is to 
be administered intravenously and indicated for the visualisation of dopaminergic transporters. The choice 
was based on activity levels compatible with both the quality control appropriate to the manufacturing 
process and occupation of transporter sites without producing any human pharmacological effect (1%). 
The active substance ioflupane (123I) is a cocaine analogue and is not isolated. Ioflupane (123I) is formed 
from the chemical precursor trimethylstannyl-CTFP (TMSCT-FP) via oxidative iododestannylation with 
sodium (123I)-iodide. The finished product also contains the non-radioactive analogue ioflupane (127I). Each 
of the molecules TMSCT-FP chemical precursor, ioflupane (123I) active substance and ioflupane (127I) non-
radioactive analogue) is present as a single stereoisomer (1R,2S,3S,5S). This isomer is chosen because of 
the known pharmacological activity of natural (1R)-cocaine and its derivatives. 
The available stability data demonstrate the compatibility of the active substance with the excipients and 
the stability of the active substance in the formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 12/23 
 
 
 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The finished product has an identical qualitative and quantitative composition as the reference medicinal 
product. The non-radioactive analogue ioflupane (127I) is also present, which derives from the reaction 
between sodium iodide (127I) and the chemical precursor under the same manufacturing conditions. 
Sodium iodide (127I) solution is used to rinse the nuclide vial containing sodium iodide (123I) to obtain the 
targeted specific activity. 
The quality target profile (QTTP) contains quality characteristics that are equivalent to the reference 
medicinal product.  
There were not provided any data on comparability of the generic and the reference medicinal product. 
Therefore, the CHMP requested as Major Objection (MO) to provide information on comparability results 
that justify the critical quality attributes for the generic medicinal product. In particularly, comparison on 
the amount of Ioflupane (127l) and on the impurity profiles for both products should be discussed. The 
comparative impurity profile was determined between the proposed radiopharmaceutical product Ioflupane 
(123I) solution for injection and the reference medicinal product using the HPLC method.  In the study 
performed, identical impurity amounts are observed for reference medicinal product and the proposed 
radiopharmaceutical product. No differences in the levels of related substances have been observed. Based 
on the results obtained, it can be concluded that the generic medicinal product has the same impurity 
profile as that of the reference medicinal product. Therefore, there are no safety concerns regarding the 
impurities in the proposed radiopharmaceutical product. 
The finished product is administered as intravenous injection. For injectable solutions, the following 
parameters are mandatory: suitable osmolality, tolerable pH, sterility, controlled level of bacterial 
endotoxins, and free of visible particles. Due to the small intravenous injection volume of each dose, 
osmolality is not considered and, therefore, not specified. The pH was thoroughly studied in the past and is 
known as a factor influencing the radiochemical purity, an acidic pH was found most favourable, which is 
similar to the pH value of the reference medicinal product. The pH is maintained by a buffer system 
formed by of acetic acid, glacial and sodium acetate trihydrate. Sterility and controlled level of bacterial 
endotoxins are assured by aseptic processing in controlled environment. Minimisation of particulate 
impurities is assured by manufacturing in a controlled environment. 
Ethanol is used to solubilise the active substance. It also serves as radical scavenger for radical species 
formed by irradiation of aqueous solutions, thereby stabilising the radioligands. The concentration of 
ethanol 96 per cent in the finished product is identical to the percentage used in the reference product. A 
small percentage of ethanol is useful for the solubility of the ioflupane, which is lipophilic and only 
moderately soluble in water. Therefore, complete removal of ethanol by evaporation would significantly 
reduce the radiochemical purity. Stability studies showed that the finished product was stable in the 
formulation containing the chosen amount of ethanol 96 per cent. 
The manufacturing process consists of the following steps: radiosynthesis of ioflupane (123I), purification of 
ioflupane (123I), formulation and dilution, and sterile filtration and aseptic dispensing. 
The radiosynthesis and purification of ioflupane (123I) are carried out in an automated synthesis module. 
The use of an automated synthesis module can potentially reduce operator radiation dose and operator 
assistance time and allows precise dosing of the components needed for the production of 123I-ioflupane. 
Radiosynthesis and purification are completed after the start of the synthesis. The production process is 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 13/23 
 
 
 
relatively fast and can thus cope with the short half-life of the radioisotope. The automated synthesis 
module runs through a computer program that opens and closes valves in the right time and order. Liquid 
is transported through the tubes by inert gas pressure. Addition and withdrawal of solutions occurs by 
syringe or cannula. The synthesis is performed automatically. Purification of the crude active substance 
123I-ioflupane is performed by semi-preparative reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography to 
reach acceptable purity of the finish product. 
Concerning the sterilisation of the finished product, for the reference medicinal product DatSCAN 
measurements of radiochemical purity were made on vials of the product autoclaved at 121°C for at least 
15 minutes. The results of these measurements proved unacceptable, with a fall in radiochemical purity of 
20% being recorded, demonstrating that 123I-ioflupane is a heat-unstable molecule. Due to non-feasibility 
of sterilisation of the finished product in its final container closure system, terminal heat sterilization has 
been replaced with a combination of aseptic filtration and aseptic processing following the EMA decision 
trees for selections of sterilisation methods. 
To ensure sterility, the manufacturing process takes place in a controlled, classified area. The automated 
synthesis module is placed inside a lead-shielded hot cell equipped with a laminar flow to achieve a grade 
A clean room environment. Sterile radionuclide vials, bulk vials, product vials, filters (for venting or 
dispensing), cannula, syringes are single-used items that are pre-sterilised. Wherever possible, sterile 
starting materials are used. Otherwise, solutions are pre-filtered before use (e.g. diluent and formulation 
buffer). Peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, acetic acid and ethanol 96% are not presumed to support 
growth or survival of microorganisms and are therefore not sterile-filtered. 
Following radiosynthesis the product is manufactured by aseptic assembly, i.e. sterile filtration (with 
relevant control of bioburden and bubble point testing), and subsequent filling of the product into pre-
sterilised containers under EU grade A environment in a grade C room. As the qualitative and quantitative 
composition of the finished product is identical to that of the reference medicinal product, sterile filtration 
has been chosen as the method of sterilisation. Due to the lipophilic character of the finished product 123I-
ioflupane, it could stick onto the membrane during final sterile membrane filtration. To ensure optimal 
sterile filtration, a sterile nylon membrane is used and the finished product solution is manufactured to 
have a suitable ethanol concentration and pH. As in-process control, the filter integrity test (bubble-point 
test) is performed after filtration. The filter integrity is tested after sterile filtration of the product only. 
There is no filter integrity test performed before sterile filtration as all filter units have been tested for 
integrity by the manufacturer. For transportation they are individually packed, and the packaging is 
qualified by the manufacturer. Therefore, the risk of damage of the filter during transportation is very low. 
In addition, the filter needs to be wetted with water prior to integrity testing. This exposes the filter to the 
risk of contamination. To minimize this risk, the filter package is opened immediately before sterile 
filtration. 
Validation of the filtration process for the finished product was performed with a non-radioactive ioflupane 
solution and the sterilizing grade filter elements as used during the manufacturing process. The following 
tests were addressed within the scope of this validation study: viability test, bacteria challenge test, 
chemical compatibility test, extraction procedure, and analysis for leachables. All the results were 
considered acceptable. 
The primary packaging is a glass vial (Type I) with a rubber stopper and a flip cap. The material complies 
with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. To show the integrity of the container closure system, the self-sealing 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 14/23 
 
 
 
test and dye ingress test according to Ph. Eur. was performed. The results demonstrate the integrity of the 
container closure system.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of 4 main steps: radiosynthesis of ioflupane (123I), purification through 
semi-preparative  HPLC;  formulation  and  dilution,  and  sterile  filtration  and  dispensing.  The  process  is 
considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
A “closed” filling technique of the vials is used by inserting the filling needle through the rubber closure of 
a closed vial, leading to a finished product with a pierced closure. Considering that the finished product 
(sterile aqueous buffered solution without a microbiological preservative) will be stored in a vial with two 
holes pierced in rubber closure for longer than one working day – the sterility of the finished product is not 
considered assured throughout its shelf-life. The container integrity of the sterile solution should be 
unharmed. The CHMP requested as Major Objection to use an “open” filling technique in a class A 
environment with a stoppering of the vials with the closure after the filling of the product solution in the 
open vial. The applicant provided justification that “closed filling” technique developed at manufacturing 
site is appropriate to consistently produce sterile medicinal products. Considering that the finished product 
manufactured with use of “closed” filling procedure (sterile aqueous buffered solution without a 
microbiological preservative) will be stored for longer than one working day in a vial with two holes pierced 
in rubber closure – the sterility of the finished product was still not considered assured throughout its 
shelf-life. Therefore, the CHMP again requested that “open” filling technique should be implemented, or in 
case that the “closed” filling technique (puncturing of the stopper) is still used that the shelf-life of the 
finished product should be reduced to not more than 24 hours after EOS (end of synthesis). The applicant 
agreed to reduce the shelf-life of the finished product to 24 hours after EOS. 
Due to the nature of this finished product, no intermediates are formed during the manufacture. The 
control of the manufacturing process is assured by the automated synthesis module, including a number of 
controls (so called virtual switches). 
For the process validation, at least 3 consecutive manufacturing runs were performed. Stability testing of 
the radiopharmaceutical product was performed for at least 3 of the manufactured batches. For those 
batches, the radiochemical stability of the radiopharmaceutical product was evaluated in addition to the 
routine quality control testing for batch release at the end of the shelf-life. 
Sterility testing requires a complete radioactive decay of the radiopharmaceutical product sample, which is  
a very long time after process validation to perform. Therefore, 3 bioburden runs were performed parallel 
to process validation. These bioburden runs were performed without radioactivity while simulating the 
routine production runs as much as possible and facilitated rapid evaluation of the microbiological purity of 
the manufacturing process. 
The validation has been successfully performed. Data from both the chemical and microbiological 
validation runs performed confirm the suitability and robustness of the synthesis module and the computer 
program for the production of 123I-ioflupane solution for injection. 
The in-process controls are adequate for this type of product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 15/23 
 
 
 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: activity 
(ionization chamber and weighing), radioactivity concentration at ART (ionization chamber), radionuclide 
identity (gamma-ray-spectrometry, HPLC), pH (Tests trips), appearance of solution (visual inspection), 
specific activity at ART (ionization chamber, HPLC), radionuclidic purity ( according to manufacturer’s 
certificate of analysis), radiochemical purity (HPLC), ethanol content (GC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), 
and sterility (Ph. Eur.).  
The applicant should assure a full release testing of the finished product without the use of analytical data 
deriving from the manufacturer of sodium iodide (123I). Control of the radionuclidic purity is required on 
the final product as described by the Ph. Eur for radiopharmaceutical products. Therefore, the CHMP 
recommended to develop and implement its own analytical method to control of the radionuclidic purity in 
final finished product (REC 002). 
Regarding the radionucledic purity, the acceptance criterion is set according to the Ph. Eur. Monograph 
“Sodium iodide (123I) solution for radiolabelling”. 
As a Ph. Eur. monograph for this radiopharmaceutical does not exist, the limits of radiochemical purity are 
set based on the Ph. Eur. monograph for 123I-containing radiopharmaceutical (Iobenguane (123I) injection). 
The specification for radioactivity due to 123I-IFP is set tighter than the limit (minimum 95%) mentioned in 
the 123I-containing radiopharmaceutical product (Iobenguane (123I) injection). The limit for end of shelf-life 
specification is lower as it is common practice for radiopharmaceuticals (e.g. labelled with 18F). The 
specification for free 123I-iodide corresponds to the limit mentioned in the 123I-containing 
radiopharmaceutical (Iobenguane (123I) injection). This limit was set based on comparability results with 
the reference medicinal product. 
A risk evaluation concerning the presence of nitrosamine impurities in the finished product has been 
performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with the “Questions and answers for 
marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/409815/2020) and the 
“Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation EC (No) 726/2004- Nitrosamine impurities 
in human medicinal products” (EMA/369136/2020). Based on the information provided it is accepted that 
no risk was identified on the possible presence of nitrosamine impurities in the active substance or the 
related finished product. Therefore, no additional control measures are deemed necessary. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for testing has 
been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Due to the short half-life of 123I (13.2 hours), the radiopharmaceutical product 123I-ioflupane is typically 
meant for immediate use and its administration to patients immediately follows the preparation and 
quality control operations. A stability study was performed with samples (10 mL) withdrawn from three 
radiopharmaceutical batches, transferred to primary packaging vials and sealed. Those vials were placed in 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 16/23 
 
 
 
an upright position and stored at room temperature in a shielded area for 35 hours after the end of 
synthesis (EOS). Samples were tested for pH, appearance of the solution and radiochemical purity. The 
analytical procedures used are stability indicating. 
A decrease in 123I-IFP by 2-3% was observed in the three tested radiopharmaceutical product batches, 
which was probably due to radioactive decay of the radiopharmaceutical over time. This was accompanied 
by an increase of free 123-I by 2% in the three tested radiopharmaceutical product batches. However, both 
parameters still met the specifications 35 hours after EOS. No unspecified radiochemical impurities were 
detected. The three tested radiopharmaceutical batches also met the specifications for the pH and 
appearance of solution 35 hours after EOS. Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 
123I-ioflupane is 7 hours from the activity time stated on the label, which corresponds to 35 hours after the 
end of synthesis.  
Due to changes in manufacturing process, quality control and product specifications, a new stability study 
was performed. This was to replace the initial stability data. Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches 
per dose strength  (2.5 mL and 5.0 mL) of finished product stored for up to  EOS + 35 h under long term 
conditions (5 ± 3°C) and for up to EOS + 35 h for the 2.5 ml vials and EOS + 48 h  under accelerated 
conditions (25 ± 2°C / 60 ± 5% RH  and 40ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. 
The batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the 
primary packaging proposed for marketing. During stability storage the samples were placed in lead 
containers. For two batches the vials were stored in upright position. For one batch the vials were stored in 
inverted position. Each product vial was only used for one stability testing and was then discarded. 
Samples were tested for pH, appearance of the solution and radiochemical purity. The analytical 
procedures used are stability indicating. 
For  2.5  mL  strength,  all  parameters  met  the  specifications  35  hours  after  EOS  when  stored  at  5±3°C,  
25±2°C / 60±5% RH, in upright position, and at 40± 2°C / 75 ± 5% RH in inverted position. 
For 5 mL strength stored at 5±3°C, 25±2°C/60±5% RH in upright position and at 40± 2°C / 75 ± 5% RH 
in inverted position, all parameters met the specifications 48 hours after EOS. 
As  mentioned  above  the  applicant  choose  to  keep a  “closed”  filling  technique of  the  vials,  therefore    the 
shelf-life of the finished product is reduced to 24 hours and the CHMP recommended to provide results of 
sterility  testing  for batches  for  the three  finished  product  batches    after the  completion of  stability  study 
(after full radioactive decay). (REC 003) 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 hours from the end of the synthesis (EOS) 
time stated on the label and storage conditions: do not store above 25°C, do not freeze and store in the 
original lead shielding as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 17/23 
 
 
 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
Several issues were requested as MOs during the evaluation, it was requested to provide information for 
123I describing in detail the quality of this material, to provide information on comparability testing results 
between the generic and reference medicinal products, and to justify the use an “open” filling technique 
for the vials. All these issues were resolved satisfactorily. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product, which pertain to provide stability testing results for TMSCT-FP for 
last testing point 24 months, to develop and implement its own analytical method to control of the 
radionuclidic purity in final finished product, and  to provide results of sterility testing for batches for the 
three finished product batches after the completion of stability study (after full radioactivity decay). These 
points are put forward and agreed as recommendations for future quality development 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1.  to provide stability testing results for TMSCT-FP for last testing point 24 months (REC 001) 
2.  to develop and implement its own analytical method to control of the radionuclidic purity in final 
finished product (REC 002) 
3.  to provide results of sterility testing for batches for the three finished product batches after the 
completion of stability study (after full radioactivity decay) (REC 003) 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of ioflupane (123I) are well known.  As this 
is widely used, well-known active substance, no further studies are required and the applicant provides 
none. Overview based on literature review is appropriate. 
2.3.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The risk of an adverse environmental impact from use of ioflupane (123I) was evaluated in the 
environmental risk assessment Phase 1. ERA expert calculated predicted environmental concentration 
(PECSURFACEWATER) of drug substance using the EMA guideline pre-screening equation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 18/23 
 
 
 
PECsurfacewater = 0,00000000017µg/L 
The lipophilicity of ioflupane has not been experimentally determined.  
logKow (LogP) calculated values range from 3.7 to 4.24. 
The applicant assumed that the proposed drug product ioflupane (123I) solution for injection is unlikely to 
represent a risk for the environment, following its prescribed usage in patients. 
The calculated PEC SURFACE WATER value is far below 0.01 μg/L and according to the guideline, the 
assessment of the potential risks to the environment for Ioflupane (123I) drug product is terminated and 
there is no need to go to phase II (Environmental fate and effects analysis). 
2.3.2.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The applicant submitted relevant data on quality aspects that might have a potential impact on the 
toxicological profile of the Celsunax product. This data meets the requirements of Annex I, Part I and II, of 
the European Dir. 2001/83/EC for generic products.  
No toxicological concern can be derived from the composition or the impurity profile of ioflupane (123I). 
The impurity profile is comparable to the reference medicinal product DaTSCAN. 
2.3.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to accept the non-clinical documentation of Celsunax solution for injection. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The applicant requested scientific advice from EMA to clarify whether the guideline on the investigation of 
bioequivalence is valid for a generic radiopharmaceutical intended for diagnostic purposes 
(EMA/CHMP/SAWP/302444/2018; Procedure No.: EMEA/H/SA/3820/1/2018/SME/I). 
Ioflupane (123I), solution for injection has an identical qualitative and quantitative composition compared 
to the approved reference medicinal product DaTSCAN™. Since ioflupane (123I) is a chemical entity, the 
CHMP considered ioflupane (123I), solution for injection to fall within the scope of the guideline on the 
investigation of bioequivalence. The opinion of QWP and Radiopharmaceutical WP of the CHMP was also 
requested. It was agreed that both the reference product and the present product share identical “hot and 
cold” forms of ioflupane in the composition. If the ratio of “hot” and “cold” form is the same, the specific 
radioactivity should be the same and the effect is expected to be the same. No additional in vivo studies in 
view of potentially different in use and in vivo stability of the generic are requested. 
Following the scientific advice given by the CHMP, the applicant did not conduct new non-clinical or clinical 
trials with the active substance ioflupane (123I). 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 19/23 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No bioequivalence study was submitted to support the application and no study is required according to 
the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence as the test product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product. The 
excipients of both products are qualitatively the same for both formulations. All excipients comply with Ph. 
Eur. Monographs. 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The clinical overview of the clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety has been provided and is adequate. 
Celsunax is to be administered as an aqueous solution for injection for intravenous use containing the 
same active substance in the same concentrations as the currently authorised originator product. 
According to the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1/ Corr** 
Appendix II) no bioequivalence studies are required for intravenously administered aqueous solutions if 
the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active 
substance as the currently approved product. 
A biowaiver has been requested since the proposed medicinal product has an identical qualitative and 
quantitative composition in the active substance available at the reference time compared to the approved 
reference medicinal product 74 MBq/mL of ioflupane (123I) and the same pharmaceutical form and route of 
administration as an aqueous solution for injection for intravenous use are applied for. The excipients of 
the proposed generic medicinal product are identical to the reference product DaTSCAN. 
Celsunax is considered essentially similar to DaTSCAN (GE Healthcare Limited). 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical aspects 
Celsunax is considered essentially similar to DaTSCAN (GE Healthcare Limited). There are no objections to 
the approval of Celsunax from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
The PRAC and CHMP agreed that routine pharmacovigilance activities, including collection and reporting of 
adverse reactions, and signal detection are considered sufficient to monitor the safety of the medicinal 
product in the licensed indication. No additional pharmacovigilance activities are deemed necessary.  
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 20/23 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
The PRAC and CHMP agreed that routine risk minimisation measures are considered sufficient. The safety 
information in the PI is aligned with the originator product.  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.4 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
3.1.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Celsunax is positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Celsunax is favourable in the following indication: 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 21/23 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Celsunax is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
- 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonian syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. 
Celsunax is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive 
supranuclear palsy. 
- 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. 
Celsunax is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease dementia. 
The CHMP therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/323721/2021 
Page 23/23 
 
 
 
 
