Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
According  to  UNAIDS,  around  40  million  people  are  presently  living  with  HIV.  The  estimated 
number of AIDS-related deaths was 3 million during 2006, and around 5 million people were newly 
infected.  The  number  of  people  with  HIV  in  central/western  Europe  and  North  America  is  close  to 
2 million. 
Current treatment options consist of four different mechanistic classes of compounds: 
−  NRTIs  (nucleoside/nucleotide  reverse 
transcriptase 
inhibitors) 
inhibiting 
the  reverse 
transcriptase (RT) of HIV by structural similarity with the substrate of RT. 
−  NNRTIs  (non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors)  inhibiting  the  reverse  transcriptase 
of HIV without being nucleoside analogues. 
−  PIs  (protease  inhibitors)  inhibiting  the  HIV  protease,  which  is  an  enzyme  required  for  the 
assembly and release of mature HIV particles from the cell after the replication cycle. 
−  Entry  inhibitors  preventing  the  entry  of  HIV  into  the  cell  hence  inhibiting  the  infection  of 
these cells; currently there is only one compound authorised which is a fusion inhibitor. 
Regimens  containing  compounds  from  one  or  more  of  these  classes  are  required  for  building 
combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). The choice of the combination regimens depends on the 
status of the patient particularly in terms of plasma vial load (HIV RNA), CD4 cell counts, previous 
treatment(s), prior relapse and intolerance to treatment. 
The long-term use of all these products is however hampered by different factors such as emergence of 
resistance, potential toxicity and in some cases inconvenient dosing schedules or formulations. Further 
therapeutic agents are therefore needed, particularly in patients who have failed their therapy. 
CELSENTRI, which contains maraviroc, is a CCR5-antagonist preventing CCR5-tropic HIV-1 from 
entering cells. It has been developed for treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients who have only 
CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable.  
The rationale behind the use of CCR5-antagonists in treatment of HIV infection is based on the fact 
that  HIV  requires  the  binding  to  both  the  CD4-receptor  and  a  co-receptor  to  enter  a  cell.  The  two 
relevant co-receptors are CCR5 and CXCR4. HIV can be either CCR5-tropic (“R5-virus”) or CXCR4-
tropic (“X4-virus”), so called tropism. Virus isolates replicating on both CCR5- and CXCR4-positive 
cells may do so either because they contain a mixture of R5- and X4-virus, or they use both CCR5 and 
CXCR4 (so  called dual-tropic). If the CCR5 receptor is blocked by CCR5-antagonists, CCR5-tropic 
HIV cannot enter the cell.  
A so-called full application has been submitted for the marketing authorisation. The assessment was 
initially  made  under  accelerated  review  based  on  a  request  by  the  applicant;  however  the  timetable 
was reverted to “normal” centralised timetable during the procedure.  
CELSENTRI  is  available  in  film-coated  tablets  containing  150 mg  or  300 mg  maraviroc;  the 
recommended  dose  is  150 mg,  300 mg  or  600 mg  twice  daily  depending  on  interactions  with  co-
administered antiretroviral therapy and other medicinal products. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The approved indication is: 
“CELSENTRI, in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products, is indicated for 
treatment-experienced adult patients infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable (see 
section 4.2). 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1).” 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Celsentri  is  presented  as  immediate  release  film-coated  tablets  containing  150 mg  or  300 mg  of 
maraviroc (active  substance).  The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  Celsentri  are  those  typically 
used  in  tablet  formulations.  The  tablet  core  contains  cellulose  microcrystalline,  calcium  hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, sodium starch glycollate and magnesium stearate. The film-coat is a conventional 
Opadry II Blue  film-coating  system  which  consists  of  polyvinyl  alcohol,  titanium  dioxide,  talc, 
macrogol 3350, soya lecithin and indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
Celsentri 150 and 300mg film-coated tablets are blue, biconvex and oval, debossed with “Pfizer” on 
one side and “MVC 150” or “MVC 300” on the other. The tablets are packed in HDPE bottles (with 
PP closure) or PVC/Al blisters. 
Active Substance 
Maraviroc is chemically designated as 4,4-difluoro-N-[(1S)-3-[(3-exo)-3-[3-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl)-
4H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl]-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-8-yl]-1-phenylpropyl]-cyclohexanecarboxamide (CAS) 
or 4,4-difluoro-N-{(1S)-3-[exo-3-(3-isopropyl-5-methyl-4H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl)-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-
8-yl]-1-phenylpropyl}cyclohexanecarboxamide (IUPAC). The structure of maraviroc is presented in 
figure 1. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Chemical structure of maraviroc 
Maraviroc  is  white  to  pale  coloured,  non-hygroscopic  solid  which  is  highly  soluble  across  the 
physiological pH range. According to the biopharmaceutical classification system (BCS) maraviroc is 
clasified as a high solubility compound. Its pKa are 3.3 and 7.9 corresponding to the protonation of the 
1,2,4-triazole ring and tropane nitrogen, respectively. Maraviroc has one chiral centre, which has the S 
absolute configuration. It is also an exo isomer with respect to the configuration on the tropane unit. 
Two crystalline forms, A and B and an amorphous form of maraviroc are known.  
Form  B  is  the  thermodynamically  more  stable  and  is  the  only  form  used  in  the  formulation.  The 
amorphous form is metastable with respect to Form B.  
•  Manufacture 
A four-stage synthetic process has been well-described and the critical parameters and accompanying 
in process controls have been defined. Specifications and control methods of the starting materials are 
satisfactory.  Three  intermediates  are  isolated  throughout  the  synthesis.  Possible  impurities  in  drug 
substance have been characterized with respect to their origin, occurrence, detection and removal. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  developed  by  performing  risk  assessment.  Potential  impact  of 
process parameters on the quality of the drug substance has been assessed. The concept of Design of 
Experiments (DoE), including computer modelling, have been utilised to establish a so called Design 
Space (DS) for the manufacture of the drug substance. The selected ranges for synthesis parameters 
(“Proven Acceptable Ranges” (PAR)) have been established based on evaluation on the impact on the 
impurity profiles so as to reach acceptable impurity levels for each of the manufacturing steps. 
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  the  drug  substance  routinely  produced  by  the  defined 
method of synthesis has been provided by elemental analysis and spectroscopic methods as UV, IR, 
MS  and  NMR  (13C,  1H  and  19F).  The  crystal  structure  has  been  confirmed  by  crystal  single  X-ray 
diffraction.  An  assessment  of  the  solid  state  forms  has  also  been  conducted.  Two  crystalline 
polymorphs (Forms A and B) and an amorphous form of maraviroc have been identified. Only form B 
is reproducibly produced by the proposed commercial synthetic route. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  physical  appearance,  identification  (FT-IR  and 
HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  residue  on  ignition,  heavy  metals,  palladium  content 
(ASA), water content (Karl Fisher), residual organic solvents (GC). 
Analytical  control  methods  have  been  validated  with  regard  to  relevant  guidelines  and  include 
specificity, linearity and precision, limit of quantification, accuracy and robustness as appropriate.   
Data was provided on 26 batches of maraviroc all of which were manufactured using the commercial 
route. All the batches complied with the requirements in the active substance specification. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability 
Stability studies have been performed on three batches of drug substance manufactured at 10 % of the 
proposed maximum commercial batch size. Data have been provided for 12 months at 25°C/60 % RH 
(long  term  storage  conditions)  and  30°C/65 % RH (immediate  conditions)  and  6 months  at 
40°C/75 % RH (accelerated conditions). Additionally, data from photostability study, shorter periods 
under stressed storage conditions (25°C/80 % RH and 50°C/20 % RH) and forced degradations studies 
(as e.g. acidic, alkaline, oxidative elevated temperature and humidity) were also presented.  
The stability studies showed that the active substance is stable and confirm the proposed re-test period.  
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  focus  has  been  on  the  development  of  immediate  release  tablets  disintegrating  and  dissolving 
rapidly under physiological conditions in the stomach. The concepts of risk based analysis have been 
used  during  development  in  order  to  identify  critical  parameters  and  attributes  associated  with  the 
processing of tablets. For the manufacturing process a so called “Design Space” has been established. 
Development of the manufacturing process has been divided into four “focus areas”, (1) pre-blend, (2) 
granulation,  (3)  compression  and  (4)  film-coating.  A  cause-and-effect  analysis  identified  the 
parameters  with  highest  possibility  to  affect  product  quality  (potency,  uniformity,  dissolution  and 
appearance).  The  evaluation  performed  resulted  in  design  space,  within  which  tablets  of  acceptable 
quality can be produced. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  maraviroc  film-coated  tablets  are  of  human  or 
animal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Maraviroc  150 mg  and  300 mg  film-coated  tablets  are  made  from  a  common  granulation procedure. 
The  process  consisted  of  blending,  screening,  blending,  and  blend  lubrication,  to  generate  a 
homogenous lubricated mixture of the drug substance and excipients, followed by roller compaction 
and  milling,  to  produce  granules  which  are  then  blended  and  lubricated  prior  to  tablet  compression. 
Finally the tablet cores are film-coated with a blue film-coat. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specification is standard for tablets, and contains tests with suitable limits for identity of 
active  substance  (UV  and  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  dissolution  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (HPLC), 
impurities (HPLC) and skip-test for microbial bioburden and excipients identification.  
Batch analytical results for 45 batches indicate satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the agreed 
specification. 
All  methods  have  been  satisfactorily  validated.  The  analytical  methods  and  acceptance  criteria  have 
been  established  to  confirm  the  identity,  purity  and  quality  of  the  drug  product  and  to  ensure  its 
suitability for their intended use. 
•  Stability of the Product 
In accordance with ICH guideline Q1A (R2), a stability program  consisting of one batch of 150 mg 
strength maraviroc tablets, and three batches of 75 mg and 300 mg strength maraviroc tablets was set 
up on stability.  The 75 mg strength tablets have been used for bracketing the 150 mg strength tablets. 
All  three  strengths  were  manufactured  from  the  common  blend  formulation  and  were  manufactured 
and packaged at the commercial manufacturing site.  
©EMEA 2007 
4/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  stability  program  for  the  seven  batches  of  tablets  has  been  completed  at  25°C/60 % RH  and 
30°C/65 %  RH  through  12  months  and  40°C/75 %  RH  through  6  months.  In  addition  one  batch  of 
each  strength  of  tablets  was  placed  on  a  ‘stressed  conditions’  stability  program,  evaluated  at 
25°C/80 % RH  and  50°C/20 % RH  through  3  months.  In  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines  Q1B  one 
batch of each strength was also exposed to the photostability conditions described for option 2. 
Based on the stability data the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions, as defined in the SPC, are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  and  finished  product  have  been  adequately  described.  Excipients  used  in  the 
formulation of the finished product and the manufacturing process selected are typical for tablets. The 
results  of  the  tests  indicate  that  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  can  be  reproducibly 
manufactured and therefore the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue which have no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve it as a Follow-up Measure after the opinion, within an agreed time-frame. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Maraviroc  is  a  new  compound  for  combined  antiretroviral  therapy  and  acts  as  CCR5-antagonist.  It 
blocks the host cell co-receptor CCR5 that is utilized by CCR5-tropic viral strains in the process of 
viral  entry  and  infection,  which  involves  several  steps  including  binding  of  the  viral  envelope 
glycoprotein  gp120  to  the  cellular  CD4  receptor,  the  subsequent  engagement  with  CCR5,  and 
membrane fusion between HIV and host cell. 
The non-clinical programme consisted of a range of pharmacological and toxicological studies in line 
with  current  recommendations  and  under  consideration  of  European  and  international  guidelines  as 
appropriate. 
Pivotal studies on pharmacology (safety) and toxicology were conducted in compliance with GLP and 
quality assurance statements were provided. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The  mode  of  action  related  to  the  antiviral  activity  and  resistance  aspects  is  also  discussed  in  the 
section “Clinical Aspects”.  
Primary pharmacology related to the antiviral mode of action 
The mode of action of maraviroc was studied at three levels in in vitro studies. a) Characteristics of 
receptor  binding  of  maraviroc  (3H-labelled)  to  recombinant  human  CCR5  using  HEK-293  cell 
membrane preparation; b) Inhibition of viral protein attachment and fusion; c) viral replication assays. 
The affinity of maraviroc for the human CCR5 was reflected in a KD 0.86 nM, which is comparable to 
that for the macaque CCR5 receptor (KD 1.36 nM). The non-competitive binding to the CCR5 receptor 
leading  to  inhibition  of  viral  protein  attachment  and  fusion  was  characterised  in  two  assays 
(gp120/CD4 binding assay and gp160-CCR5 mediated cell-cell fusion assay) by an IC50 of 11 nM and 
0.22 nM, respectively. Inhibition of viral replication against 43 primary isolates in PBMC culture was 
expressed by a geometric mean of the IC90 of 2 nM. 
©EMEA 2007 
5/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  two  major  human  metabolites,  a  secondary  amine  product  of  N-dealkylation  (UK-408,027)  and 
the carboxylic acid (UK-463,977) were tested for inhibition of gp160-CCR5 mediated cell-cell fusion 
(IC50>10  µM)  and  a  general  receptor/ion  channel/enzyme  screen  did  not  indicate  any  biologically 
relevant secondary activity. 
Primary pharmacology not related to the antiviral mode of action 
Studies  using  site  directed  mutagenesis  were  consistent  with  that  the  putative  binding  site  for 
maraviroc  on  CCR5  included  interactions  with  amino  acids  within  the  transmembrane  region  of  the 
receptor.  Sequence  comparisons  of  human  data  at  a  radius  of  2Å  from  the  perimeter  at  the  putative 
binding  site,  indicated  a  94.4%  identity  for  the  macaque  and  a  range  from  61.1%  (rabbit)  to  77.8% 
(dog) in other species. The kinetics of maraviroc at the macaque CCR5 (KD of 1.36 nM and an IC50 of 
17.5  nM  for  inhibition  of  MIP-1β  binding)  were  overall  similar  to  its  interactions  with  the  human 
receptor except for a dissociation half-life of 1.5 h to compare with 16 h for the human receptor. Using 
homogenates of HEK-293 cells expressing dog and rat recombinant CCR5 it was shown that inhibition 
reached 38.7 and 33.3%, respectively at concentrations of 10 µM maraviroc. 
Studies on the potential to block binding of endogenous human CCR5 ligands and to interfere with the 
functional  activity  of  the  receptor  were  conducted.  Receptor  binding  studies  reported  IC50  values  of 
maraviroc in the range of 3.3 to 7.2 nM for inhibition of binding of MIP-1α, MIP-1β and RANTES 
and no intrinsic agonist activity. Functional activities as reflected in assays of calcium flux and cAMP 
levels were inhibited with IC50 values in the 4-30 nM.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The selectivity profile of maraviroc with respect to chemokine receptors CCR1 to CXCR4 (CCR6 and 
CXCR3  not  tested)  representing  an  amino  acid  identity  with  CCR5  from  68.5%  (CCR2)  to  31.5% 
(CXCR4) assayed in different in vitro systems showed no significant inhibitory activity of maraviroc 
up  to  10 µM  or  25 µM.  In  assays  for  selectivity  in  human  immune  system  functions  that  may  also 
involve multiple signal transduction, no relevant activity of maraviroc up to 10 µM was reported with 
the exception of interleukin-4 induced IgE synthesis in isolated human blood lymphocytes from one 
donor.  Although  human  homozygous  for  ∆32  CCR5  have  not  been  associated  with  any  particular 
immune  pathology  there  are  reports  of  subtle  physiological  effects  of  altered  gene  expression.  In 
CCR5  knockout  mice  defective  clearance  of  infectious  agents  has  been  reported  as  well  as  reduced 
corneal neovascularisation and mice may have increased levels of CD4+ and NK.1.1+ in the colonic 
lamina  propria  and  increased  IL-4,  IL-5  and  IL-10  expression  but  decreased  IFN-γ.  No  assays  for 
potential to interfere with activity/function of chloride channels or IL-5 pathways were available in the 
pharmacology screening programme. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The potential of maraviroc to interfere with major physiological systems was investigated in a series 
of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies.  In  most  studies  maraviroc  was  tested  at  concentrations  of  0.1 µM  to 
100 µM  and  doses  estimated  to  provide  unbound  plasma  levels  of  154  ng/ml  (300  nM).  Standard 
radioligand techniques were used. 
In  in  vitro  tests  for  potential  affinity  of  maraviroc  on  physiological  receptors,  ion  channels  and 
enzymes,  a  moderate  inhibitory  activity  for  human  µ  opioid  (mean  IC50 294  nM),  human  δ  opioid 
(48% inhibition at 10 µM), rat non-selective muscarinic receptors (39-47% inhibition at 10 µM) and 
the  human  α2A  adrenergic  receptor  (52%  inhibition  at  10  µM)  was  evident.  Functional  adrenergic 
activity  was  not  affected.  In  vitro  studies  were  not  indicative  of  maraviroc  having  an  affinity  for  a 
range of receptors responsible for binding vasoactive peptides (angiotensin II, atrial naturietic peptide, 
bradykinin-2, endothelins A&B, ghrelin, thromboxane, urotensin-1, vasopressin-1A). 
In studies in vitro in isolated tissue and whole cell a 22% stimulation of functional activity of human µ 
receptor at 10 µM was reported. In other functional assays indicative of muscarinic activity, maraviroc 
©EMEA 2007 
6/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was tested up to 1 µM with no effect. Against human recombinant HERG (Ikr) a 43% inhibition was 
observed at 10 µM and in a patch clamp assay at the same concentration 19% inhibition was achieved. 
In a dog Purkinje fiber assay, prolongation of ADP90 occurred at 10 µM and was initially ascribed to 
an impurity not further detailed. A second study was negative up to 1 µM. No early afterpolarizations 
were reported.  
The activity of maraviroc at adrenergic receptors was further evaluated as a possible mechanism for 
postural hypotension seen in clinical trials. Maraviroc caused dilation of isolated canine venous tissue 
that had been constricted with phenylephrine, but not potassium chloride; some in vitro rat and human 
data  is  not  consistent  with  this  finding.  In  canine  saphenous  veins  maraviroc  functioned  as  a 
competitive antagonist at alpha adrenergic receptors, but no effect was observed in equivalent human 
preparations.  In  human  vasculature  MIP-1β  from  0.1  µM  caused  a  concentration  dependent 
vasoconstriction  of  isolated  endothelium  denuded  human  saphenous  vein  tissues  with  a  pEC50 
7.7±0.17. Preincubation for 30 minutes with 300 nM maraviroc had no effect, but in the presence of 
maraviroc,  MIP-1β  failed  to  cause  contractions.  In  an  in  vivo  postural  challenge  study  in  dog, 
maraviroc reduced systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure response possibly due to antagonism at 
the alpha adrenergic receptor. Maraviroc, at levels giving free plasma concentration from 1030 to 2410 
nM had “subtle effects” on control of blood pressure during postural challenge.  
In vivo safety pharmacology studies included tests for potential to interfere with CNS, cardiovascular, 
respiratory and renal systems (Table 1). No relevant effects were reported, but doses selected for these 
studies were overall rather low. At 2000 mg/kg in rats, adverse effects consisted of decreased activity, 
piloerection, salivation, wet chin, irregular and laboured breathing, jaw movement and vocalisation. At 
low  oral  doses  (corresponding  to  Cmax  levels  below  expected  clinical)  maraviroc  had  no  effect  on 
haemodynamic or ECG parameters in the conscious dog. In the restrained dog, intravenous doses of 
maraviroc  caused  slight  reduction  in  systolic  and  increase  in  diastolic  blood  pressure  while  pulse 
pressure was reduced. Intravenous doses of 1 mg/kg in rat produced decreases in blood pressure and 
heart rate. With the exception of rat renal study, male animals only, were used.  
Table 1 
Study System 
Maximum Tolerated Dose 
General pharmacological effects of maraviroc 
Species (n) 
Rat (M) (2), PO  1000, 2000 
Dose (mg/kg)  Result/Observation 
1000 mg/kg: Salivation, transient ↑ respiration,  
↓activity (normal at 30 min) Unbound Cmax 
5.0 µM, total Cmax 10.1 µM. 
2000 mg/kg: Piloerection, transient ↑ 
respiration, ↓activity (normal at 45 min). 
Marked salivation, respiratory distress for 1 h 
(in 1 rat 2h postdose). 
No effect. 
1, 3, 10 
CNS- pentobarbitone 
induced sleeping time 
CNS motor coordination 
(accelerating rotarod) 
Renal excretion of fluid 
and electrolytes 
Respiratory system 
Mouse (M) 
(20), PO 
Mouse (M) (12-
20), PO 
Rat (F) (12), 
PO 
Rat (M) (4), IV 
1 
1, 3, 10 
No effect. 
10, 20, 60 
No effect. 
0.05, 0.15, 
CVS (haemodynamics,  
electrocardiogram) 
0.5, 1.5 
CG/009/00, CG/005/01, CG/002/01, CG/004/01, CG/001/01, CG/003/00, CG/008/00 (all studies GLP) 
Dog (M), 
Beagle (4) PO 
No effect-arterial blood pH, pO2 and pCO2. 
Mean arterial pressure, heart rate ↓ 10 min 
postdose 
No effect. Mean unbound Cmax=168 nM (86 
ng/ml) Total 464 nM (238 ng/ml) 
In summary, with respect to the safety pharmacology data no relevant effects were seen at low doses 
on the renal, respiratory and central nervous system, however the following aspects are of note: 
−  Non-clinical  tests  showed  that  maraviroc  has  potential  to  inhibit  or  block  the  Ikr  current  and 
prolong  cardiac  repolarisation  hence  exhibiting  a  potential  to  cause  QT  prolongation.  Clinically 
significant  QT  interval  prolongation  was  not  reported  in  healthy  subjects  exposed  to  maraviroc. 
Direct  comparisons/extrapolations  of  in  vitro  concentrations  to  therapeutic  plasma  levels  with 
©EMEA 2007 
7/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
calculations of “safety factors” may not always be meaningful, but literature data indicate that a 
factor of 30 for in vitro/in vivo concentrations can be interpreted as reassuring. The in vitro results 
could thus indicate a lower level of concern for potential cardiovascular effects. 
−  The mechanism of action involved in the postural hypotension seen in the clinical studies is not 
clear,  but  CCR5  mediated  effects  on  vasculature  was  presented  as  a  possible  hypothesis.  While 
activity at adrenergic receptors also could be involved in these effects, data is not consistent with 
maraviroc  causing  dilatation  in  phenylephrine  preconstricted  canine  saphenous  vein  tissue,  but 
having  no  effect  in  the  equivalent  human  preparation.  The  antagonism  by  maraviroc  of  MIP-1β 
mediated  contractile  response  suggests  a  functional  role  of  CCR5  ligand-receptor  system  in 
vascular  function  in  human  saphenous  veins.  Published  data  indicate  a  role  of  chemokines  and 
their receptors in the regulation of blood pressure. 
−  The primary and secondary pharmacology studies provide extremely limited data on the potential 
for any gender dependent interactions of maraviroc with receptor. In mouse systems, estrogen has 
been discussed in regulation of CCR gene expression and enhanced chemotactic response to MIP-
1β.  The  consequences  of  partial  and  altered  signalling  via  CCR5  (or  other  CCRs)  may  however 
not be directly comparable with genetic CCR5 (CCRs) variations.  
−  No  study  on  gastrointestinal  tolerance  was  conducted,  however  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies 
show a potential for local effects. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
For drug interactions see clinical section 4. Additive or slightly synergistic interactions were reported 
with  compounds  of  the  various  classes  used  for  CART.  There  is  no  evidence  that  maraviroc 
antagonises  the  antiviral  activity  of  these  compounds.  Specific  non-clinical  studies  to  investigate 
pharmacodynamic drug interactions have not been conducted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of maraviroc have been evaluated in vitro as well as in several species (mouse, 
rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  cynomolgus  monkey)  that  were  also  used  in  the  non-clinical  pharmacology  and 
toxicology  programme.  Mostly  male  animals  were  used  except  for  dog  and  rat.  In  vivo  studies 
comprised the investigation of single and multiple dosing, respectively. 
Validated  chromatographic  (HPLC)  methods  with  mass  spectrometric  detection  of  maraviroc  and 
relevant metabolites in biological fluids were used. In tissue distribution studies as well as in studies 
on metabolism, three forms of radiolabelled marviroc were used: (3H), single and dual labelled carbon-
14  compound.  Metabolic  loss  of  the  (3H)  label  occurred  and  the  carbon-14  studies  were  considered 
definitive. 
Absorption/Bioavailability 
In  rat  bioavailability  was  low  at  5%  while  in  dog  corresponding  value  was  around  40%.  Generally 
there was no difference in plasma exposure in male and female animals, but at lower doses in mouse 
and rat studies, females appeared to have up to two-times the exposure of males. In mouse  and dog 
there was a dose-proportional increase in exposure after multiple doses while in the rat, a proportional 
increase in Cmax, but a supra-proportional increase in AUC (increase by 1.4 to 2.2 with duration of 
study from day 0 to day 181) was recorded. In monkey increases in AUC and Cmax were greater than 
dose.  
Distribution 
Ex  vivo  plasma  protein  binding  by  equilibrium  dialysis  and  using  (14C)-maraviroc  indicated  plasma 
protein binding ranged from 48.4% to 75.5% in various species (58.0%, 51.0%, 66.0%, 63.7%, 48.4% 
and 75.5% for mouse, rat, rabbit, dog, cynomolgus monkey and human, respectively). Moderate and 
similar  binding  to  albumen  and  α-1-acid  glycoprotein  (56  and  69%)  was  recorded.  Low partitioning 
into  human  red  blood  cells  with  a  mean  blood  plasma  ratio  of  0.59  was  noted.  In  some 
pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacology  studies  (3H)-maraviroc  was  used  and  while  no  major  effect  of 
©EMEA 2007 
8/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
labelling at this position was identified (66%, 46%, 50%, 52% and 78% for mouse, rat, rabbit, dog and 
human, respectively) studies using (14C)-maraviroc  were  considered definitive. The  mean proportion 
of drug bound was similar across the concentration range of 1, 30 and 1000 ng/ml. 
Maraviroc is a substrate for P-gp as indicated in in vitro studies and Km and Vmax values of 37±6.4 
µM  and  55±3.4  nmol/mg/min  were  recorded.  Studies  on  the  permeability  of  14C-maraviroc  across 
Caco-2  cell  monolayers  in  the  presence  of  P-gp  and  MRP  inhibitors  showed  reduction  of  efflux  by 
verapamil, MK-571 (an MRP inhibitor), ketaconazole, ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir and indinavir. 
In tissue distribution studies in pigmented male Lister Hooded rats given 3 mg/kg of (3H)-maraviroc 
intravenously,  binding  to  melanin  in  the  eye  was  evident.  Highest  concentrations  were  detected  in 
bladder, prostate gland, kidney, small intestine wall and contents, liver and seminal vesicles.  
The  distribution  to  pharmacologically  relevant  gut  associated  lymphoid  tissues  was  studied  in  male 
Long-Evans  rats.  Radiolabel  from  (14C)-maraviroc  was  detected  in  lymph  nodes  including  gut-
associated lymphoid tissues, axial and sublingual lymph nodes, gastro-intestinal tract mucosa, spleen, 
liver,  kidney,  mesenteric  adipose  and  vena  cava  blood  1  hour  postdose.  Highest  concentration  was 
found in spleen, liver and intestinal mucosa.  
Limited penetration into brain occurred with CSF to plasma ratios of 0.01 for unbound drug.  
Metabolism/Excretion 
Metabolites  were  identified  from  excretion  studies  using  (14C)-maraviroc  and  mass  spectrometry 
combined  with  chromatographic  retention  time  as  well  as  NMR.  Preliminary  studies  used  (3H)-
maraviroc resulting in some metabolic loss of the (3H)-label. 
Metabolism  studies  showed  unchanged  maraviroc  as  the  major  excreted  component,  accounting  for 
33-39  (human  male  volunteer,  male  mouse)  to  58-65%  (male  cynomolgus  monkey,  male  TgrasH2 
mouse) of dose. A secondary amine (UK-408,027) produced by N-dealkylation accounted for 3 to 9% 
in various species and in addition, products of (mono-) oxidation and some other minor components 
were detected. In urine, an acid metabolite UK-463,977 accounted for 2-3 (mouse, human) to <0.1% 
(rat).  In  the  rabbit  (female)  unchanged  maraviroc  was  the  major  excreted  component  (78%)  and  in 
addition,  the  secondary  amine  (UK-408,027),  and  a  product  of  mono-oxidation  (UK-437,719) 
accounting for 6 and 2%, were identified.  
Circulating components in plasma consisted primarily of unchanged maraviroc, ranging from 40-42% 
(rabbit, human) to 67-74% (rat, Tgras mouse). Major metabolites included the secondary amine UK-
408,027, accounting for 6-9% in mouse and rat to 12-22% in rabbit, monkey and human. In rat a major 
metabolite  was  an  uncharacterised  polar  metabolite  for  23%.  In  female  rabbit  the  major  metabolite 
(38%) remained unidentified. The acid metabolite UK-463,977 was detected at levels from 2.48 ng/ml 
(Cmax)  in  rat,  to  45.2  ng/ml  in  monkey  and  37.3  ng/ml  in  humans.  In  addition  several  products  of 
mono-oxidation and other minor components were detected in all species at levels of 1-11%.  
The  in  vitro  metabolism  of  maraviroc  was  studied  in  hepatic  microsomes  from  human  livers  and  in 
microsomes  prepared  from  cells  expressing  individual  cytochrome  P450  enzymes.  In  microsomes 
prepared  from  cells  expressing  individual  cytochrome  P450  enzymes,  it  was  only  possible  to  detect 
metabolism in incubations with CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. In studies using human hepatic microsomes 
the  disappearance  half-life  of  maraviroc  was  extended  in  the  presence  of  ketoconazole,  a  specific 
CYP3A4 inhibitor (13.1 min to 79 min). The use of recombinant enzyme systems confirmed a role for 
CYP3A4 (and its orthologue, CYP3A5) in the metabolism of maraviroc, and showed that neither of 
the polymorphic P450 enzymes CYP2C19 or CYP2D6 contribute significantly to its metabolism. 
The potential for maraviroc to inhibit the activity of five drug metabolising cytochrome P450 enzymes 
(CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) was studied using recombinant enzymes and 
human  liver  microsomes.  In  the  recombinant  enzyme  systems,  maraviroc  did  not  inhibit  any  of  the 
cytochrome P450 enzymes investigated except for weak inhibition of CYP2D6 (IC50 87+2 µM). The 
©EMEA 2007 
9/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potential for maraviroc to inhibit the activity of seven drug metabolising cytochrome P450 enzymes 
(CYP1A2,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C8,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A4)  has  been  studied  in 
human  liver  microsomes.  Maraviroc  was  demonstrated  to  be  a  weak  inhibitor  of  cytochrome  P450 
activity with estimated IC50 values of >30µM against each enzyme investigated.  
Maraviroc  was  mainly  excreted  in  faeces  (76-95%)  in  all  species.  It  is  secreted  into  rat  milk  and  in 
lactating  female  rats;  radioactivity  was  detected  in  milk  at  all  time  points  and  86%  of  the  label 
excreted was unchanged compound while the secondary amine accounted for 4%. Milk:plasma ratios 
of 2.5 to 2.7 were recorded. 
Toxicology 
The toxicity of single and repeated doses of maraviroc was studied in mouse, rat, dog and cynomolgus 
monkey. In terms of metabolism and general pharmacokinetics these species can all be considered as 
useful models for humans; however considering pharmacology at the target receptor level the monkey 
is closest to the human.  
Doses used in the studies ranged from 5 to 1500 mg/kg/day with dog being the most sensitive species 
and rodents and monkey tolerating high doses. One 6 month rat study included a 3 month reversibility 
period. Administration was once a day except in monkey where doses were administered twice a day 
to compensate for a faster receptor dissociation rate in monkey compared with human (t1/2off 1.5 h and 
16 h, respectively). 
The  lots  used  in  toxicology  studies  generally  contained  impurities  representative  of  clinical  batches 
and overall covered the proposed specification limits. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  has  been  investigated  in  three  GLP  studies  in  mouse  and  rat.  Oral  doses  up  to 
2000 mg/kg  were  well  tolerated  in  mouse  and  rat  while  a  single  intravenous  dose  of  200  mg/kg 
resulted in deaths within 5 minutes. 
Overall, maraviroc had low acute toxicity. At high intravenous doses deaths occurred within minutes 
possibly suggesting acute cardiovascular effects. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Pivotal GLP toxicity studies after repeated doses were conducted over 3 months in the mouse (doses 
of 200-750 mg/kg), 6 months in the rat (doses of 30-900 mg/kg), 6 months in the dog (doses of 5-40 
mg/kg) and 9 months in the cynomolgus monkey (doses of 40-400 mg/kg). At the high dose in mouse, 
rat,  dog  and  monkey  the  systemic  exposure  levels  achieved  corresponded  to  approximately  x50-80, 
x32-44,  x6-7  and  x29-30  the  expected  clinical  exposure,  respectively.  Corresponding  values  at  the 
lowest doses used were x4-5, <1, <1 and <1.  
Mouse 
In the five oral mouse studies few effects of toxicological significance were reported. Histopathology 
indicated degeneration of superficial epithelium in cecum, probably related to local effects. Sporadic 
increases  in  cholesterol,  AST,  ALT,  neutrophils  and  fibrinogen  at  doses  of  2000  mg/kg/day  were 
noted.  
No toxicologically significant effects were evident in the 3 month dose range-finding study in mouse. 
Females exhibited a dose related increase in body weight. At the high dose there was a slight increase 
in absolute and relative kidney weights. There was a 10 to 50% increase in absolute and relative ovary 
weights  but  as  the  range  for  ovary  weights  were  similar  in  all  groups  and  no  correlation  to  a 
histopathological  finding  could  be  recorded  and  the  changes  were  considered  fortuitous.  The 
©EMEA 2007 
10/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compound  was  administered  in  0.5%  methylcellulose  and  0.1%  Tween  80  by  oral  gavage.  Plasma 
levels of drug were determined in parallel groups of 12 mice/sex/dose level. 
Rat 
Three repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted in rats (2 oral by gavage, 1 parenteral). 
In the 6 month oral toxicity study a 13 week reversibility period was incorporated and satellite animals 
(5/sex/group)  were  included  for  blood  sampling.  In  addition  to  standard  parameters  monitored,  the 
study  incorporated  ophthalmological  examinations,  examinations  for  postdosing  hypersalivation  and 
T3,  T4  and  TSH  determinations.  Bone  marrow  smears  were  prepared  at  necropsy.  Three  deaths 
occurred during the study, none was considered treatment related. Decreased body weight, salivation 
and increased water consumption was evident; this could reflect the compounds activity at muscarinic 
receptors and/or blockade of α2-adrenoceptors. The liver was the primary target organ for toxicity in 
rat  and  hepatic  effects  included  increased  cholesterol,  AST,  ALT,  decreased  bilirubin  and 
triglycerides, possibly indicative of interference with hepatic metabolism and transportation of lipids. 
Increased  liver  weight,  bile  duct  vacuolation,  bile  duct  hyperplasia,  multinucleated  hepatocytes, 
altered  cell  foci  and  hepatocellular  necrosis  were  recorded  with  a  NOAEL  of  100  mg/kg/day 
representing  an  8-9  fold  multiple  to  expected  clinical  exposure,  or  roughly  estimated  to  provide  an 
approximate 30% inhibition of CCR5.  
The mechanism of the liver toxicity is not known. Clarification has been provided by the applicant as 
to the identification of bile duct changes in different species. The CHMP concurred that interactions 
on the level of the CCR5 receptor are not likely to be involved in the effects observed, but rather these 
could  be  a  reflection  of  non-selectivity  at  the  pharmacological  level.  Different  species  appeared  to 
exhibit  different  sensitivities  and  bile  duct  hyperplasia  was  not  reported  in  toxicology  studies  other 
than  in  rat.  However  studies  in  literature  suggest  that  suggest  an  important  role  of  CCR5  in  the 
pathophysiology  of  T  cell-mediated  liver  diseases  with  specific  emphasis  on  auto-immune  and  viral 
liver  diseases  (J  Immunol.  2006  Aug  15;177(4):2039-45,  Hepatology.  2005  Oct;42(4):854-62).  The 
non-clinical  findings  are  included  in  section  5.3  of  the  SmPC.  Furthermore,  pharmacovigilance 
activities  will 
(see  section  3.5 
Pharmacovigilance). 
further  address  potential 
toxicity  clinically 
for  hepatic 
Further,  in  rats,  increased  TSH  and  T4,  thyroid  follicular  cell  hypertrophy,  vacuolation  of  adrenal 
glands and dilation of cecum were reported, the former likely a result of liver enzyme induction.  
Inflammation at the stifle joint was reported at a high dose of 1500 mg/kg in a 1 month oral study with 
an  uncertain  relation  to  treatment  and  in  the  male  fertility  study  mononuclear  infiltrates  along  the 
synovial lining of the joint was noted at high doses. 
A 7 day intravenous irritation study in rat indicated no irritating potential of the compound at doses of 
0.6, 2 and 10 mg/kg corresponding to concentrations of 0.06 to 1.0 mg/ml. 
Dog 
Four oral repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted in beagle dogs. 
Emesis,  salivation,  skin  reddening  and  ocular  effects  (protruding  nictitating  membrane,  lacrimation, 
mydriasis,  red  conjunctiva)  could  be  related  to  µ-opioid  action  and  antimuscarinic  activity. 
Generalised skin reddening was observed. While vasodilatation in vitro has been discussed in terms of 
activity  at  adrenergic  receptors  a  possible  role  of  histamine  cannot  be  excluded.  The  QTc  interval 
increased at doses of 15 mg/kg/day. There was a slight increase in heart rate and decrease in systolic 
blood  pressure.  The  NOAEL  in  dog  studies  was  5  mg/kg/day  although  some  ocular  signs  were 
evident. At this dose plasma levels (unbound) were in the clinically relevant range.  
©EMEA 2007 
11/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monkey 
Three oral repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted in cynomolgus monkeys. 
High  doses  of  400  mg/kg/day  caused  reduced  activity,  prostration,  half-closed  eyes,  decreased  body 
weight,  vomiting  and  liquid  faeces.  There  were  increases  in  triglycerides  and  ALT  and  decreases  in 
red blood cell parameters at the high dose. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased as did heart 
rate  with  administration  of  maraviroc.  Cardiovascular  reaction  was  evident  as  QTc  interval  increase 
with a NOAEL of 120 mg/kg/day (x3-5 the expected clinical exposure). No cardiac arrhythmias were 
recorded.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Maravioc  has  been  tested  for  genotoxicity  in  three  GLP  studies,  which  is  in  accordance  with 
applicable guidelines. 
In  vitro  tests  for  gene  mutation  in  bacterial  systems  (Salmonella  strains  TA1535,  TA1537,  TA98, 
TA100,  E.coli  WP2  uvrApKM101)  were  negative  as  was  the  chromosome  aberration  test  in  human 
lymphocytes. In this assay in mammalian cells, a slight increase in polyploidy cells was evident, but 
overall not considered relevant.  
The  in  vivo  mouse  micronucleus  study  for  clastogenic  potential  was  negative.  A  satellite  group  was 
included in this test for the determination of plasma levels. There were no reductions in mean percent 
polychromatic erythrocytes (PCE) suggesting that bone marrow toxicity did not occur and there was 
no significant increase in numbers of PCE with micronuclei up to the highest dose that was coupled to 
Cmax levels of 13 and 13 5 µg/ml and AUC0-24h values of 185 and 174 µg·h/ml in males and females, 
respectively. The positive and negative controls gave expected responses. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of maraviroc was evaluated in two studies: 
−  a long-term 104 week rat study (0, 50, 100, 500, 900 mg/kg/d PO; 60/sex/group); 
−  a mid-term 26 week TgrasH2 mouse study (0, 200, 800, 1500 mg/kg/d PO; 25/sex/group).  
In both studies maraviroc could be detected in a proportion of samples from control animals. This was 
most prominent in the transgenic study where 33% of control samples were positive for maraviroc and 
control, low and mid dose animals showed comparable plasma levels of maraviroc. The phenomenon 
was  essentially  inexplicable,  but  determined  to  originate  post  sampling  (inferred  from  detection  of 
metabolites in samples from treated animals but not from control animals). 
Long-term study 
High mortality in vehicle control females led to dosing discontinuation after 96 weeks and all females 
were  necropsied.  Dosing  continued  in  males  to  104  weeks.  Maraviroc  treatment  had  no  effect  on 
mortality. Percent survival was 38, 33, 42, 47 and 32% in males in the control, 50, 100, 500 and 90 
mg/kg/day groups, respectively. Corresponding values for females was 33, 42, 39, 50 and 48%.  
Systemic  exposure  was  determined  on  day  198  in  satellite  groups  of  animals.  The  mean  combined 
Cmax  on  day  198  was  0.468,  1.27,  3.49  and  3,84  µg/ml  for  the  50,  100,  500  and  900  mg/kg/day 
groups, respectively. Corresponding AUC0-24h in µg·h/ml were 3.03, 9.97, 39.7 and 54.7. Two of 30 
vehicle animals and 1 of 10 untreated animals had quantifiable levels of maraviroc. 
Total incidences of benign and malignant neoplasms were similar across all groups. The incidence of 
biliary hyperplasia was high in all groups, also controls, approaching 80%, whereas a treatment related 
increase was noted in the rat 6 month repeated toxicity study. Thyroid follicular cell adenoma occurred 
at a higher incidence in high dose animals and could be related to decreased levels of T4 and increased 
TSH  in  plasma,  related  to  liver  enzyme  induction  and  this  kind  of  changes  are  considered  of  low 
©EMEA 2007 
12/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human relevance. The trend test was significant for the rare tumours cholangiocarcinoma (2 high dose 
males) and cholangioma in a high mid dose female. These kinds of tumours have been known to occur 
in historical controls, but data is not sufficient to conclude on a spontaneous etiology. 
Mid-term study 
A  positive  control  group  of  15  mice/sex,  administered  a  single  intraperitoneal  dose  of  N-methyl-N-
nitrosurea (75 mg/kg) was included in the study.  
In 33% of control samples (8 of 24) maraviroc was  detected above the lower limit of quantification 
0.05 µg/ml (levels up to 4.18 µg/ml, comparable to Cmax levels in low and mid dose group), likely 
due  to  ex  vivo  contamination.  Toxicokinetic  data  showed  highest  plasma  levels  recorded  at  day  184 
with 4.64, 2.89 and 8.54 µg/ml, for low, mid and high dose males, respectively. Corresponding values 
for females were 4.81, 10.6 and 16.0 µg/ml. Systemic exposure levels as AUC(0-24h) were 22.5, 33.4 
and 117 µg·h/ml, for low,  mid and high dose  males,  respectively. Corresponding values for  females 
were 29.0, 71.6 and 213 µg·h/ml. High variability in plasma levels was evident.  
The  positive  control  animals  in  the  TgrasH2  mouse  study  all  exhibited  neoplastic  changes  while  no 
unexpected histopathological changes was reported for negative control and maraviroc animals, except 
a slight increase in glycogen storage in liver.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The potential of maraviroc to affect reproductory systems was studied in rat and rabbit.  
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Oral doses of up to 1000 mg/kg, corresponding to Cmax levels of 7.2 µM, a concentration estimated to 
provide  an  approximately  30%  inhibition  of  MIP-1β  binding  to  rat  (and  rabbit)  CCR5,  had  no 
significant effects on estrus cycle, pre-coital time, copulation and pregnancy rates, spermatozoid count 
in  epididymides  or  spermatic  motility.  At  the  high  dose  a  statistically  significant  increase  in 
preimplantation loss occurred.  
Embryo-foetal development 
Studies  on  embryofoetal  development  in  rat  reported  a  NOAEL  for  pregnant  females  of  300 mg/kg 
and  1000 mg/kg  for  the  foetuses  in  rat  and  no  relevant  effects  on  reproduction  parameters.  In  the 
definitive  rabbit  embryofoetal  study  the  NOAEL  was  determined  to  75  mg/kg  for  maternal  animals 
and  200  mg/kg  for  foetuses.  At  the  high  dose  7  foetuses  in  6  litters  had  external  anomalies,  two 
foetuses had a bent forepaw coupled, one foetus had cleft palate, 3 foetuses in 3 litters had short tail 
and one foetus had cutis aplasia. At 75 mg/kg one foetus had spina bifida occulta and at 30 mg/kg one 
foetus had single naris and a litter had double placenta.  
Based  on  historical  control  data  the  applicant  concluded  that  the  findings  at  the  high  dose  were 
incidental.  The  CHMP  considered  this  conclusion  questionable.  Overall,  the  studies  on  potential  for 
reproduction toxicity of maraviroc are deficient in that species used are not relevant from the primary 
pharmacological  aspect  for  he  reasons  outlined  above.  However,  although  the  non-clinical  data  has 
limitations it was acknowledged that reproductory effects due to CCR5 inhibition can to some extent 
be derived from data in CCR5 knockout mouse, which indicate no detrimental effects on fertility, as 
well  as  from  limited  human  data  that  do  not  indicate  any  cause  for  concern.  It  was  noted  that 
substances  that  cause  potent  hERG  inhibition  and  foetal  hypoxia,  have  been  coupled  to  increased 
incidences of malformations such as cardiovascular anomalies and cleft palate. 
Prenatal and postnatal development 
Peri/postnatal development was evaluated in a study in rats treated from gestation day 6 to lactation 
day 20 with doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day. The NOAEL for F0 was 300 mg/kg and for F0 reproduction 
©EMEA 2007 
13/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1000  mg/kg. Based  on  increased  motor  activity  in  F1  males  the  NOAEL  for  developmental  toxicity 
was set to 300 mg/kg. The mechanism and significance of the increased motor activity in F1 males is 
not clear.  
In summary, with regard to the potential reproduction toxicity of maraviroc the CHMP concluded that 
the wording in sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SmPC adequately reflects the available data. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data is presented above in relation to the individual studies. In general, similar values 
were obtained for male and female animals, however there were indications that females had higher 
exposures at lower doses while at high doses male/female differences were minor. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance of  maraviroc was tested in four studies addressing skin sensitization/irritation, acute 
dermal toxicity, and eye irritation. The studies were conducted in mouse, rat and rabbit.  
Maraviroc  was  devoid  of  skin  irritating  potential,  but  in  the  eye  irritation  test  caused  iritis  and  pain 
response.  Limited  distribution  studies  in  the  male  pigmented  rat  showed  distribution  to  eye  and 
pigmented skin. Maraviroc does not absorb in the range of 290-700 nm indicating that photosafety is 
not an issue. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity 
A 4 week BID immunotoxicity study was conducted in the cynomolgus monkeys. Doses of 0, 15, 50 
and  150  mg/kg  (in  0.5%  (w/v)  methylcellulose  +0.1%  Tween  80)  were  administered  twice  a  day  to 
groups of 5 male and 5 female animals each. 
Absolute white blood cell and lymphocytes (due to elevated T(CD3+) lymphocytes) were significantly 
increased at ≥100 mg/kg/day in males and absolute and relative CD4+/CD45RA+ lymphocytes counts 
were  increased  in  all  treated  male  groups  and  in  mid-dose  females.  In  the  Keyhole  Limpet 
Haemocyanin  assay,  mid  and  high  dose  males  had  significantly  lower  IgM  titers.  Natural  Killer 
activity  (as  percent  lysis)  showed  a  trend  towards  increase  with  dose.  No  relevant  statistically 
significant  effects  were  evident  and  ranges  were  wide.  High  dose  males  had  lower  thymus  weight 
while spleen weight was increased. At the dose of 300 mg/kg/day CCR5 occupancy was complete at 
all  time  points  while  at  the  dose  of  30  mg/kg/day  occupancy  was  complete  at  1  hour  post  dose  and 
approximately 79% at 7 and 24 hours post-dose.  
Chemokine  receptor  CCR5  has  a  role  in  the  development  of  a  protective  immune  response  during 
acute  infection.  The  potential  of  maraviroc  to  increase  susceptibility  or  prolong  infections  was  not 
evaluated  in  the  study.  There  were  no  indications  of  a  higher  incidence  of  infections  in  toxicology 
studies, but specific studies were not conducted.  
Other studies 
No juvenile toxicity studies have been conducted. The section 4.6 of the SPC includes information to 
indicate that the complete potential for reproduction toxicity has not been evaluated. 
The major human metabolites (UK-408,027 and UK-463,977) were tested for antiviral activity in the 
membrane fusion assay. No relevant activity was evident. 
A  series  of  toxicology  studies  (GLP)  were  conducted  as  part  of  worker  safety  studies  to  investigate 
various  compounds  and  intermediates  in  the  synthesis  of  maraviroc.  Generally  the  effects  seen  with 
©EMEA 2007 
14/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these intermediates were in the same category as effect with the parent compound except for that skin 
irritation was not evident with maraviroc. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  ecotoxicology/environmental  risk  assessment  (ERA)  according  to  the  applicable  guidelines  was 
submitted. In Phase I a worst-case PEC in surface water of 3.0 µg/l was calculated using default values 
for  Fpen,  WASTEWinhab  and  dilution.  This  was  higher  than  the  action  limit  of  0.01  µg/l  and  a 
Phase II environmental fate and effects analysis was performed. 
The  phase  II  analysis  did  not  indicate  any  environmental  concerns  with  the  use  of  maraviroc. 
However,  the  reports  from  the  following  studies  related  to  the  ERA  will  need  to  be  provided  as  a 
follow-up measure:  
−  An aerobic and anaerobic transformation study (OECD 308)  
−  A 21-day reproduction test using Daphnia magna (OECD211)  
Based on these studies as well as the data from the already conducted long-term toxicity test in fish 
(OECD210) a revised ERA should be submitted and the PEC/PNEC quotients for surface water and 
groundwater either confirmed or recalculated as appropriate. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The main clinical programme to support the MAA consisted of: 
− 
two identical phase III double-blind, randomized trials including 1076 treatment experienced 
patients with CCR5-tropic virus, 209 of whom received placebo (A4001027 and A4001028); 
−  one supportive study to evaluate the safety and antiviral activity of maraviroc in patients with 
CCR4-tropic virus (A4001029); 
two phase II dose-ranging studies for dose-selection (A4001007, A4001015). 
− 
Table  2  provides  an  overview  of  these  studies.  Furthermore,  studies  aiming  to  characterise  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  maraviroc  after  single  dose  and  multiple  dose  administration  have  been 
performed. 
©EMEA 2007 
15/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Studies Providing Support for the Dose Selection and Efficacy  
Table 2 
Study/Treatments 
(Randomisation) 
A4001007 
Cohort 1: Maraviroc 25 
QD: 100 mg BID: 
Placebo. (1:1:1) 
Cohort 2: Maraviroc 50 
mg BID: 300 mg BID: 
Placebo. (1:1:0.5) 
A4001015 
Maraviroc 150 mg BID 
(fed/ fasted): 100 mg and 
300 mg QD (fasted): 
Placebo (fed/ fasted). 
(4:4:4:4:1:1) 
A4001027  (N=601) 
Maraviroca 300 mg QD: 
300 mg BID: Placebo. 
(2:2:1) all in combination 
with OBT. 
A4001028  (N=475) 
Maraviroca 300 mg QD:  
300 mg BID: Placebo. 
(2:2:1) 
A4001029 
(N=186) 
Maraviroca 300 mg QD:  
300 mg BID: Placebo. 
(1:1:1) 
Study Design  
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled. 
Asymptomatic patients with 
CCR5 tropic HIV-1. Study drug 
as monotherapy for 10 days. 
Objectives: pharmacodynamics, 
pharmacokinetics, safety, 
toleration.   
Design as A4001007. 
Objectives: effects of food and 
dose regimen (QD versus BID). 
Multicentre, randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled. 
Antiretroviral-experienced 
patients with CCR5 tropic HIV-1. 
Endpoints evaluated at w 24. 
Duration 48 w.  
See A4001027. 
See A4001027. Antiretroviral-
experienced patients with non-
CCR5 tropic (CCR5/CXCR4, 
CXCR4-using or non-
phenotypable) HIV-1.   
Location/no of 
sites 
- 
Main Outcome 
All doses of maraviroc 
superior to placebo (10% 
significance level).  Doses ≥ 
100 mg BID produced a 
similar decrease in viral load. 
- 
US                  90 
Canada           15 
Puerto Rico      2 
Europe (10 c) 75 
Australia         11 
         46 
US 
         41 
US 
Canada             7 
Europe (6 c)   21 
Australia           7 
Viral load decrease was 
similar for  
150 mg fed and fasted 
treatment  
groups and for 300 mg QD 
group. 
Maraviroc superior to placebo 
in both primary and secondary 
endpoints. No relevant 
difference between maraviroc 
QD and BID regimens. 
See A4001027 
Similar decrease in viral load 
in all groups. Increase in CD4 
cell count was significantly 
higher for maraviroc BID 
compared with placebo.   
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. The development programme did meet the 
requirements of the applicable EU guideline for the clinical development of medicinal products for the 
treatment of HIV infection. 
A paediatric development programme has not been initiated. 
The recommended dose is 150 mg, 300 mg or 600 mg twice daily depending on interactions with co-
administered antiretroviral therapy and other medicinal products. 
The initially applied indication was “CELSENTRI, in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products, is indicated for treatment-experienced adult patients infected with CCR5-tropic HIV-1. This 
indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of 24 
weeks duration in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1).” 
The approved indication is: 
“CELSENTRI, in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products, is indicated for 
treatment-experienced adult patients infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable (see 
section 4.2). 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1).” 
©EMEA 2007 
16/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Maraviroc  pharmacokinetics  was  studied  in  28  PhaseI/IIa  studies  (complete  profiles)  and  3  Phase 
IIb/III  studies  (with  sparse  sampling).  The  evaluation  was  performed  after  single  dose  intravenous 
administration  (1-30  mg)  as  well  as  oral  single  dose  (1-1200  mg)  and  multiple  dose  administration 
(3-900 mg BID and 1200 mg QD).  
The  following  formulations  were  used  during  development:  Powder  for  oral  solution  in  phase  I, 
5 mg/25  mg/50  mg/100  mg/150  mg  tablets  in  Phase  I  and  IIa,  and  150  mg  in  Phase  IIb/III.  An  IV 
formulation  was  used  to  determine  absolute  bioavailability.  The  commercial  formulations  (150 mg, 
300 mg) have not been used in the clinical trials. 
The analytical methods used to analyze maraviroc have been adequately validated. 
•  Absorption  
The  absorption  of  maraviroc  is  highly  variable  with  multiple  peaks.  The  mean  Tmax  was  between 
2 and  3  hours  with  individual  values  ranging  from  0.5  to  8  hours  (with  food).  The  absolute 
bioavailability  for  maraviroc  was  23%  at  100 mg  and  has  a  predicted  bioavailability  of  31  %  at 
300 mg.  The  absorption  of  maraviroc  is  dose  dependent,  likely  attributed  to  saturated  efflux 
transporters  in  the  intestine.  Maraviroc  is  highly  soluble  in  aqueous  media  across  pH  1-7.5,  has  an 
efflux ratio >10 in Caco-2 cell monolayers and is a substrate for P-gp and the Multidrug Resistance 
Protein (MRP).  
Bioequivalence 
The research tablet formulation (150 mg) as well as the commercial tablet formulations are completely 
dissolved within 30 minutes (>90% within 15 minutes) and hence dissolution will not be rate limiting 
for  the  absorption  of  maraviroc.  Bioequivalence  was  shown  between  the  commercial  300 mg  tablet 
and  research  formulation  (2 x 150 mg).  The  solution  had  a  12%  higher  bioavailability  than  the 
research tablet.  
A bioequivalence study as well as a food effect study with the commercial formulation (300 mg) has 
been conducted. The results of the bioequivalence study are summarised in Table 3. 
©EMEA 2007 
17/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Results of the Bioequivalence study of the commercial and the research 
formulations 
Parameter (units) 
Mean Pharmacokinetic Values (range) 
Maraviroc 300 mg  
(1 x 300 mg Commercial 
Tablet) 
N=43b 
2720 (1470-4740) 
2699 (1460-4650) 
638 (343-1330) 
2.47 (0.50-4.00) 
10.4 (8.51-14.7) 
Maraviroc 300 mg 
(2 x 150 mg Research 
Tablet) 
N=42 
2762 (1480-4510) 
2729 (1470-4470) 
654 (246-1220) 
2.45 (0.50-4.00) 
10.5 (8.45-13.7) 
AUCinf (ng.h/ml)c 
AUClast (ng.h/ml)c 
Cmax (ng/ml)c 
Tmax (h)d 
t½ (h)d 
a The ratios are expressed as percentages for AUCinf, AUClast and Cmax and difference for Tmax 
b N=42 for AUCinf and t½ 
c Geometric means  
d arithmetic means  
CI=confidence interval, n/c=not calculated. 
Ratio or Difference 
(90% CI)a 
98.0% (93.9%, 102%) 
98.4% (94.3%, 103%) 
96.1% (88.1%, 105%) 
0.04 (-0.33, 0.40) 
n/c 
Since  bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  2  x  150  mg  research  tablets  and  1  x  300  mg 
commercial  tablet,  the  applicant  considered  it  not  necessary  to  investigate  bioequivalence  of 
1 x 150 mg  commercial  tablet  to  1  x  150  mg  research  tablet  on  the  basis  that  150   mg  and  300  mg 
commercial  tablets  are  manufactured  from  the  same  blend,  and  have  identical  compositions. 
Furthermore, the 150 mg research tablet and 150 mg commercial tablets are identical in terms of their 
in vitro  dissolution  performance.  The  CHMP  concurred  that  it  is  not  necessary  to  perform  a 
bioequivalence study with the 150 mg tablet considering the small difference in tablet formulation, the 
high solubility and rapid dissolution. 
Influence of food  
The influence of food was studied in four different studies in healthy subjects; A4001001 (solution), 
A4001003, A4001004 (research formulation) and A4001043 (commercial formulation). Although not 
formally  tested,  food  effect  was  also  studied  in  HIV  infected  subjects  in  Study  A4001015  (research 
formulation). 
AUC and Cmax were reduced by 33% when 300 mg commercial tablet formulation was administered 
with  a  high  fat,  high  calorie  breakfast.  Tmax  was prolonged  for  some  subjects  but  over  all  the  time 
profiles were not significantly altered. The food effect on the research tablet was dependent on dose 
and the model predicted food effect was 30% reduced bioavailability for a 300 mg dose and 25% for a 
600 mg dose. In HIV-1 infected subjects receiving 150 mg research tablet, AUC was reduced by 50%.  
The food effect on the 150 mg commercial tablet is predicted to be 47% in the absence of CYP3A4 
inhibitors and would be reduced to 36% in the presence of saquinavir/rtv. The mechanism behind the 
food effect is likely a combination of more efficient efflux due to slower absorption (less saturation) 
and to some extent complex formation. The food-effect will not be relevant for maraviroc when co-
administered  with  CYP3A4  inhibitors  with  large  effects  on  maraviroc  e.g.  lopinavir/rtv,  saquinavir 
and atazanavir (which in the clinical studies resulted in substantially increased exposure relative to 300 
mg  BID  in  the  monotherapy  study,  A4001007).  The  Phase  III  data  suggests  that  when  taken  BID 
without food restrictions (likely taken as recommended for their other drugs in the OBT) the exposure 
was not substantially lower than in subjects who had taken maraviroc in a fasted state (monotherapy 
study), thus supports that maraviroc can be administered with or without food. 
•  Distribution 
Maraviroc binds to both albumin and α1-acid glycoprotein. The plasma protein binding is between 73 
and 78 % and blood plasma ratio around 0.59 suggesting limited distribution into blood cells. Volume 
of distribution determined after intravenous administration was 194 l. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Maraviroc is mainly eliminated by metabolism. In vitro, CYP3A4 is the main enzyme responsible for 
maraviroc metabolism (with possible small, but likely not relevant, contribution of CYP2D6, CYP3A5 
and CYP2B6). After intravenous administration of 30 mg maraviroc (approximately corresponding to 
exposure after oral administration of 100 mg) total clearance was 44 l/h and renal clearance 10.2 l/h, 
thus  23%  was  excreted  unchanged.  The  terminal  half-life  was  13  hours  after  intravenous  dose  and 
around 16 hours after multiple oral doses of 300 mg.  
The  mass  balance  study  (300  mg  oral  14C-  maraviroc)  was  performed  with  maraviroc  alone. 
Simulations  were  performed  to  predict  the  size  of  the  remaining  elimination  pathways  when 
administered  with  CYP3A4/P-gp  inhibitors  with  different  potency.  In  the  presence  of  metabolic 
inhibitors, renal clearance may account for up to 70% of total clearance of maraviroc. 
Excretion 
In the mass balance study 19.6% of total radioactivity was recovered in urine and 76.4% in faeces. Of 
the excreted quantities, unchanged maraviroc constituted on average 25% in faeces and 8% in urine.  
One  unlabelled  metabolite,  UK-463,977,  was  present  in  urine  equivalent  to  3%  of  the  dose.  No 
information about the concentration –time profiles of the metabolites is available as plasma samples 
(0-18) hours were pooled before characterisation of metabolites.  
Metabolism 
The  metabolism  of  maraviroc  was  evaluated  in  three  healthy  male  subjects  after  administration  of 
300mg  14C maraviroc as an oral solution in a fasted state. Whole blood samples and plasma samples 
were  collected  on  Days  1  to  6  at  specified  times  up  to  120  hours  post-dose  to  measure  plasma 
maraviroc  and  UK-463,977  concentrations,  to  measure  radioactivity  and  for  metabolite  profiling, 
respectively.  Urine  and  faeces  were  collected  to  measure  urinary  and  faecal  radioactivity  and  for 
metabolite profiling up to at least 120 hours post-dose on Day 1. UK-463,977 concentrations were also 
determined in urine.  
Unchanged  maraviroc  was  the  main  circulating  component  in  plasma  (42%  of  plasma  radioactivity) 
and  the  metabolites  UK-408,027  (22%),  an  amine  analogue  (11%)  and  UK-463,977  were  also 
identified in plasma. The metabolites UK-408,027 or UK463,977 appear not to accumulate with time.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Non-proportional  increase  in  exposure  with  increased  dose  was  observed  after  oral  administration. 
Urine  pharmacokinetic  results  showed  that  the  mean  percentage  of  maraviroc  dose  excreted 
unchanged  in  the  urine  increased  from  1.5%  following  1 mg  to  12%  following  1200 mg;  renal 
clearance  did  not  change  notably  with  dose.  The  applicant  has  suggested  that  the  non-linearity  is 
related  to  increased  bioavailability  as  a  result  of  saturation  of  intestinal  efflux  proteins. 
Disproportional  increases  in  exposure  after  higher  single  doses  are  larger  than  predicted  from 
increased absorption only but the variability was large and renal clearance did not seem to be altered 
with  higher  doses.  The  CHMP  considered  the  proposed  mechanism  for  nonlinearity  at  lower  doses 
seems reasonable. 
After intravenous administration the kinetics was reasonably linear but the exposure after the highest 
intravenous dose was much lower than the highest studied oral doses and even if no firm conclusion 
regarding  non-linearity  in  non-renal  elimination  can  be  drawn,  multiple  dose  data  at  higher  doses 
suggest that nonlinearity at higher doses is limited.  
No obvious time dependency was observed. 
©EMEA 2007 
19/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Target population  
No major differences between healthy subjects and HIV-1 infected have been observed. 
Population Pharmacokinetics 
An  extensive  modelling  program  was  undertaken.  Intravenous  data  was  modelled  separately.  A 
4-compartment  model  best  described  the  data.  Dose,  formulation  and  food  effect  was  initially 
estimated  using  AUC  and  Cmax  data  obtained  from  non-compartmental  data  analysis  of  orally 
administered maraviroc as dependent variables. Later a partition model (separating hepatic extraction 
from  absorption  bioavailability)  was  developed  using  Phase  I/IIa  data  of  maraviroc  after  oral 
administration with no concomitant drugs allowed. Renal clearance as well as hepatic blood flow was 
fixed  in  this  model.  Interoccasion  variability  has  not  been  taken  into  account.  No  conventional 
population  analysis  (e.g.  covariate  evaluation  on  a  population  level)  was  performed  on  the  Phase 
IIb/III data. Instead the Phase I/IIa model with minor modifications was applied to Phase I interaction 
data  as  well  as  Phase  IIb/III  data  to  obtain  empirical  Bayes  estimates  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters by fixing all typical values and their variance to the Phase I/IIa typical values except the 
residual  error,  hepatic  extraction  ratio  and  the  parameter  describing  at  which  dose  the  fraction 
absorbed is 50% which were considered to be potentially affected by interacting agents. The empirical 
Bayes estimates were then used for evaluation of interaction effects of Phase I interaction data as well 
as Phase IIb/III data. The empirical Bayes estimates for the Phase IIb/III data were also used to predict 
Cmin,  Cave  and  equivalent  constant  concentration,  ECC  (defined  as  a  constant  concentration  that 
gives  the  same  average  PD  effect  as  an  actual  time  varying  concentration)  for  the  pharmacokinetic-
pharmacodynamic evaluation of failure versus non-failure in the same population. Due to presence of 
shrinkage,  data  evaluation  based  on  the  empirical  Bayes  estimates  should  be  viewed  with  some 
caution. 
•  Variability 
The coefficient of variation for Cmax and AUC was 20-40% based on noncompartmental analysis of 
phase  1  data.  In  the  population  models  interindividual  variability  in  hepatic  extraction  ratios  varied 
between 8% in the Phase 1/2a data to 87% in the Phase 2b/3 data. The latter figure reflects the effects 
of  different  OBT,  which  was  not  included  in  the  model.  Interindividual  variability  in  central  and 
peripheral volumes of distribution was estimated to be 12 and 28% respectively.  
•  Special populations 
Influence of race, sex, weight and age 
The influence of race, sex, weight and age was evaluated in the Phase I/IIa population analysis. Asian 
(23%  of  total  population  studied)  as  compared  to  non-Asian  were  estimated  to  have  a  26%  higher 
AUC. As renal clearance was fixed to 12 l/h in this analysis, no covariate effects was tested for that 
parameter. No significant effect of sex was found (96 women, 23% of the total population studied, was 
included). No statistically significant effect of weight (range 46-109 kg) was found. Age was found to 
be statistically significant for intercompartmental clearance (will not affect prediction of total exposure 
or average concentration) but the studied range was very limited (18-54 years). 
In the final population report from the Phase IIb/III studies included subjects between 16 and 75 years 
of age an attempt to evaluate the relation between age and clearance was made after including effects 
of OBT on absorption and elimination. There was no statistically significant effect of age, but the data 
included very few subjects above 65. Thus no conclusion regarding patients above 65 years of age can 
be drawn from this study.  
A  specific  study  was  conducted  comparing  Asian  (N=12)  and  Caucasian  (N=12)  subjects.  A  lower 
renal  clearance  was  observed  for  Asian  subjects  but  AUC  over  24  hours  was  slightly  less  although 
with larger variability. 
©EMEA 2007 
20/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
A  study  in  subjects  with  mild  and  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  A  and  B)  as  well  as 
subjects  with  normal  hepatic  function  has  been  conducted.  Administration  of  maraviroc  (300  mg 
single dose) to subjects with mild and moderate hepatic impairment resulted in mean values of AUClast 
which  were  25%  and  45%  higher,  respectively  than  in  subjects  with  normal  hepatic  function 
[geometric  means  and  corresponding  90%  CIs  for  the  comparisons  were  125%  (84.7%,  185%)  and 
145%  (100%,  212%)].  Smaller  differences  in  Cmax  were  noted  with  mean  values  11%  and  32% 
higher  for  mild  and  moderate  impairment  compared  to  normal  function,  respectively.  As  expected 
mean  CL/F  decreased  with  increasing  hepatic  impairment,  although  the  differences  between  mild 
hepatic impairment and normal hepatic function were minimal. Mean CLR was higher in subjects with 
moderate hepatic impairment compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. The mechanism for 
this  increase  in  CLR  is  not  known.  Mean  Tmax  and  t1/2  did  not  appear  to  be  affected  by  hepatic 
impairment.  
The  data  is  limited  with  wide  confidence  intervals  for  the  comparisons  to  normal  subjects.  Also 
considering the higher CLR, the effect of hepatic impairment may have been underestimated due to the 
limited number of subjects with reduced metabolic capacity; this is reflected in the SmPC in sections 
4.2, 4.4 and 5.2. 
Renal impairment 
Studies in subjects with renal impairment have not been performed. In patients without concomitant 
administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, renal excretion constitutes a minor elimination pathway (about 
23% of total clearance). In these patients decreased renal function will likely have a limited effect on 
maraviroc exposure. In patients with concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g. protease 
inhibitors, renal clearance will constitute up to approximately 70% of total clearance.  
The applicant has proposed prolonged dose intervals for patients with mild, moderate and severe renal 
impairment which is considered acceptable but due to the variable effects of inhibitors the impact of 
renal impairment may be exaggerated thus clinical response to treatment should be closely monitored. 
A respective statement is included in SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Effect of other substances on maraviroc 
Maraviroc  is  a  P-gp  substrate  and  mainly  metabolised  by  CYP3A4,  thus,  the  interaction  potential 
when  co-administered  with  other  antiretroviral  agents  is  large.  A  number  of  interaction  studies  with 
substrates  affecting CYP3A4, P-gp as  well as renal secretion were performed in healthy subjects. A 
summary of the observed effects of other substances on maraviroc is presented in Table 4. 
The applicant proposed the following dose adjustments: 
−  150 mg BID when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors including protease inhibitors 
(except tipranavir/ritonavir) and ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin; 
−  600 mg BID when co-administered with CYP3A4 inducers (without a CYP3A4 inhibitor) 
including efavirenz and rifampicin; 
−  300  mg  BID  for  other  concomitant  medications,  including  all  other  antiretrovirals  and 
tipranavir/ritonavir. 
Dose  reductions  have  been  applied  in  the  Phase  IIb/III  studies  and  the  interaction  results  were 
evaluated by obtaining empirical Bayes estimates based on sparse sampled plasma concentration data 
and the Phase I/IIa population pharmacokinetic  model. The applicant claimed that the  main limiting 
toxicity (postural hypotension) has been associated with Cmax. By visual inspection of observed data 
the  attempt  to  achieve  similar  Cmax  succeeded  with  the  suggested  dose  adjustment  for  CYP3A4 
inhibitors (150 mg BID).  However, as  expected from the Phase I interaction studies, where between 
2.6 and 9.8-fold increases in AUC was observed, the AUC was not completely corrected by reducing 
©EMEA 2007 
21/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  dose  by  half.  Long-term  safety  data  is  currently  lacking.  If  long-term  toxicity  may  be  related  to 
total exposure the strategy for co-administration with CYP3A4 inhibitors may need to be re-evaluated.  
Table 4 
Summary of the effect of other compounds on maraviroc 
Co-administered substance  
(dose) 
N  Maraviroc 
Dose 
CYP3A4 and/or P-gp Inhibitors 
Ketoconazole 
400 mg QD 
Saquinavir  (soft-gelatine capsules)  
1200 mg TID 
Ritonavir 
100 mg BID 
Saquinavir (soft-gelatine capsules)/r  
1000 mg/100 mg BID 
Saquinavir (soft-gelatine capsules)/r 
1000 mg/100 mg BID 
Lopinavir/r  
400 mg/100 mg BID 
Lopinavir/r 
400 mg/100 mg BID 
Atazanavir 
400 mg QD 
Atazanavir/r 
300 mg/100 mg QD 
Darunavir/r 
600 mg/100 mg BID 
CYP3A4 and/or P-gp Inducers 
Efavirenz 
600 mg QD 
Rifampicin 
600 mg QD 
CYP3A4 and/or P-gp Inhibitors and Inducers 
Lopinavir/r + efavirenz 
400 mg/100 mg BID + 600 mg QD 
Saquinavir (soft-gelatine capsules)/r + efavirenz 
1000 mg/100 mg BID + 600mg QD 
Tipranavir/r 
500 mg/200 mg BID 
Renal Substrates and/or Inhibitors 
 Sulfamehoxazole/Trimethoprim 
800 mg/160 mg BID 
Tenofovir  
300 mg BID 
12 
12 
8 
8 
11 
8 
11 
12 
12 
15 
12 
12 
11  
11 
12 
15 
12 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
150 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
100 mg 
BID 
150 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
300 mg 
BID 
Ratio (90% CI) of maraviroc phar-
macokinetic parameters with/without 
co-administered substance  
(no effect = 1.00) 
AUCtau 
Cmax 
5.00 
(3.98, 6.29) 
4.25 
(3.47, 5.19) 
2.61 
(1.92, 3.56) 
8.32 
(6.11, 11.3) 
9.77 
(7.87, 12.14) 
3.83 
(2.81, 5.21) 
3.95 
(3.43, 4.56) 
3.57 
(3.30, 3.87) 
4.88 
(4.40, 5.41) 
4.05 
(2.94, 5.59) 
3.38 
(2.38, 4.78) 
3.32 
(2.45, 4.49) 
1.28 
(0.79, 2.09) 
4.23 
(2.60, 6.88) 
4.78 
(3.41, 6.71) 
1.61 
(0.99, 2.63) 
1.97 
(1.66, 2.34) 
2.09 
(1.72, 2.55) 
2.67 
(2.32, 3.08) 
2.29 
(1.46, 3.59) 
0.552 
(0.492, 0.620) 
0.368 
(0.328, 0.413) 
0.486 
(0.377, 0.626) 
0.335 
(0.260, 0.431) 
2.53 
(2.24, 2.87) 
5.00 
(4.26, 5.87) 
1.02 
(0.850, 1.23) 
1.1 
(1.04,1.37) 
1.03 
(0.980, 1.09) 
1.25 
(1.01, 1.55) 
2.26 
(1.64, 3.11) 
0.86 
(0.61, 1.21) 
1.19 
(1.01, 1.21) 
1.04 
(0.901, 1.19) 
In general, the maraviroc dose should be decreased to 150 mg twice daily when co-administered with 
a PI; except in combination with tipranavir/ritonavir or fosamprenavir/ritonavir where the dose should 
be 300 mg BID. No dose adjustments are suggested for moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. 
The  suggested  doubling  of  the  dose  with  CYP3A4  inducers  has  not  been  evaluated  at  the 
recommended  dose  of  maraviroc.  The  applicant  claims  based  on  simulations  that  a  dose  increment 
from 100 to 200 mg is directly transferable to 300 to 600mg; however the CHMP considered that it is 
necessary to include clarifying statements in the SmPC. 
©EMEA 2007 
22/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rifampicin is mainly used together with efavirenz (as rifampicin is contraindicated for most boosted 
PIs)  but  as  it  is  not  known  how  large  the  effect  of  two  inducers would  be no dose  recommendation 
could be given.  
When combinations of inhibitors and inducers are used the suggested dose adjustment is half the dose 
based  on  results  from  combinations  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  or  saquinavir/ritonavir  with  efavirenz  (the 
PIs with large effect on maraviroc pharmacokinetics). Based on the effects on maraviroc in the Phase I 
interaction  studies,  the  same  recommendations  could  be  given  for  atazanavir  and  darunavir/ritonavir 
which had effects similar to lopinavir/ritonavir when administered without efavirenz.  
Rifabutin is considered to be a less potent inducer than rifampicin and is likely to have similar or less 
inducing  effect  as  efavirenz.  Therefore  the  same  dose  recommendations  as  for  Efavirenz  +  protease 
inhibitors could be given. 
Recommendations for nevirapine is based on comparison with historical data which suggested that the 
effects of nevirapine on maraviroc is limited therefore no dose adjustment is suggested. 
No significant effects of trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole or tenofovir were observed. The applicant 
will  further  investigate  as  follow-up  measure  which  transporters  are  involved  in  the  active  renal 
secretion of maraviroc.  
Based on these considerations, the available information relevant for the use of maraviroc in CART is 
included in SmPC section 4.5. 
Since extrapolations are difficult to make and it may be difficult to perform interaction studies with all 
possible  combinations  used  in  the  treatment  experienced  patients,  it  has  been  explored  with  the 
applicant  whether  Therapeutic  Drug  Monitoring  (TDM)  could  be  used.  However,  this  was  not 
considered feasible as an alternative option due to the difficulties in defining a target concentration of 
maraviroc suitable for all situations. Furthermore, TDM is not available in all regions. 
The  CHMP  asked  the  SAG  HIV/Viral  Diseases  to  discuss  which  drug  interaction  studies  are 
considered necessary in order to provide adequate data to assist CART in medical practice. 
The SAG concluded that interaction data from a study investigating the combination of efavirenz and 
rifampicin  would  be  needed  from  a  clinical  perspective  as  this  combination  may  be  used  in  some 
regions  (EU  and  ex-EU)  where  appropriate  alternatives  are  not  available.  Furthermore,  antifungals 
other  than  ketoconazole  should  be  investigated,  in  particular  voriconazole  and  posaconazole  if  the 
target  population  requires  adequate  dose  recommendation  for  these  antifungals.  The  experts 
appreciated  that  the  applicant  did  already  initiate  interaction  studies  with  darunavir  and  etravirine 
(alone and in combination) as well as raltegravir, and was committed to investigate future compounds 
as appropriate. Studies with boosted PI (preferably PIs with different degree of effect on maraviroc) + 
rifabutin (adjusted dose) as well as macrolide antibiotics were not considered necessary. 
Despite the recommendations from the SAG, the CHMP concluded that further suggested interaction 
studies  (e.g  maraviroc  in  combination  with  rifampicin+efavirenz  as  well  as  in  combination  with 
voriconazole/posiconazole)  were  not  required  for  the  sought  indication.  Considering  that  a  CCR5-
antagonist could potentially have a negative impact on treatment outcomes for certain infections like 
active  tuberculosis  and  invasive  fungal  infections,  due  to  the  possible  immunosuppressive  effect  of 
CCR5-antagonists, the use in clinical practise is unlikely. A precautionary statement has been included 
in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Effect of maraviroc on other substances 
The  in  vitro  studies  do  not  give  an  indication  of  any  relevant  inhibition  of  maraviroc  on  CYP1A2, 
CYP2B6,  CYP2C8,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A4  that  would  require  further  in  vivo 
studies.  Maraviroc  is  a  substrate  for  P-gp  but  it  is  unknown  whether  it  inhibits  P-gp,  which  will  be 
©EMEA 2007 
23/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
further investigated by the applicant as a follow-up measure. No indication of induction of CYP3A4 
by maraviroc has been observed in vivo; therefore the ability of maraviroc to induce CYP450 enzymes 
is regarded to be limited.  
No significant effect of maraviroc on the exposure of lamivudine and stavudine was observed.  
Although not evaluated at the recommended dose, but taken together with the observation of no effect 
on  the  cortisol/β-hydroxy  cortisol  ratio,  it  can  be  concluded  that  maraviroc  is  not  likely  to  have  an 
effect on ethinylestradiol or levonorgestrel exposure.  
Very limited effects on oral midazolam pharmacokinetics (18% increased AUC) was observed. It may 
be concluded that the effect of maraviroc on other CYP3A4 substrates is likely to be limited. 
At  high  exposure  level  (600mg  dose)  of  maraviroc  there  was  a  shift  in  metabolic  ratio  for 
debrisoquine,  indicating  a  possible  inhibition  of  CYP2D6  but  the  inhibition  is  not  likely  to  be 
clinically relevant.  
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
In vitro metabolism 
In  vitro  metabolism  has  been  studied  in  human  hepatocytes,  microsomes  and  recombinant  enzyme 
systems.  The  conclusions  from  these  studies  are  that  CYP3A4  is  mainly  responsible  for  the 
metabolism  of  maraviroc.  One  study  suggested  a  small  contribution  of  CYP2B6  but  which  was 
170-fold  less  than  CYP3A4.  In  another  study  some  metabolism  by  CYP3A5  (half-life  of  99  min  as 
compared  to  4.2  min  in  the  CYP3A4  incubation)  was  observed.  In  one  study  maraviroc  was  easily 
detectable in all samples but metabolites were only detected in incubation with recombinant CYP3A4 
and  CYP2D6  samples.  The  metabolites  were  approximately  5  fold  higher  in  the  CYP3A4  samples 
indicating a larger turnover rate.  
To further investigate the elimination pathway which gave rise to the unlabelled metabolic in the mass 
balance  study  (see  above)  the  applicant  performed  HPLC  profiling  after  incubation  of  dual-labelled 
[14C]-maraviroc  with  pooled  human  microsomes  which  showed  that  the  secondary  amine  (UK-
408,027) and a primary alcohol (UK-453,465) represented the two halves of the molecule following 
N-dealkylation  of  the  parent  compound  adjacent  to  the  tropane  ring.  The  two  metabolites  were  also 
identified  in  the  hepatocyte  extract.  In  addition  a  carboxylic  acid  metabolite  (UK-463,977)  was 
identified  resulting  from  N-dealkylation.  The  applicant  concludes  that  the  presence  of  cytosolic 
enzymes  promotes  the  formation  of  the  carboxylic  acid  and  suggests  that  it  should  be  the  major 
component resulting from this pathway. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacodynamics of maraviroc in patients with CCR5-tropic virus (R5-virus) was evaluated in 
two phase II dose ranging studies and two identical phase III studies. In a supportive study, the viral 
activity was studied in patients with non-CCR5-tropic virus. For details of these studies see Table 3. 
Non-clinical studies related to pharmacodynamics are presented in section 3.3. 
•  Mechanism of action 
Maraviroc is a small molecule CCR5-antagonist, which acts by binding to the transmembrane region 
of the CCR5 receptor. It is hypothesized, that this binding stabilizes a receptor conformation that is not 
recognized by the CCR5-tropic HIV. Hereby the virus cannot bind to the co-receptor, and HIV-entry 
is  blocked.  Hence,  the  mode  of  action  is  non-competitive  allosteric  inhibition  of  HIV  co-receptor 
binding. CCR5-antagonists have no effect on CXCR4-tropic virus. 
©EMEA 2007 
24/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacology 
Antiviral activity 
In vitro: The in vitro IC50 for maraviroc against HIV-1 group M/O was 0.1-8.9 nM (0.05-4.56 ng/mL) 
in isolated human peripheral blood lymphocyte (PBL) HIV replication assay systems. The geometric 
mean IC90 was 2.0 nM, correlating to unbound IC90 of 1.0 nM (0.5 ng/mL). This correlated to an in 
vitro Inhibitory Quotient (IQ) of around 60 for the 300 mg dosage (IQ = Cmin/serum adjusted IC50 
value). 
The  detailed  data  based  on  HIV-1  CCR5-tropic  primary  clinical  isolates  tested  in  human  peripheral 
blood lymphocytes (PBL) is summarised in Tables 5 and 6. 
Table 5 
In vitro antiviral activity obtained in human peripheral blood lymphocytes 
Parameter 
EC50 
EC90 
Serum adjusted EC90 
Antiviral Activity (ng/mL) 
Overall HIV-1 CCR5-tropic primary clinical isolates, n=43  (range) 
0.26 (0.02 – 3.55) 
1.04 (0.11 – 19.6) 
0.57 (0.06 – 10.7) 
HIV-1 CCR5-tropic primary clinical isolates  
EC50 
EC90  
Serum adjusted EC90 
HIV-1 group M, n=39 
(range) 
0.27 (0.05 – 3.55) 
1.08 (0.11 – 19.6) 
0.59 (0.06 – 10.8) 
HIV-1 group O, n=4 
(range) 
0.37 (0.21 - 4.62) 
0.92 (0.46 - 9.42) 
0.50 (0.25 - 5.12) 
©EMEA 2007 
25/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
In vitro antiviral activity (EC90, ng/mL) for CCR5-tropic HIV-1 group M subtypes 
obtained in relevant cell types 
Subtype tested 
A 
AE 
AG 
AGJ 
B 
C 
D 
F 
G 
J 
Primary clinical    
isolates1 
(range; n) 
0.56 
(0.14 - 2.81; 4) 
0.26 
(0.21 - 0.33; 14) 
- 
- 
0.94 
(0.21 – 12.3; 21) 
1.54  
(0.17 – 7.45; 4) 
1.36 
(0.70 – 3.77; 4) 
1.52 
(1.38 – 1.66; 1) 
2.28 
(0.52 – 19.6; 2) 
1.24 
(0.11 – 9.20; 2) 
Viral Isolate 
Laboratory adapted 
strains2 
(range; n) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.85  
(1.26 – 20.4; 1) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Recombinant clinical 
isolates3 
(range; n) 
2.06 
(1.54-2.78; 2) 
2.67 
5.04  
(1.80- 13.67; 5) 
11.51 
7.29  
(1.29-48.83; 160) 
5.29 
(1.0- 95.5; 20) 
8.02 
(5.76- 11.21; 2) 
15.16 
(11.87- 19.33; 2) 
8.53 
16.55 
1Tested in peripheral blood lymphocytes.  
2The CCR5-tropic laboratory adapted strain Ba-L was tested in PM-1 cells (n=16), PBL (n=21) and monocyte 
derived macrophages (n=4).  
3The CCR5-tropic recombinant clinical isolates were tested in the Phenosense™ HIV entry assay and included 
isolates from treatment-naïve (n=100) and treatment-experienced (n=100) patients.   
4Subtype CRF01_AE.93TH073, previously known as subtype E.  n = number of different isolates tested. The 
subtype B CXCR4-tropic laboratory adapted strain IIIB was tested in PM-1 cells and was not inhibited by 
maraviroc. CXCR4-tropic primary clinical isolates (subtypes B, D & F, n=4) and dual-tropic primary clinical 
isolates (subtype B, n=2) tested in PBL were not inhibited by maraviroc.   
In vivo: During 10 days of maraviroc monotherapy HIV-RNA decreased 1.6 log10 copies/mL. 
Resistance 
Resistance to  maraviroc can occur in two  main ways – with X4-virus or R5-virus. Failure with X4-
virus  can  theoretically  be  due  to  X4-virus  already  present  but  not  previously  detected,  or  by 
mutagenesis  of  R5-  to  X4-virus.  Failure  with  R5-virus  can  be  due  to  “traditional  resistance”,  with  a 
mutated  virus  with  a  reduced  sensitivity  to  the  compound  –  or  due  to  a  suboptimal  substance 
exposure/other unknown reasons. 
In vitro resistance 
Phenotypic resistance: In selection experiments, using both lab strains and clinical isolates, a reduced 
sensitivity was observed for some strains/isolates after 4 months (16 passages) or longer. All strains, 
with  or  without  reduced  sensitivity,  remained  R5-positive  -  no  X4-virus  was  found.  Traditional 
phenotypic fold-change was not a suitable marker for reduced sensitivity; the dose-response curves in 
samples  with  reduced  sensitivity  did  not  shift  to  the  right  with  increased  concentration,  but  rather 
showed  a  “plateau  in  maximal  percent  inhibition”.  The  rank-order  of  this  plateau  of  maximal 
percentage inhibition (MPI) was the same regardless of assay used.  
©EMEA 2007 
26/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotypic  resistance:  In  clonal  analyses  of  isolates  with  reduced  sensitivity  to  maraviroc  (after 
selection  experiments)  mutations  were  found  to  have  accumulated  in  the  gp120  genome.  The 
mutations were not found at the same positions in different strains.  
Cross-resistance:  the  maraviroc-resistant  clinical  isolates  were  fully  sensitive  to  other  CCR5-
antagonists (aplaviroc, vicriviroc) as well as enfuvurtide and other antiretrovirals in vitro.  
In summary, it was possible to induce reduced sensitivity to maraviroc in clinical isolates (still CCR5-
tropic) during long time serial passage in vitro. It is hypothesized that maraviroc resistant CCR5-tropic 
virus  are  still  able  to  recognise  the  CCR5-receptor  conformations  despite  the  presence  of  maraviroc 
(which  is  present  in  the  transmembrane  region),  and  can  therefore  not  be  inhibited  even  at  high 
substance levels. No shift to CXCR4-tropic virus was seen in vitro. 
In vivo resistance 
Due to the (adequate) blinded fashion of the analyses, and the complexity of the resistance assessment, 
the analyses of resistance in vivo are based on a low number of patients.  
−  For  patients  with  CCR5-tropic  virus  at  failure  (no  CXCR4-tropic  virus  present  at  rebound), 
drug  susceptibility  was  assessed  and  sequencing  of  the  envelope  genome  was  performed 
(looking for mutations correlating to resistance). 
−  For  patients  with  CXCR4-tropic  virus  at  rebound  baseline  samples  were  re-assessed  for 
CXCR4-tropic virus. This was followed by phylogenetic analyses performed to compare the 
sequences  of  the  virus  found  at  failure  and  that  found  at  baseline  (X4  if  actually  present  at 
baseline, otherwise the R5-virus). 
1. 
Maraviroc treated patients failing with CXCR4-virus present (55% of patients with maraviroc 
treatment failure in the main studies) 
In 10 out of 16 patients studied phylogenetically similar CXCR4-tropic virus was shown to be 
present  at  baseline  (previously  not  detected),  when  reassessing  the  samples  with  a  higher 
sensitivity. In remaining 6 patients (baseline CXCR4-tropic virus still not found) the CXCR4-
tropic virus at failure was shown to be phylogenetically distant from the baseline CCR5-tropic 
virus, such that emergence of pre-treatment archived CXCR4-tropic virus was the most likely 
explanation. Hence, in line with the findings in vitro, patients failing with CXCR4-tropic virus 
during  maraviroc  treatment  seem  to  rebound  with  CXCR4-tropic  virus  already  present  in 
minor populations prior to starting maraviroc therapy, rather than with R5-virus that mutated 
to X4-virus.  
2. 
Maraviroc  treated  patients  failing  with  CCR5-tropic  virus  only  (30%  of  patients  with 
maraviroc treatment failure in the main studies) 
Phenotypic  analysis:  In  patients  with  exclusively  CCR5-tropic  virus  at  time  of  treatment 
failure  with  maraviroc,  15  out  of  36  patients  studied  had  a  virus  with  reduced  sensitivity  to 
maraviroc (MPI < 95%). The IC50 values for the same 15 samples varied from unchanged to 
above  maximum. In the remaining 21 patients, there  was no evidence of virus  with reduced 
sensitivity as identified on a representative group of patients. The latter appears to be related 
to poor compliance.  
A  clinically  validated  cut-off  value  for  reduced  virological  response  has  not  yet  been 
established. Therefore, continued use of maraviroc after treatment failure can not be generally 
recommended regardless of the viral tropism seen. 
Baseline samples and samples from the 25 patients failing with placebo were all sensitive to 
maraviroc. 
©EMEA 2007 
27/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotypic analyses: Patients with CCR5-tropic virus at failure and a reduced MPI (<95%), all 
had amino acid changes in the gp120 genome compared to baseline. However, the mutations 
were in different positions for each patient. 
Cross-resistance:  The  viruses  from  patients  failing  with  maraviroc  remained  sensitive  to 
enfuvirtide, unless enfuvirtide was a part of the failing regimen.  
In summary, some patients failing with CCR5-tropic virus (no CXCR4-tropic virus present at failure) 
show  reduced  sensitivity  to  maraviroc,  while  others  fail  with  R5-strains  still  fully  sensitive  in  vitro. 
Maximal  percentage  inhibition,  rather  than  traditional  phenotypic  fold  change,  seems  to  correlate  to 
drug  susceptibility.  Due  to  the  hypervariablility  of  the  gp120  genome  it  will  be  difficult,  if  at  all 
possible, to find a genotypic correlate of resistance. The present analyses are based on low numbers, 
and the applicant needs to continue the analyses of CCR5-tropic failure. 
The  further  analyses  of  the  resistance  pattern  using  evolving  clinical  data  is  one  of  the  follow-up 
measures to be addressed by the applicant. 
Testing of viral tropism 
The assessment of viral tropism was carried out using an in vitro phenotypic assay (TrofileTM HIV 
Entry Tropism assay).  
In  mixing  experiments,  a  10%  mix  of  X4-virus  could  be  detected  with  100%  sensitivity,  while  the 
presence  of  a  5%  mix  with  83%  sensitivity.  The  assay  has  a  lower  limit  of  sensitivity  for  reliable 
amplification of 1000 copies of HIV-1 RNA/mL.   
The following was of special interest for the CHMP: 
−  The majority of patients failing with maraviroc in the clinical trials had X4-virus at rebound, 
− 
despite having been negative for X4 at baseline. 
In  the  main  studies  8%  of  patients  negative  for  X4-virus  at  screening  were  found to be  X4-
positive at baseline (around 6 weeks later). Hence, the sensitivity of the assay in the individual 
case and the unpredictable course of viral tropism are remaining obstacles.  
−  Switching therapy (despite full viral suppression) due to side effects etc, is common in clinical 
practise. For other antiretroviral compounds this can be done by analysis of treatment history 
and prior resistance tests. In the case of maraviroc this might not be the case; the viral tropism 
cannot be predicted without the test (minimum viral load of 500-1000 copies/mL), and testing 
prior (frozen) specimens has not been explored. 
Switching therapy with maraviroc was also addressed by the SAG HIV/Viral Diseases on request of 
the CHMP. The experts were asked for their recommendation with regard to switching a compound to 
maraviroc  in  virologically  suppressed  patients,  whether  they  would  consider  it  appropriate  to 
recommend  a  short  period  treatment  interruption  (i.e.  for  about  10  days)  to  enable  viral  load  to 
increase enough for viral tropism to be tested, and how they would consider their recommendation to 
be adequately addressed in the SmPC. 
The SAG concluded that in general switching of virologically suppressed patients to maraviroc is not 
recommended  since  tropism  cannot  be  determined.  Treatment  interruption  strategies  to  detect  viral 
tropism in virologically suppressed patients was considered not appropriate due to the risk of clinical 
events,  possible  emergence  of  resistance  and  future  treatment  options.  The  SmPC  should  include 
wording  regarding  this  issue  stating  that  switching  from  a  medicinal  product  of  a  different 
antiretroviral  class  to  CELSENTRI  in  virologically  suppressed  patients  is  not  recommended  as  viral 
tropism cannot be determined in fully suppressed patients. It was nevertheless supported that this topic 
is going to be investigated further by the applicant in future clinical trials. 
The  CHMP  was  concerned  about  the  availability  of  the  tropism  assay  for  the  use  of  the  medicinal 
product.  The  applicant  did  commit  to  ensure  that  adequate  logistical  arrangements  are  set  up  in  all 
EU/EEA Member States to provide physicians with necessary access to the assay. 
©EMEA 2007 
28/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the applicant will be exploring possible alternative assays as a follow-up measure. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other antiretroviral compounds 
There  was  no  evidence  of  antagonistic  interactions  with  the  22  licensed  and  developmental 
compounds tested. The effects were additive for all compounds tested. 
Pharmacogenomic interactions 
The primary endpoint (HIV-RNA change from baseline) by CCR5 ∆32-carriage was analysed. Around 
7%  of  patients  were  heterozygous  for  the  deletion.  The  efficacy  by  week  24  was  not  significantly 
affected by this genotype. 
Secondary pharmacology 
The (host cell) CCR5- receptor belongs to a family of chemochine-binding receptors, CCR5 being the 
receptor  for  MIP-1-alpha/beta,  RANTES  and  several  other  chemochines.  These  chemochines  are 
involved  in  the  inflammatory  response  at  several  levels.  These  chemochines  are  involved  in  the 
inflammatory  response  at  several  levels  including  priming  of  innate/adaptive  immune  response, 
chemotaxis and cell migration. In the presence of maraviroc, CCR5-mediated chemochine activity is 
blocked,  as  measured  by intracellular  calcium  release  in  vitro.  Whether  a  block  of  this  receptor  is  a 
potential  safety  concern  is  currently  unknown  and  will  need  to  be  addressed  by  pharmacovigilance 
measures.  
Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic relationship 
No conventional population PKPD modelling has been performed on the Phase IIb/III data. The effect 
of  maraviroc  and  other  prognostic  factors  on  failure/non-failure  by  univariate  and  stepwise  search 
using  logistic  regression  and  generalized  additive  models  has  been  evaluated.  Exposure  was  more 
informative than dose group but no distinction between the concentration parameters Cave, Cmin and 
ECC was observed due to high correlation between the estimates. The univariate analysis suggested 
that the probability of failure (>50 copies/ml) is constant above an average concentration of maraviroc 
of  approximately  150-200  ng/ml  and  that  the  probability  of  failure  increases  dramatically  below  an 
average concentration of approximately 100 ng/ml, which would imply that dose adjustments resulting 
in lower exposure should not be done without proper supporting data.  
A semi-mechanistic model based on receptor binding theory was developed which could explain the 
difference in concentration where 50% of the receptors are occupied (0.089 ng/ml) and concentration 
where  50%  of  the  infection  rate  is  inhibited  (7.65  ng/ml,  obtained  from  modelling  and  simulation). 
The virus can be regarded as a CCR5 agonist (as well as the response) and depending on the system 
efficiency only a small amount of free receptors is needed to keep the viral load intact which means 
that antagonists like maraviroc need to occupy a large extent (possibly >80%) of the receptors before 
an effect on viral load is seen.  
The developed plasma concentration - QTc model suggests that an increase in maraviroc concentration 
of  1000  ng/ml  is  expected  to  increase  QTc  interval  duration  with  0.97  msec  within  the  studied 
concentration range (up to 2360 ng/ml).  
The  estimated  relations  between  maraviroc  plasma  concentration  and  standing  systolic  or  diastolic 
blood pressure suggest a decrease of 3.87 mmHg (systolic) or 1.79 mmHg (diastolic) per 1000 ng/ml 
within the studied range of concentrations (0-2000 ng/ml) 
©EMEA 2007 
29/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Two  dose  response  studies  were  performed  in  patients  infected  with  CCR5  tropic  HIV-1  who  were 
either treatment-naïve or had been off antiretroviral treatment for a minimum of 8 weeks prior to study 
start  were  included  (A4001007  and  A4001015).  The  studies  were  randomised,  double-blind,  and 
placebo-controlled; both studies were of a similar design regarding drug administration and duration. 
Dose response was studied during 10-days monotherapy (n=84), at doses ranging from 25 mg QD to 
300 mg BID. 
The study objectives were to investigate:  
−  Short term viral efficacy (monotherapy); 
−  PK/PD relationship with regard to: plasma drug concentration, CCR5 saturation, in vitro 
IC50/90; 
−  Efficacy seen with QD vs BID dosing; 
−  Effect of food. 
Viral tropism was determined by an in vitro phenotypic assay (TrofileTM HIV Entry Tropism assay). 
Patients received double-blind study drug daily at the study visit for 10 days with follow up visits at 
Days 11-13, 15, 20, 25 and 40.  
The dosing was for  
−  Study A4001007: 25 mg QD, 50 mg BID, 100 mg BID, 300 mg BID or placebo (all in fasted 
state); 
−  Study A4001015: 150 mg BID (fasted and fed state), 100 mg QD (fasted), 300 mg QD 
(fasted) or placebo. 
The baseline demographics were similar between treatment arms and studies (Table 7). 
Table 7 
Baseline demographics, studies A4001007 and A4001015 combined 
Age, mean  
male gender 
white race  
Cd4+ cells/mL, mean (range) 
HIV-RNA log10 copies/mL 
A4001007: 34    A4001015: 38 
80/82 
76/82 
544 (205-1137) 
4.6 (3.6-5.6) 
A  statistically  significantly  larger  decrease  (10%  significance  level)  in  HIV-1  RNA  level  from 
baseline compared with placebo was seen for all maraviroc dose groups, Figure 2 and Table 8.   
©EMEA 2007 
30/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2  Change from Baseline in HIV-1 RNA (log10 copies/mL)  
Table 8  Mean Change from Baseline in HIV-1 RNA at Day 11  
Dose 
No. of Patients 
25 mg QD 
50 mg BID 
100 mg QD 
100 mg BID 
150 mg BID 
150 mg BID (fed)
300 mg QD 
300 mg BID 
Placebo (1007) 
Placebo (1015) 
Randomised 
9 
8 
9 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
12 
4 
Treated for 10 Day
8 
8 
8 
7 
8 
8 
8 
8 
12 
4 
Mean (Range) Change in HIV-1 RN
(log10 copies/mL) 
-0.43a   (-1.08, 0.02) 
-0.66    (-1.37, 0.40) 
-1.13    (-1.70, -0.43) 
-1.42    (-1.84, -1.04) 
-1.45    (-1.71, -0.90) 
-1.34    (-1.79, -0.51) 
-1.35    (-1.62, -0.95) 
-1.60 b   (-2.42, -0.78) 
0.02     (-0.45, 0.56) 
0.09     (-0.20, 0.27) 
a P=0.056 compared with placebo; b P<0.01 compared with placebo (Williams step down test). 
NB: Fasted when not otherwise stated 
Maraviroc  as  10-day  monotherapy  resulted  in  a  mean  maximum  reduction  in  HIV-1  RNA  of  ≥1.6 
log10  copies/mL  at  all  doses  ≥200  mg  total  daily  dose,  with  a  maximum  reduction  occurring  at  a 
median  of  10-15  days.  These  effects  on  viral  load  appeared  to  be  independent  of  dosing  frequency 
(QD or BID). Evaluation of safety data from the Phase 1/2a studies identified postural hypotension as 
the  dose-limiting  adverse  event,  occurring  at  a  frequency  greater  than  placebo  at  unit  doses  of 
>300 mg and was associated with Cmax rather than AUC.  
Based on these data, it was decided that exposure at a 300 mg dose equivalent would give an optimal 
balance  between  safety  and  efficacy,  and  doses  of  300 mg  QD  and  300 mg  BID  were  selected  for 
further  study.    This  dose  selection  was  acceptable  for  the  CHMP.  Although  no  difference  was  seen 
with doses of 100 mg BID and higher, maraviroc is a substrate for both CYP3A and p-glycoprotein 
hence it appears reasonable to choose a dosage that is likely to provide a safety margin of exposure 
with other concomitant interacting compounds. 
•  Main studies 
Two  identical  double-blind  randomized  trials  in  treatment  experienced  patients  with  CCR5-tropic 
HIV-1  comparing  maraviroc  300  mg  QD  versus  maraviroc  300  mg  BID  versus  placebo  (2:2:1; 
n=1076), all in combination with Optimised Background Therapy (OBT), have been conducted: 
−  MOTIVATE 1 (A4001027) 
−  MOTIVATE 2 (A4001028) 
The studies were performed in North America, Europe and Australia at 239 study sites. 
©EMEA 2007 
31/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS (FOR BOTH STUDIES) 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria were: 
−  CCR5 tropic HIV-1 at baseline (Trofile™ HIV Entry Tropism assay)  
−  Minimum 6 months of prior treatment with at least 1 agent (2 agents for PIs) from 3 of the 4 
antiretroviral drug classes or documented resistance to three of the four antiretroviral drug 
classes (by virologic genotypic/phenotypic assay).  
−  Plasma HIV-1 RNA ≥5000 copies/mL while failing therapy or while not on therapy.  
−  Stable regimen (or no regimen) for a minimum of 4 weeks prior to screening. 
−  Age > 16 years. 
The detection of CXCR4 tropic HIV-1 at baseline (dual/mixed) led to exclusion from participation.  
Other main exclusion criteria were  
−  prior treatment with maraviroc or other CCR5-inhibitor for more than 14 days 
−  patients requiring > 6 antiretroviral agents (excluding low-dose ritonavir) in the OBT 
−  active untreated OI, acute hepatitis 
−  moderate to severe ischemic cardiac disease (these criteria withdrawn by amendment 2) 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised to receive maraviroc 300 mg QD or BID dose equivalent or placebo all in 
combination with Optimised Background Therapy (OBT), without food restrictions (Table 9). 
Maraviroc is a substrate for CYP3A4/P-gp and therefore, the dose was adjusted to maraviroc 150 mg 
QD or BID in those patients receiving a PI (except for tipranavir/ritonavir – by amendment 2) and/or 
delavirdine in their OBT due to the increased exposure of maraviroc observed in the presence of these 
co-administered antiretrovirals.  
Table 9 
Treatment Group 
Daily blinded study treatments administered  
Morning Treatment  Regimen  Evening Treatment Regimen 
Maraviroc 300 mga QD + OBT 
Maraviroc 300 mga BID + OBT 
Matching Placebo + OBT 
a Patients whose OBT included a PI (except tipranavir/ritonavir) and/or delavirdine received maraviroc 150 mg 
QD or 150 mg BID.  
Placebo 
Maraviroc 300 mg 
Placebo 
Maraviroc 300 mg 
Maraviroc 300 mg 
Placebo 
Choice  of  Optimised  Background  Therapy  (OBT):  Investigators  chose  OBT  with  3-6  approved 
antiretroviral  agents  (low  dose  ritonavir  not  counted),  based  on  the  results  of  resistance  testing, 
treatment history and safety/tolerability considerations. The protocol recommended that patients with 
efavirenz  in  their  OBT  should  also  receive  a  boosting  PI  (by  amendment  2),  to  balance  the  CYP-
induction  by  efavirenz.  Experimental  antiretroviral  agents  available  through  pre-approval  access 
programs  or  other  means  were  permitted  as  part  of  OBT  provided  that  adequate  information  was 
available  to  allow  for  safe  co-administration.  Changes  to  background  therapy  could  be  made  within 
the  first  two  weeks,  in  consultation  with  the  medical  monitor,  due  to  mistakes  in  interpretation  of 
screening  resistance  results.  After  the  first  two  weeks  changes  to  background  therapy  could  only  be 
made  for  reasons  of  toxicity,  when  a  drug  could  be  switched  for  another  compound  from  the  same 
anti-retroviral drug class.   
Rescue  therapy:  Subjects  meeting  the  criteria  for  treatment  failure  or  stopping  for  other  reasons 
(pregnancy, adverse event) and requiring an alternative regimen, are followed until week 48 according 
to protocol. For patients whose virus still remains CCR5-tropic and potentially sensitive to maraviroc, 
open-label (OL) study drug may be continued during this period.  
©EMEA 2007 
32/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
−  Primary  objective:  to  confirm  superior  viral  reduction  (mean  changes  from  baseline  in  log10 
plasma HIV-1 RNA) with maraviroc + OBT compared to OBT alone at week 24. 
−  Secondary  objective:  safety  and  tolerability  of  maraviroc  when  given  in  combination  with 
OBT versus OBT alone. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint: Change from baseline in log10 HIV-1 RNA at week 24. 
Secondary  Endpoints:  For  each  of  the  two  maraviroc  dosing  regimens  (QD  and  BID)  versus  the 
placebo regimen, to compare: 
(a) The percentage of subjects with an HIV-1 RNA <400 copies/mL at Week 24; 
(b) The percentage of subjects with an HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL at Week 24;  
(c) The percentage of subjects who achieved at least a 0.5 log10 reduction in HIV-1 RNA from 
baseline or <400 copies/mL at Week 24;  
(d) The percentage of subjects who achieved at least a 1.0 log10 reduction in HIV-1 RNA from 
baseline or <400 copies/mL at Week 24; 
(e) The differences in the magnitude of change in CD4 cell count from baseline to Week 24;  
(f) The differences in the magnitude of change in CD8 cell count from baseline to Week 24; 
(g) The Time-Averaged Difference (TAD) in log10 HIV-1 RNA at Week 24;  
(h) To assess HIV-1 genotype and phenotype at baseline and at the time of failure. 
Additional Endpoints: 
−  To assess HIV-1 tropism at baseline and at the time of failure; 
−  To assess the association between baseline resistance and virological response; 
−  To compare the safety and tolerability of each of the two maraviroc regimens versus the 
placebo regimen. 
Treatment failure was defined by any one of the following virological endpoints: 
1) An increase to at least 3 times the baseline (mean of 3 values before start of dosing) plasma 
HIV-1 RNA level at the Week 2 visit or thereafter (confirmed by a second measurement taken 
no more than 14 days after the first measurement); 
2) HIV-1 RNA <0.5 log10 decrease from baseline (mean of 3 values before start of dosing) on 
two consecutive measurements starting at Week 8 (second measurement taken no more than 
14 days after the first measurement); 
3) HIV-1 RNA <1.0 log10 decrease from baseline (mean of 3 values before start of dosing) on 
two consecutive measurements starting at Week 8 (second measurement taken no more than 
14 days after the first measurement), in a patient who had previously achieved a ≥2.0 log10 
decrease from baseline; or 
4) An increase in HIV-1 RNA to ≥5,000 copies/mL on two consecutive measurements taken 
no more than 14 days apart, in subjects previously confirmed to have undetectable levels of 
<400 copies/mL on 2 consecutive visits. 
Sample size 
A total of 1000 patients were to be randomised into the two studies to provide adequate numbers to 
demonstrate  safety and efficacy. Initial plans were to recruit 500 patients into each study. However, 
difficulties in recruitment into study 1028 meant that differences in the recruitment rate between the 
studies  were  increasing  over  time.  This  was  felt  to  be  problematic,  as  patients  recruited  later  may 
differ, due to access to new drugs Hence North American sites were included into study 1028, which 
was initially restricted to Europe and Australia. Sample sizes were adjusted accordingly (600 and 400 
patients respectively). 
©EMEA 2007 
33/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
Randomisation  was  performed  by  computer  generated  pseudo-random  code  using  the  method  of 
permutated  blocks,  balanced  within  each  randomisation  strata  (screening  HIV-1  RNA  ≥100,000 
copies/mL  and  using  enfuvirtide,  screening  HIV-1  RNA  ≥100,000  copies/mL  and  not  using 
enfuvirtide etc). 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was conducted double-blind. The maraviroc/placebo treatment was unblinded to the sponsor 
at  week  24,  while  the  investigators/patients  remain  blinded  until  the  last  subject  has  completed 
48 weeks of therapy. Investigators could only break the blind in case of emergency. 
The OBT was administered as open-label therapy. 
Statistical methods 
Two analysis populations were used to determine efficacy at 24  weeks – Full Analyses Set and Per 
Protocol Population.  
The  Full  Analysis  Set  (FAS)  population:  all  randomised  patients  who  received  at  least  1  study  drug 
dose.  Two patients were, due to mistake, not given the randomized treatment. Hence, in practise ‘As 
Randomised’ and ‘As Treated’ will give the same results. The results of FAS – As Treated population 
are presented below.  
Negative values for change from baseline indicated a benefit of treatment and negative values for the 
maraviroc  comparison  to  placebo  indicated  an  advantage  of  treatment  with  maraviroc  compared  to 
OBT alone. If the 2-sided 97.5% confidence interval was completely to the left side and completely 
excluded zero the superiority of maraviroc in comparison to placebo was concluded. 
Primary  endpoint: baseline  HIV-RNA  was  calculated  as  the  mean  of  all  three  values  before  start  of 
dosing (screening, randomization, pre-dose). All values were log-transformed before calculation.  
An  ANCOVA  model  was  used  with  baseline  randomization  values  (<  or  >  100.000  HIV-RNA 
cps/mL,  use  of  enfuvirtide)  and  treatment  group  as  main  effects.  The  least  squares  mean  difference 
between maraviroc dose group and placebo is presented. For study subjects who discontinued therapy 
(apart from protocol defined treatment failure), the final value was imputed as baseline (i.e. no change 
from baseline). The same was done for subjects with missing baseline values: 
−  For  patients  on  therapy  and  with  an  assessment  of  baseline  viral  load,  the  last  observation 
carried forward approach was used. 
−  For patients with treatment failure, the last observation carried forward was used. 
Secondary endpoints: the last observation carried forward at each visit was used. A Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel test was performed and 97.5% confidence intervals for the difference in percentage between 
maraviroc  treatment  arms  and  placebo  are  presented,  with  adjustment  based  on  the  randomization 
data. 
The variables were also analyzed using logistic regression including randomization strata. 
Change in CD4+ cell count was analyzed using an ANCOVA model. 
©EMEA 2007 
34/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
An overview of the patient flow is provided in Figure 3. 
Figure 3 
Patient flow in studies A4001027 and A4001028  
Screened 
1027 N= 1816 
1028 N= 1428 
Randomised 
1027 N= 601 
1028 N= 475 
Treated 
1027 N= 585 
1028 N= 464 
Maraviroc QD 
1027 N= 232 
1028 N= 182 
Maraviroc BID 
1027 N= 235 
1028 N= 191 
Placebo 
1027 N= 118 
1028 N= 91 
1027: 
Reached 24 weeks  N= 149 (64%) 
1028: 
Reached 24 weeks  N= 122 (67%) 
1027: 
Reached 24 weeks  N= 155 (66%)
1028: 
Reached 24 weeks  N= 133 (70%)
1027: 
Reached 24 weeks   N= 44 (37%)
1028: 
Reached 24 weeks  N= 32 (35%) 
Seven patients were erroneously included in the studies as they did not have a CCR5 tropism result at 
screening. 
Some  patients  included  had  a  change  in  viral  tropism  between  screening  and  baseline  (4-6  weeks 
duration  between  these  two  occasions):  79  patients  well  balanced  according  to  randomization  (~8% 
per treatment arm). They are included in the analyses to follow; if not it is stated as such. 
Recruitment 
The details regarding recruitment (time periods and locations) are summarised in Table 10. 
Table 10  Location and time for study inclusion 
Study 
A4001027 
Inclusion start 
Nov 11 2004 
Cut off date 
Sept 15 2006 
Location  
US 
Canada 
Puerto Rico 
Sites (no)  
90 
15  
2    (total 107) 
No´s randomized 
528 
67 
6  (total 601) 
A4001028 
Dec 17 2004 
Sept 15 2006 
Europe (10 
countries) 
Australia 
US 
75 
11 
46 (total 132) 
283 
42 
150  (total 475) 
Conduct of the study 
There  were  no  changes  in  the  planned  analyses.  The  applicant  provided  a  statement  that  the  studies 
were undertaken according to good clinical practise. 
©EMEA 2007 
35/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendments  #2  (study  1027:  December  2005;  study  1028:  February  2006)  was  important  for  the 
conduct and analysis of the studies; the key features were: 
−  Addition of interaction study results with tipranavir/ritonavir: 
−  Addition of interaction study results with efavirenz: 
−  Removal of several exclusion criteria with regards to cardiovascular disease. 
Baseline data 
Baseline  characteristics  were  similar  between  studies  and  treatment  arms  (Table  11).  The  study 
population was heavily treatment experienced; i.e. 50% of patients had ≤1 drug considered to be active 
in  the  OBT.  Demographics  were  quite  homogenous;  the  vast  majority  of  patients  were  middle-aged 
white men with HIV subtype B. The proportion of patients with hepatits B/C co-infection was low. 
Table 11  Patient Demographics and Baseline Characteristics (Studies A4001027 and 
A4001028) 
Characteristic 
N 
Male Sex, n (%) 
White Race, n (%) 
Mean Age (range), yrs 
Maraviroc 
QD 
232 
210 (91) 
187 (81) 
46 
(19-75) 
14.0 
(1.0-27.8) 
168 
(1– 812) 
4.85 
(0.641) 
Study A4001027 
Maraviroc 
BID 
235 
212 (90) 
197 (84) 
46 
(25-69) 
13.9  
(2.3-24.3) 
150 
(2 – 678) 
4.86 
(0.614) 
Placebo 
118 
106 (90) 
99 (84) 
46  
(31-71) 
14.3 
(3.4-25.1) 
163 
(1 – 675) 
4.84 
(0.556) 
Maraviroc 
QD 
182 
153 (84) 
149 (82) 
45.2 
(17-75) 
14.3 
(5.1-23.1) 
174 
(1 – 966) 
4.87 
(0.664) 
Study A4001028 
Maraviroc 
BID 
191 
170 (89) 
166 (87) 
47.0 
(21-73) 
13.8 
(4.1-26.1) 
182 
(3 – 820) 
4.84 
(0.621) 
Mean Duration of Diagnosis 
(years) 
Median CD4 Cell Count 
(range), cells/µL 
Mean HIV-1 RNA (SD), 
log10 copies/mL 
Genotypic Sensitivity Score 1    
n (%) 
    0 
    1 
    2 
    ≥3 
1 Monogram Biosciences PhenoSense™ GT assay (for NRTI/NNRTI,PI); British Columbia Centre for 
Excellence in HIV using gp41 sequencing (for enfuvirtide) 
31 (26.3) 
29 (24.6) 
21 (17.8) 
34 (28.8) 
43 (22.5) 
58 (30.4) 
32 (16.8) 
57 (29.8) 
59 (25.1) 
80 (34.0) 
48 (20.4) 
47 (20.0) 
39 (21.4) 
64 (35.2) 
25 (13.7) 
52 (28.6) 
52 (22.4) 
82 (35.3 
38 (16.4) 
57 (24.6) 
Placebo 
91 
79 (87) 
79 (87) 
45.3 
(29-72) 
14.4 
(4.1-24.0) 
174 
(2 – 545) 
4.89 
(0.696) 
20 (22.0) 
24 (26.4) 
20 (22.0) 
25 (27.5) 
Of patients eligible for screening, 45% were excluded due to the presence of X4-virus. This underlines 
the central role of a valid and sufficiently sensitive assay. 
Numbers analysed 
Table 12 outlines the number of patients analysed. Treatment discontinuations were similar between 
all maraviroc arms, with lack of efficacy as the major cause. 
Table 12  Patient evaluation groups  
Number of Patients 
Maraviroc 
QD 
232 
83 (35.8) 
49 (21.1) 
149 (64.2) 
232 (100.0) 
Number Treated 
Discontinuations, n (%) 
   Due to Lack of Efficacy, n (%) 
Ongoing at Week 24, n (%) 
Evaluated for Efficacy, n (%) 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study A4001027 
Maraviroc 
BID 
235 
80 (34.0) 
56 (23.8) 
155 (66.0) 
235 (100.0) 
Placebo 
118 
74 (62.7) 
59 (50.0) 
44 (37.3) 
118 (100.0) 
Maraviroc 
QD 
182 
60 (33.0) 
32 (17.6) 
122 (67.0) 
182 (100.0) 
Study A4001028 
Maraviroc 
BID 
191 
58 (30.4) 
35 (18.3) 
133 (69.6) 
191 (100.0) 
Placebo 
91 
59 (64.8) 
47 (51.6) 
32 (35.2) 
91 (100.0) 
©EMEA 2007 
36/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maraviroc was overall superior to placebo and in all subsets of patients. The 24-week data included in 
the initial MAA dossier is summarised in Tables 13-14. 
Table 13 
Summary of main results at week 24, studies A4001027 and A4001028 
HIV-RNA change from BL 
 (log10 copies/mL) adj mean  
CI 97.5% difference 
≥ 1 log change HIV-RNA,  
n (%)  
< 50 cps/mL 
Maraviroc QD 
(N= 232) 
A4001027 
Maraviroc BID 
(N= 235) 
Placebo 
(N= 118) 
Maraviroc QD 
(N= 182) 
A4001028 
Maraviroc BID 
(N= 191) 
Placebo 
(N= 91) 
-1.80  
-1.95  
-1.01  
-1.94  
-1.97  
-0.90  
[-1.15, -0.43] 
15 (68.5) 
[-1.29, -0.58] 
166 (70.6) 
55 (46.6) 
[-1.45, -0.64] 
128 (70.3) 
[-1.48, -0.67] 
137 (71.7) 
32 (35.2) 
98 (42.2) 
114 (48.5) 
29 (24.6) 
84 (46.2) 
79 (41.4) 
19 (20.9) 
Since no relevant difference in baseline characteristics (Table 11), proportion of dropouts (Table 12) 
and outcome (Table 13) are seen between the two studies, further presentation of outcome parameters 
will only be provided for the pooled analyses (Full Analyses Set – As treated). 
Table 14  Main efficacy results at week 24, studies A4001027 and A4001028 combined 
HIV-RNA change from BL  
adj. mean log10 copies/mL, (se) 
>= 1 log reduction  
or < 400 cps/mL , % 
Maraviroc QD (414) 
-1.88 (0.07) 
[CI 97.5%: -1.15, -0.62] 
Maraviroc BID (426) 
-1.96 (0.07) 
[CI 97.5%: -1.24, -0.71] 
Placebo (209) 
-0.99 (0.09) 
65.7 (272/414) 
69.2 (295/426) 
35.9 (75/209) 
VL < 400 cps/mL, % 
55.1 (228/414) 
61.0 (260/426) 
27.8 (58/209) 
VL < 50 cps/mL,  % 
44 (182/414) 
45.3 (193/426) 
23 (48/209) 
Increase Cd4+ T-cells; adjusted 
mean cells/uL (se) 
108.6 (5.3) 
106.3 (5.3) 
57.4 (7.5) 
During the assessment and on request of the CHMP, the applicant provided additional 48-week data 
particularly outlining the proportion of patients with HIV-RNA < 50 copies/mL, total and per CD4-
strata (Tables 15-18). 
Table 15  Outcomes of randomised treatment at week 48 (pooled studies A4001027 and 
A4001028) 
Outcomes 
HIV-1 RNA 
Change from baseline 
(log10 copies/mL) 
Proportion of patients with HIV 
RNA <400 copies/ml 
Proportion of patients with HIV 
RNA <50 copies/ml 
CD4+ cell count 
Change from baseline (cells/mm3) 
CELSENTRI 300 mg 
twice daily 
+ OBT 
     N=426 
-1.84 
56.1% 
45.5% 
OBT  
alone 
N=209 
-0.78 
22.5% 
16.7% 
124.07 
60.93 
Treatment Difference1 
 (Confidence Interval2) 
-1.05 
(-1.33, -0.78) 
Odds ratio: 4.76 
(3.24, 7.00) 
Odds ratio: 4.49 
(2.96, 6.83) 
63.13 
(44.28, 81.99) 
1 p-values < 0.0001 
2 For all efficacy endpoints the confidence intervals were 95%, except for HIV-1 RNA Change from baseline which was 
97.5% 
©EMEA 2007 
37/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16  HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL at Weeks 24 and 48 by CD4+ cell count at baseline, 
studies A4001027 and A4001028 combined 
Baseline Cd4 
(cells/µL) 
All             Wk 24 
                  Wk 48 
<50            Wk 24 
                  Wk 48 
50-100       Wk24 
                  Wk48 
101-200     Wk24 
                  Wk48 
201-350     Wk24 
                  Wk48 
≥350          Wk 24 
                  Wk 48 
Maraviroc QD  
(N= 414) 
%            (n)  
44.0 
47.8 
10.6        (9)  
15.5        (13) 
45.1        (23) 
37.7        (19) 
50.5        (47) 
41.1        (39) 
63.8        (74) 
68.7        (79) 
66.1        (41) 
71           (44) 
Maraviroc BID  
(N= 426) 
%              (n) 
45.3 
48.5 
20.0          (17) 
16.5          (14) 
40.0           (22)  
36.4           (20) 
49.0           (51) 
56.7           (59) 
62.9           (73) 
57.8           (67) 
64.4           (38) 
72.9           (43) 
Placebo  
(N= 209) 
%              (n) 
23.0 
19.3 
2.7            (1) 
2.6            (1) 
16.0          (4 ) 
12              (3) 
28.6          (16) 
21.8          (12) 
29.0          (18) 
21.0          (13) 
42.3          (11) 
38.5          (10) 
Table 17  Proportions with HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL at Weeks 24 and 48 by baseline viral 
load, studies A4001027 and A4001028 combined 
Maraviroc QD 
(N=414)  
Maraviroc BID 
(N=426) 
Placebo 
 (N=209) 
<100,000 
    Wk 24  
    Wk 48  
≥100,000 
    Wk 24  
    Wk 48 
61.3  
58.8  
28.2  
32.4 
57.6   
58.4 
34.7   
34.7    
34.2    
26.0 
10.7   
9.5     
Table 18  Change in CD4 + cell count (cells/uL, median and range) from baseline to week 48 
(LOCF), studies A4001027 and A4001028 combined 
Baseline 
 CD4 Cell Count 
(cells/µL) 
<50 
50-100 
101-200 
201-350 
≥350 
Maraviroc QD  
(N= 414) 
Maraviroc BID  
(N= 426) 
Placebo  
(N= 209) 
43         (-31, 466) 
102       (-12, 363) 
92         (-52, 564) 
116       (-193, 444) 
124       (-250, 430) 
62       (-29, 486) 
103     (-70, 324) 
125     (-40, 455) 
102     (-157, 516) 
142     (-218, 778) 
7       (-13, 421) 
20     (-47, 422) 
32     (-134, 319) 
58     (-185, 522) 
123   (-301, 457) 
Overall, efficacy results are durable also in patients with low CD4-counts at baseline. The clustering 
of factors predictive of poor response is notable in the < 50 CD4-count stratum, especially high viral 
load, but also GSS. For the interpretation of study data in relation to other compounds tested in similar 
groups of patients, the very poor results in the placebo group should be taken into account (darunavir 
and partly tipranavir not being used). In this context, the results, including those seen in patients with 
aggregated  risk  factors,  are  considered  clinically  relevant.  As  regards  dosing,  the  BID  dose  appears 
favourable from an efficacy perspective in those patients at highest risk of treatment failure. 
The majority of patients failing with maraviroc showed X4-virus at rebound, while the vast majority 
failing with placebo still had R5-tropic virus (Table 19). 
©EMEA 2007 
38/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19  Viral tropism at time of treatment failure (for patients with R5-virus at baseline) 
      X4 
Non-typeable 
  R5 
maraviroc QD, n=56 
maraviroc BID, n=57  
placebo, n=89  
18 (32%) 
17 (30%)  
80 (90%) 
  All 
31 (55%) 
32 (56%) 
4 (4%) 
X4 
8  
7  
0 
Dual/mixed 
23  
25 
4  
7 (13%) 
8 (14%) 
5 (6%) 
X4-virus has been associated with immunological deterioration in the natural course of HIV-infection, 
although  a  cause  relationship  has  not  been  established.  The  CHMP  therefore  asked  the  applicant  to 
provide additional data on patients from the pivotal trials who failed with X4-virus during maraviroc 
therapy and who were available for follow-up on the viral tropism over time; these data is summarised 
in Table 20. 
Table 20  Viral tropism at last follow up visit following discontinuation for patients with R5-
virus at baseline and X4-virus at failure, studies A4001027 and A4001028 combined 
Tropism at 
last follow-up 
R5 
N 
Days of Follow-up, median (range) 
DM/X4 
N 
Days of Follow-up, median (range) 
MVC QD  MVC BID  MVC all 
Placebo 
14 
182 
(19-293) 
16 
207 
(24-295) 
30 
203 
(19-295) 
9 
11a 
(1-267) 
5 
121b 
(1-203b) 
14 
16 
(1-267a,b) 
1 
20  
(N/A) 
2 
22 
(1-42) 
aIncludes one patient whose virus returned to R5-tropic by day 30 but was DM-tropic at last follow up (day 267) 
bIncludes one patient whose virus returned to R5-tropic by day 35 but was DM-tropic at last follow up (day203) 
and one patient whose virus returned to R5-tropic by day 22 but was X4-tropic at last follow up (day 196) 
When  stopping  maraviroc  treatment,  30/44  reverted  back  to  R5-virus.  Of  those  patients  still  having 
X4-virus present, the follow-up time was either quite short (n=11), or the tropism was switching back 
and forth (n=3). 
About  1/3  patients  with  X4-virus  failure  left  the  study,  which  might  introduce  a  selection  bias. 
However,  patient  characteristics  (e.g  CD4  count  at  baseline  and  failure,  and  HIV-RNA  at  baseline) 
were similar between those leaving and those remaining in study after X4-failure. Hence, the results 
seen in the patients studied (remaining in study OFF maraviroc) were considered as representative. 
Still the consequences of X4 failure is a subject for further follow-up within the pivotal trials and the 
ongoing study in treatment naive patients. Data will be hard to interpret not least, and as made evident 
during the screening phase for the pivotal studies, some of these patients are at risk of spontaneous R5 
– X4 switch due to the advanced stage of the HIV infection. 
These data were also presented to the SAG HIV/Viral Diseases on request of the CHMP. The experts 
were  asked  to  discuss  whether  the  proposed  follow-up  of  patients  failing  with  X4-virus  during 
maraviroc  therapy  in  the pivotal  studies  is  adequate  and  sufficient  to  address  the  issue  in treatment-
experienced patients. Furthermore, it was of interest what the SAG’s view is on the re-usage of CCR5-
inhibitors including maraviroc in patients who failed with X4-virus and reverted back to R5-virus, and 
how should this be addressed in the SmPC. 
The  SAG  felt  comfortable  with  the  proposal  to  follow-up  treatment-experienced  patients  from  the 
pivotal trials for 96 weeks in view of the reassuring data regarding X4- to R5 reversion. In addition, 
the  planned  5-year  data  from  naïve  patients  was  considered  to  provide  an  important  contribution. 
Together this data set was considered adequate and sufficient to further investigate the issue of tropism 
change. Due to the lack of availability of sufficient information the experts would not recommend the 
re-use  of  CCR5-antagonists,  including  maraviroc,  in  these  patients.  The  experts  would  hence 
recommend  that  the  SmPC  contains  information  about  the  fact  that  maraviroc  and  other  CCR5-
antagonists  should  not  be  used  in  patients  who  fail  with  X4  virus  and  revert  back  to  R5  when 
maraviroc therapy is stopped. 
©EMEA 2007 
39/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Tables  15-19  provide  the  result  of  various  ancillary  analyses  performed  in  order  to  address  the 
questions  raised  by  the  CHMP  during  the  assessment  to  further  investigate  the  possible  impact  of 
CD4+ cell count at baseline as well as baseline viral load. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  analysed  by  CCR5  ∆32  genotype  status  of  the  patient.  Of  all  patients 
randomized 7% were heterozygous for the CCR5 ∆32 deletion. No relevant differences were seen in 
the primary endpoint for patients with versus without the deletion. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Since no relevant difference in baseline characteristics, proportion of dropouts and outcome were seen 
between the two studies, the above presentation is mainly based on pooled analyses (Tables 14-20). 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
The patient population in the main studies was quite homogenous and no meaningful analyses can be 
undertaken regarding outcome by age, gender, race, HIV subtype and co-infection with hepatitis B/C. 
In the analyses presented no relevant differences in outcome were seen.  
•  Supportive study 
A supportive study was undertaken to evaluate the safety and antiviral activity of maraviroc in patients 
with non-CCR5 tropic (CXCR4-tropic [i.e. dual or mixed tropic] or non-phenotypeable) HIV-1 virus 
present at baseline. The design, methods and dosing were identical to those of the main studies (1:1:1, 
n=186). 
At  week  24,  no  harm  was  seen  with  regards  to  CD4-count  and  viral  load  in  patients  treated  with 
maraviroc as compared to placebo. 
This study has a limited impact on the overall risk/benefit analysis of  maraviroc. The findings were 
expected – as patients were positive for X4-virus already at baseline. Maraviroc should only be used in 
patients with CCR5-tropic virus, as assessed with sensitive assays. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In phase I studies 595 healthy subjects and 37 HIV-patients have been exposed to maraviroc in doses 
ranging from 1-1200 mg. In two multiple dose-finding phase II studies 66 HIV-patients were exposed 
to maraviroc (25-300 mg) for 10 days. 
Long  term  safety  data  (minimum  24  weeks)  was  obtained  in  the  main  and  supportive  studies.  In 
addition  to  the  three  previously  presented  studies  in  treatment  experienced  patients  (A4001027, 
A4001028  and  A4001029),  supportive  safety  data  (n=174)  was  provided  from  an  ongoing  study  in 
treatment  naïve  patients  (A4001026).  In  this  study  a  maraviroc  treatment  arm  (300  mg  QD)  was 
stopped due to an increased incidence of treatment failure and maraviroc 300 mg BID open-label was 
offered. 
For these studies (A4001027 and A4001028) all safety data on all patients to week 24 are reported to 
15 September 2006. All other safety data beyond Week 24 are reported to the Week 48 visit or to 11 
September 2006, whichever occurred earlier. Table 21 provides a calculation of the safety database. 
©EMEA 2007 
40/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21  Population for long-term safety assessment 
Safety data group 
Treatment experienced 
Total treated 
Total on maraviroc 
CCR5-tropic (A4001027, 1028) 
Non-CCR5 (A4001029) 
Open-label maraviroc 
Treatment naive (A4001026), supportive 
1049 
186 
     - 
     - 
840 
124    
109    
174 
A  total  of  964  treatment  experienced  patients  received  at  least  1  dose  of  maraviroc,  including  840 
CCR5-positive  patients  in  the  two  pivotal  studies.  In  the  two  pivotal  trials  (A4001027,  A4001028) 
patients  were  exposed  to  maraviroc  for  a  median  of  8  months  (Table  22);  the  total  exposure  (580 
patient years) was around 5-fold that of placebo exposure (124 patient years). 
Table 22  Maraviroc exposure in treatment experienced patients (studies A4001027, 
A4001028, A4001029#) 
___Maraviroc QD_____ 
_____Maraviroc BID___ 
Duration Categories 
(Days) 
N 
<1 
2-14 
15-28 
29-90 
91-180 
181-364 
≥365 
Median days (range) 
Total , patient-years 
Non-R5# 
63 
0 
0 
0 
19 
19 
25 
0 
R5 
414 
0 
5 
1 
51 
104 
248 
5 
236 (2-381)  119 (64-317)  239 (1-366) 
258.7 
R5 
426 
1 
5 
11 
53 
92 
262 
2 
266.8 
26.4 
Non-R5# 
61 
0 
1 
2 
12 
17 
29 
0 
176 (11-326)  145 (7-427) 
27.9 
________Placebo_________ 
R5 
209 
0 
2 
2 
64 
60 
80 
1 
Non-R5# 
62 
1 
2 
1 
20 
14 
24 
0 
127 (1-318) 
25.0 
99.3 
Of these patients, 80-90% received a unit dose of 150 mg, due to concomitant use of a boosted PI in 
OBT, with similar proportions in each maraviroc treatment arms in the different studies. 
The  patient  population  of  the  main  studies  was  very  homogenous  (Table  23).  Furthermore,  patients 
with verified ischemic heart disease were not allowed to be included until amendment 2 was imple-
mented in December 2005 (study A4001027) and February 2006 (study A4001028). By this time the 
vast majority of patients were already included. In study A4001029, such patients were never allowed. 
Table 23  Homogenous baseline characteristics in main studies (A4001027 and A4001028) 
Parameter 
Age < 65 years 
Male gender 
Race (%)   White 
                  Black 
                  Asian 
HIV subtype B   
HBV, HCV*  % (n) 
(in MVC-arms)    
*Defined as HCV RNA positive; HBsAg positive 
98% 
89% 
84 
14 
1 
94% 
5.9 (50),  5.3 (45) 
•  Adverse events  
Adverse  events  were  similar  in  frequency  and  character  in  patients  treated  with  maraviroc  and 
placebo, and were those expected in this treatment population. Furthermore, no relevant differences in 
adverse events (including serious AE) were seen in maraviroc given QD versus BID. 
Infections (upper respiratory and herpes simplex) were somewhat more common with maraviroc than 
with  placebo,  also  after  adjustment  of  exposure.  Herpes  simplex  as  a  manifestation  of  immune 
response  inflammatory  syndrome  (IRIS)  is  a  well-known  phenomenon  and  could  be  one  possible 
©EMEA 2007 
41/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
explanation  for  this  particular  finding.  AIDS-related  infections  and  malignancies  were  not  more 
common with maraviroc, and auto-immune disorders were not reported. 
The frequency of treatment-related adverse events was similar between treatment arms (Table 24). 
Table 24  Treatment-related adverse events reported in ≥2% of patients (studies A4001027 and 
A4001028), not adjusted for time of exposure. 
Placebo 
N (%) 
209 
93 (44.5) 
MVC QD 
N (%) 
414 
205 (49.5) 
MVC BID  
N (%)* 
426 
213 (50.0) 
11 (2.6) 
8 (1.9) 
13 (3.1) 
37 (8.7) 
10 (2.3) 
10 (2.3) 
51 (12.0) 
17 (4.0) 
2 (1.0) 
5 (2.4) 
3 (1.4) 
25 (12.0) 
2 (1.0) 
7 (3.3) 
24 (11.5) 
8 (3.8) 
11 (2.7) 
11 (2.7) 
10 (2.4) 
54 (13.0) 
2 (0.5) 
10 (2.4) 
39 (9.4) 
18 (4.3) 
System Organ Class 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Subjects Evaluable for AEs 
Subjects With AEs 
Gastrointestinal Dis. 
Abdominal pain 
Abdominal pain upper 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
General Dis.  
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Metabolism and Nutrition Dis. 
Anorexia 
Musculoskeletal/Connective Tissue Dis. 
Muscle spasms 
Myalgia 
Nervous System Dis. 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia (taste disturbance) 
Headache 
Psychiatric Disorders 
Insomnia 
Respiratory, Thoracic, Mediastinal Dis. 
Cough 
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Dis. 
Rash 
12 (2.9) 
NB: Treatment-related AEs occurring at a higher incidence than placebo (2% or 2-fold) highlighted. 
8 (3.8) 
2 (1.0) 
21 (10.0) 
21 (4.9) 
9 (2.1) 
30 (7.0) 
20 (4.8) 
1 (0.2) 
41 (9.9) 
9 (2.2) 
12 (2.9) 
31 (7.3) 
7 (1.6) 
24 (5.8) 
9 (2.2) 
16 (7.7) 
7 (3.3) 
6 (1.4) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (1.0) 
0 
18 (4.2) 
12 (2.9) 
14 (3.3) 
10 (2.4) 
9 (2.2) 
3 (1.4) 
1 (0.5) 
8 (1.9) 
9 (2.1) 
4 (1.9) 
5 (2.4) 
MVC, all  
N (%) 
840 
418 (49.8) 
22 (2.6) 
19 (2.3) 
23 (2.7) 
91 (10.8) 
12 (1.4) 
20 (2.4) 
90 (10.7) 
35 (4.2) 
55 (6.5) 
16 (1.9) 
21 (2.5) 
15 (1.8) 
14 (1.7) 
41 (4.9) 
10 (1.2) 
71 (8.5) 
24 (2.9) 
17 (2.0) 
30 (3.6) 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Some particular adverse events warrant special assessment. Block of the (host-) CCR5-receptor could 
cause  immune-related  side  effects  (infections,  auto-immune  disorders,  malignancies).  Maraviroc 
causes QT-prolongation at high concentrations, as well as postural hypotension. Furthermore, severe 
liver toxicity was seen with this class of compounds. 
Immune-related adverse events 
As indicated above, upper respiratory infections and herpes simplex infections was more common in 
maraviroc  treated  patients,  also  after  adjustment  of  exposure.  No  “uncommon”  infections  were 
reported.  No  relevant  difference  of  Category  C-infections  (AIDS-defining)  were  seen  between 
maraviroc and placebo. 
HIV  disease  itself  is  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  a  number  of  malignancies;  hence  the 
incidence  must  be  related  to  a  control-group.  Although  the  available  data  so  far  is  re-assuring, 
exposure  is  still  short  with  regards  to  developing  malignancies  and  hence  further  measures  are 
warranted to be addressed with the risk management plan (see section 3.5). 
©EMEA 2007 
42/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  did  consult  the  SAG  HIV/Viral  Diseases  on  the  potential  risk  of  immune  dysfunction 
(infections,  auto-immunity,  malignancies).  In  order  to  further  investigate  specific  safety  risks  it  is 
planned to set up a Maraviroc Safety Registry. The SAG was specifically asked whether they consider 
that  this  registry  is  adequate  to  further  explore  the  potential  risk  of  malignancies  as  part  of  the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan. 
The experts were not convinced that the pharmacovigilance and risk management strategy as proposed 
by  the  applicant  is  sufficient  to  address  the  potential  risk  of  malignancies.  Concerns  were  raised 
regarding the number of patients included as well as the duration of the follow up. Despite the possible 
ability  to  miss  an  important  increase  in  overall  risk  for  malignancies  it  was  noted  that  the  proposed 
study is unlikely to detect an important signal for specific Non –AIDS tumours. In addition concerns 
were  raised  that  the  proposed  observational  period  of  5  years  is  too  short  to  investigate  the  issue 
adequately. 
A  revised  study  proposal  including  an  enlarged  number  of  patients  in  the  registry  (2000  with 
maraviroc  and  1000  controls)  and  a  longer  duration  of  follow-up  (5  years),  which  can  be  extended 
even longer if found relevant by an external scientific committee, was proposed by the applicant. The 
data  will  also  be  compared  to  the  incidence  of  malignancies  found  in  a  large  HIV  cohort,  e.g.  the 
EUROSIDA or if feasible the D.A.D cohort. Taking into consideration the position of the SAG, the 
CHMP considered that the changes to the Maraviroc Safety Registry, which is an essential element of 
the risk management plan, adequately address the issue. 
Cardiac/circulatory adverse events 
In studies 1027 and 1028 ECGs were recorded at baseline, weeks 24 and 48, and at early termination. 
Mean  change  in  QTs  interval  from  baseline  was  similar  between  maraviroc  and  placebo.  QT-
prolongation and postural hypotension was not a significant problem during treatment with maraviroc, 
including in those patients with the highest exposure (i.e. patients with saquinavir/ritonavir in OBT).  
Postural hypotension was slightly more common with maraviroc than placebo. At week 2 and at early 
termination maraviroc treated patients were reported to have this at frequency of 6-7% and 5-8% 
respectively, as compared to 4% and 7% with placebo. Of all PIs Saquinavir/ritonavir has the greatest 
impact on the maraviroc exposure (highest maraviroc exposure). Hence, a specific assessment was 
carried out for this subgroup of patients. Postural dizziness/hypotension was not more common for 
patients treated with maraviroc + saquinavir/ritonavir than in patients treated with maraviroc + other 
PI/ritonavir. Postural hypotension does not seem to be a safety problem with the 300 mg unit dose. 
In the main studies 6 maraviroc treated subjects reported 8 serious adverse events, possibly linked to 
ischemic heart disease (4 QD, 2 BID), while no such event was reported with placebo. These patients 
all had significant risk factors for cardiac disease. As major cardiovascular disorders were exclusion 
criteria  throughout  the  supportive  study  and  during  most  of  the  inclusion  time  of  the  main  studies 
(until amendment 2), cardiovascular safety has to be continuously followed within the ongoing studies 
and within the risk management plan. 
Hepatic adverse events 
Exclusion criterias of > 5 x ULN for transaminases and > 2.5 ULN for bilirubin were used in the main 
studies. Co-infection with hepatits B/C was allowed, but the number of such patients very low (around 
5%). 
There  was  no  relevant  difference  of  grade  3-4  AEs that  might  be  linked  to  the  hepatobiliary  system 
with  maraviroc  treatment  as  compared  to  placebo.  Only  3  possibly  treatment-related  SAEs,  with  a 
possible link to the hepatobiliary system were reported. No deaths were considered related to hepatic 
events. 
©EMEA 2007 
43/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other events 
Myalgia  and  increased  creatine  kinase  (CK)  was  more  common  with  maraviroc,  time  adjusted.  5 
patients (of 840) treated with maraviroc stopped therapy due to rhabdomyolysis (2), myositis (1) and 
myalgia.  Although 
treatment  population 
myositis/rhabdomyolysis  cannot  be  excluded  as  a  possible  uncommon  adverse  event  and  will  be 
followed within the risk management plan. 
levels  are  very  common 
increased  CK 
this 
in 
Deaths 
As of database cut-off a total of 30 deaths have been reported post randomization of the phase IIb/III 
studies. All except one of these deaths were not considered related to study drug by the investigators. 
After adjustment for time of exposure, no difference in the frequency was seen between maraviroc and 
placebo.  Another  12  deaths  occurred  between  screening  and  randomization  (period  of  around  6 
weeks), underscoring the advanced stage of HIV disease in this patient population.  
•  Laboratory findings 
There  was  no  relevant  difference  of  grade  3-4  AEs that  might  be  linked  to  the  hepatobiliary  system 
with maraviroc treatment as compared to placebo. Treatment-related serious AEs, with a possible link 
to the hepatobiliary system were reported in 3 patients, with values normalized after cessation (1) and 
continuing therapy (1); the third patient left the study.  
No relevant differences were noted, including liver enzymes. 
•  Safety in special populations 
As mentioned above the main study populations were very homogenous. No relevant analyses can be 
undertaken with regards to special populations. In the analyses presented, no specific safety concerns 
were identified. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Maraviroc  was  well  tolerated,  with  a  low  number  of  patients  discontinuing  the  main  studies  due  to 
adverse  events.  No  relevant  differences  were  seen  between  treatment  arms  (MVC  QD  2.9%,  MVC 
BID 2.3%, placebo 2.4%). 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data is available as the product is not yet licensed. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which is summarised in Table 25. 
©EMEA 2007 
44/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Identified risks: None 
Important potential risks 
Hepatic Safety 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data (until last  patient reaches 96  
       weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
       starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
EuroSIDA data 
Additional cohorts  
Data Capture Aid 
Expert panel if required 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data (until last  patient reaches 96  
       weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
       starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
EuroSIDA data 
Additional cohorts  
Data Capture Aid 
Expert panel if required 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data (until last  patient reaches 96  
       weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
       starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
EuroSIDA data 
Additional cohorts  
Data Capture Aid 
Expert panel if required 
Malignancy 
(both AIDS and 
non-AIDS 
related) 
Infection 
(including 
Category C 
events, HCV 
coinfection, 
encephalitides ) 
Proposed risk 
minimisation 
activities 
-Warning to 
patients with 
abnormal hepatic 
function, known 
underlying hepatic 
disease or 
HCV/HBV is  in 
section (4.4) of the 
SmPC 
 -Discontinuation 
rules are defined in 
Section 4.4  
-PIL includes 
warning regarding 
hepatic safety 
--- 
-Listed in the 
Warning section of 
the SmPC (4.4), 
including advice 
for caution. 
 -Listed as ADR in 
section 4.8  
©EMEA 2007 
45/52 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Potential to 
alter rates of 
autoimmune 
disease 
Off label use in 
paediatrics and 
adolescents 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis 
       Longer term follow up (until last  patient reaches 96  
        weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
        starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
Expert panel if required 
Results from Study A4001045 in the treatment of RA 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Including reporting of any reported off label usage and 
reported SAEs via PSURs  
Monitoring literature for reports of off label usage 
Producing summary of reports identified in the PSUR 
Automated Database  will be explored  to examine the 
extent of off-label use of maraviroc within such a study 
Change in 
tropism result 
from CCR5 to 
CXCR4 tropic 
with associated 
adverse clinical 
outcome 
Potential  
imbalance in 
cardiac 
ischaemic 
events 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data from ongoing TE studies  
       (until last  patient reaches 96 weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
       starting study drug  
48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 5 year follow up 
if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data (until last  patient reaches 96  
       weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
       starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
Proposed risk 
minimisation 
activities 
IRS is listed in the 
Warning section of 
the SmPC (4.4). 
-Indication only in 
adult with CCR5-
tropic HIV is listed 
in Sections 4.1, 4.2 
and Warning 
section of the 
SmPC (4.4) 
-Educational 
materials to guide 
prescribers on 
tropism and how to 
get a tropism test 
performed to help 
ensure appropriate 
use of maraviroc 
-Listed in Sections 
4.1, 4.2 and 
Warning section of 
the SmPC (4.4) 
-Tropism data is 
presented in 
Section 5.1.  
-Listed as 
uncommon adverse 
reactions in the 
SmPC (Section 
4.8).  
-Warning to 
patients with severe 
cardiovascular 
diseases  is listed in 
section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. 
©EMEA 2007 
46/52 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Potential for 
rhabdomyolysis 
and myositis 
EuroSIDA data 
Additional cohorts  
Data Capture Aid 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
Ongoing trials in TE subjects 
       48 week analysis  
       Longer term follow up data (until last  patient reaches 96  
       weeks) 
       Observational mortality follow-up until 5 years post  
        starting study drug  
Ongoing trials in TN subjects 
      48 week data in naïve subjects (A4001026) 
      5 year follow up if efficacy of maraviroc is similar to  
      efavirenz 
EAP initiate 1Q2007 
Maraviroc Safety Registry (A4001067) 
EuroSIDA data 
Additional cohorts  
Data Capture Aid 
Missing information 
Exposure 
during 
Pregnancy 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  
In-utero exposure is captured via the SAE reporting process 
and will be reported annually in the PSUR  
In order to perform developmental assessments following 
inadvertent in-utero exposure of infants it is proposed to enrol 
such infants where geographically possible into current long 
term studies in the US and Europe following in utero 
exposed infants.  
Post authorization in-utero exposure will also be captured 
within the US antiretroviral registry. The registry will 
provide a report which will be submitted with the PSUR 
annually. 
Other Safety concerns 
Postural 
Hypotension 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Potential for 
QTc 
prolongation 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk 
minimisation 
activities 
Listed as 
uncommon adverse 
reactions in the 
SmPC (Section 
4.8).  
-Recommendation 
of use in pregnancy 
is in SmPC 
(Section 4.6)  
-Warning of use 
during lactation is 
listed in SmPC 
(Section 4.6)   
- Details of pre-
clinical safety data 
are provided in 
SmPC (Section 
5.3). 
Warning to patients 
with history of 
postural 
hypotension or on 
concomitant 
products known to 
lower blood 
pressure is included 
in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. 
-Listed in the 
Overdose Section 
(4.9) of SmPC 
Listed in the 
Overdose  Section 
(4.9) of SmPC 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
©EMEA 2007 
47/52 
 
 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product.  
The applicant committed to place on stability study the first three production batches of the finished 
product and to inform the Authorities if out-of-specification results occur. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Maraviroc  is  a  small  molecule  CCR5  antagonist  that  binds  with  an  affinity  reflected  in  a  KD  of 
0.86 nM. It binds CCR5 to promote a conformation that is not recognised by CCR5-tropic HIV i.e. it 
is an allosteric inhibitor of HIV binding to CCR5. Maraviroc is a CCR5 functional antagonist, with no 
intrinsic  agonist  activity,  blocking  to  signals  induced  by  different  receptor-binding  chemokines. 
Overall, the compound appeared selective for the human over the murine receptor ortholog. In assays 
screening  for  selectivity,  some  activity  towards  rat  muscarinic,  human  µ-opioid  and  human  α 
adrenergic receptors was reported. The interactions of maraviroc with macaque CCR5 receptor were 
determined to be most similar to the human receptor. From the non-clinical point of view the primary 
and secondary as well as safety pharmacology of maraviroc has been adequately characterised. 
The species used in toxicology studies can be considered as relevant models concerning metabolism 
and general pharmacokinetic characteristics. In interspecies comparisons of exposure the applicant has 
used unbound values adjusted for differences in protein binding. Overall this approach was considered 
acceptable also considering that using total or unbound values does not generally have a major impact 
on  exposure  multiples.  The  metabolism  of  maraviroc  is  rather  complex,  but  the  major  pathways  in 
various species have been identified. Maraviroc is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4, and is considered 
unlikely  to  inhibit  the  metabolism  of  other  cytochrome  P450  substrates  in  clinical  practice.  Overall, 
the  species  used  in  toxicology  studies  were  exposed  to  various  extents  to  all  major  metabolites  of 
maraviroc.  Maraviroc  is  chemically  described  as  having  one  chiral  centre  with  an  S  absolute 
configuration  and  an  exo  substitution  configuration  on  the  tropane  unit.  Endo  and  exoisomers  could 
exhibit differences in pharmacology/toxicology, but stereochemical inversion or inversion of the exo 
configuration seems unlikely. 
With regard to the toxicological properties of maraviroc and the respective studies to investigate the 
general  toxicity,  reproduction  toxicity  and  carcinogenic  potential,  respectively,  it  needs  to  be 
considered  that  possible  effects  may  be  a  function  of  the  binding  to  CCR5,  i.e.  the  primary 
pharmacological  effect,  and  that  this  has  either  not  or  to  a  limited  extent  been  characterised  due  to 
species-dependent differences in receptor affinity resulting in an inhibition of 30% at the most in the 
species used, mouse, rat, rabbit and dog. Therefore, for toxicity directly related to CCR5 interactions 
the data from the monkey studies provides the most valuable information.  
In particular, the studies on the carcinogenic potential do not address possible tumourigenicity arising 
from long-term blockade of the CCR5 receptor. Background data from CCR5 knockout mouse is also 
not  available.  The  applicant  was  asked  by  the  CHMP  to  further  address  the  potential  tumour 
“promoting”  properties  of  maraviroc  as  follow-up  measure  by  use  of  available  primate  tissues  to 
conduct investigations for markers of proliferative activity and conducting tests aimed to provide data 
on tumour proliferating potency. 
In  addition,  further  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  mandated  as  follow-up  measure  to  address  this 
concerns (see section 3.5 Pharmacovigilance). 
©EMEA 2007 
48/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The applicant states that the studies have been conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practise. 
They were approved by ethics/institutional review boards. 
The  phase  III  pivotal  studies  consisted  of  truly  treatment-experienced  patients,  with  a  median 
sensitivity score of 1 at baseline. In this population, maraviroc proved to have a relevant effect, with 
45%  of  patients  having  undetectable  viral  load  at  week  24,  which  were  twice  as  many  as  in  the 
placebo arms (23%). The efficacy was lower in patients with the lowest sensitivity score at baseline, 
and a marked decrease was seen in patients with the lowest Cd4-strata. 10-20% of maraviroc treated 
patients with a Cd4-count < 50 at baseline had undetectable viral load at week 24, compared to 3% of 
those who received placebo. 48-week data was provided showing that efficacy results are durable also 
in patients with low CD4-counts at baseline. 
The resistance evaluation of patients failing on therapy with maraviroc is complicated. The majority of 
failing patients (two thirds) showed X4-virus at rebound. Such emerging X4-virus was shown to be of 
pre-existing origin, rather than mutated R5-virus. After stopping maraviroc treatment again only R5-
virus was detected in the vast majority (30/31) patients with a follow-up of more than 4 weeks. 
The  patient  population  of  the  main  studies  were  very  homogenous  with  respect  to  age  (around  40), 
gender (89% males), race (84% white) and HIV-subtype (94% subtype B). Although these parameters 
might not correlate to efficacy on theoretical grounds, further data is warranted regarding the efficacy 
in subpopulations. 
Safety 
The  safety  database  is  adequate  for  this  stage  of  development,  however  further  data  will  need  to  be 
generated also as part of the risk management plan. 
No major safety concerns were found with maraviroc as part of the antiretroviral regimen in treatment 
experienced patients. The dose limiting adverse event, postural hypotension, appeared to be clinically 
manageable  with  the  chosen  dosage  of  a  300  mg.  Maraviroc  was  well  tolerated,  with  the  same 
frequency  of  study  drug  discontinuation  for  maraviroc  and  placebo.  The  spectrum  of  AEs  reported, 
including  serious  adverse  events  and  deaths,  did  not  reveal  any  specific  issues  considering  the 
population studied. The frequency of liver related AEs does not raise any concerns for liver toxicity. 
The  safety  conclusion  must  be  viewed  with  some  caution,  due  to  the  homogenous  study  population 
with regards to age, gender and race. However, from a mechanistic point of view it appears unlikely 
that these parameters would have a major impact on the safety aspects of the compound. 
It is noteworthy that the number of patients co-infected with hepatitis B/C in the main studies is low 
(around  5%).  Hence,  neither  the  safety  of  maraviroc  in  such  patients,  nor  the  possible  impact  of 
maraviroc  on  the  course  of  these  infections  has  been  adequately  studied.  Adequate  reflection  in  the 
SmPC wording is mandated and further studies to explore this issue as part of the follow-up measures 
is mandated. 
Furthermore, it must be highlighted that verified ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure and 
prior intracranial vascular events were exclusion criteria through the major part of the inclusion period 
of the main studies, and throughout the supportive study. Hence, the safety of maraviroc has not been 
adequately  studied  in  this  subgroup  of  patients.  This  issue  must  be  specifically  addressed  in  the 
pharmacovigilance program – especially as the only treatment related cardiac events seen, although at 
low frequency, occurred in patients treated with maraviroc. 
Maraviroc  could  potentially  have  a  negative  impact  on  immune  function  through  CCR5-receptor 
blockade. In the population studied, the frequency and severity of infections is complex to assess. This 
issue  should  be  continuously  followed,  and  later  findings  in  the  ongoing  study  in  treatment  naïve 
patients will be helpful for this assessment. It must be emphasized, that the frequency of uncommon 
©EMEA 2007 
49/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but potentially serious infections, like encephalitis, can only be analysed by looking at large number of 
maraviroc treated patients included in HIV-cohort studies. 
No increased frequency of malignancy was seen at this early stage; this must be followed for longer 
time  periods,  as  well  as  signals  of  auto-immune  disorders.  The  proposed  risk  management  plan 
addresses these issues. 
CXCR4-tropic virus is seldom found during early stages of HIV infection, but is more frequently seen 
along  with  increasing  immunosuppression.  Whether  such  CXCR4-tropic  virus  is  present  in  minor 
reservoirs already after transmission, or if R5-virus is transformed to CXCR4-tropic virus by mutation 
is  unknown.  The  shift  from  R5-tropic  virus  in  early  stages  of  HIV-infection  to  a  gradually  higher 
frequency of virus able to use the CXCR4 receptor found at later stages of disease, is  a process not 
fully  understood.  Although  a  cause-effect  between  emergence  of  CXCR4-tropic  virus  and  immune 
deterioration  has  not  been  established,  this  issue  is  of  particular  interest,  as  the  majority  of  patients 
failing with maraviroc do so with the emergence of CXCR4-tropic virus. As discussed, it is reassuring 
that  there  seems  to  be  reversion  back  to  a  CCR5  using  virus  population  once  maraviroc  therapy  is 
stopped.  The  impact  of  failure  with  CXCR4-tropic  virus  on  subsequent  treatment  outcome  will  be 
followed within both the pivotal trials and in the ongoing study in treatment naive patients. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The applicant has submitted results from user testing of the package leaflet, which was performed in 
English. Overall, the user test is found acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Benefits  
Maraviroc  is  relevantly  superior  to  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  heavily  experienced  patients  with 
CCR5-tropic  HIV-1.  This  was  shown  in  two  large,  double-blind,  randomized  studies  comparing 
maraviroc  300  mg  QD  versus  maraviroc  300  mg  BID  versus  placebo  (2:2:1,  n=1076)  all  in 
combination  with  optimized  background  therapy.  At  week  48,  the  proportion  of  patients  with 
undetectable  viral  load  was  around  48%  for  both  doses  of  maraviroc  as  compared  to  19%  with 
placebo. Maraviroc was relevantly superior in all subsets of patients analysed. 
From a clinical practice perspective it is worth noticing that: 
−  Maraviroc treatment should not be initiated in patients with detectable CXCR4-tropic virus. 
−  Patients in advanced failure are at higher risk for detectable CXCR4-tropic virus.   
−  The TrofileTM HIV Entry Tropism assay (Monogram Sciences) is the only currently available 
and validated assay. The applicant did commit to ensure that adequate logistical arrangements 
are set up in all EU/EEA  Member States to provide physicians with necessary access to the 
assay. 
©EMEA 2007 
50/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Viral  tropism  cannot  be  confidently  predicted  from  treatment  history  and  re-assessment  of 
stored  samples.  Hence  maraviroc  is  not  a  suitable  agent  when  switching  therapy  in  virally 
suppressed patients (due to side effects, etc.).  
Risks  
Non-clinical data on repeated dose toxicity, reproduction toxicity and carcinogenic potential included 
dosing  regimens  providing  high  exposure  multiples  in  relation  to  human  clinical  dose  and  generally 
did not indicate any unexpected toxicity of maraviroc. In rat prominent liver effects were reported, but 
in monkey effects were mild. Animal studies were, though, partially deficient in studying the risks of 
CCR5-inhibition,  as  the  affinity  for  maraviroc  is  low  in  non-human  host  cells  with  the  exception  of 
monkey. Sufficient human data therefore need to be generated to overcome this deficiency. 
The  CCR5-receptor  is  a  host  cell  chemokine  receptor.  CCR5-mediated  signalling  is  involved  in 
inflammatory  response  at  several  levels  including  priming  of  innate/adaptive  immune  response, 
chemotaxis  and  cell  migration.  This  activity  is  blocked  by  maraviroc,  which  therefore  carries  a 
potential  risk  for  immune  dysfunction  (infections,  auto-immune  disorders,  malignancies).  In  the 
pivotal  studies  upper  respiratory  infections  and  mucocutaneous  herpes  simplex  was  somewhat  more 
common with maraviroc compared to placebo (exposure adjusted). The frequencies of AIDS-defining 
events and malignancies were similar between groups. 
In early studies it was shown that maraviroc has the potential of QT-prolongation at high doses, and 
postural hypotension is dose limiting. However, postural hypotension, a bit more frequent than with 
placebo, was uncommon and QT-prolongation not noted in the pivotal studies. The frequency of liver-
related AE´s was similar to placebo. 
Maraviroc  is  a  substrate  of  both  CYP3A  and  p-glycoprotein,  and  hence  sensitive  to  interactions.  In 
treatment  experienced  patients  the  number  of  drugs  prone  to  interactions  may  be  quite  extensive. 
Uncommon  combinations  of  antiretrovirals  as  well  as  several  other  drugs  to  treat  opportunistic 
infections and other underlying disorders might be used concomitantly. The option of individual cases 
therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) was discussed but currently not considered feasible. 
The patient population studied was quite homogenous; the vast majority of patients were middle-aged 
white  men,  with  HIV  subtype  B.  The  percentage  of  patients  with  HBV/HCV  co-infection  was  low, 
around 5%. The applicant has therefore not been able to adequately study the impact of maraviroc on 
the course of hepatitis C co-infection (levels of HCV-RNA levels).  
As  patients  with  verified  significant  cardiovascular  disorder  were  excluded  until  late  when  most 
patients  were  already  included,  cardiovascular  safety  is  not  adequately  studied,  but  signals  were 
noticed. Similarly, myalgia and increased creatine kinase are considered as signals. 
−  Safety  follow-up  long-term  is  of  major  importance.  The  ongoing  confirmatory  study  in 
treatment-naive  patients  with  planned  follow-up  for  5  years  is  considered  pivotal,  e.g.  as 
regards putative safety issues related to long-term CCR-5 receptor inhibition. 
−  There are concerns related to the consequences of treatment failure with CXCR4-tropic virus. 
The advanced to very advanced stage of the patients enrolled in the pivotal trials and the non-
availability  of  effective  next-line  ART  at  time  of  failure  in  a  large  proportion  of  patients 
probably make these trials the best possible but far from ideal source of information as regards 
this  issue.  Available  data  are  considered  reassuring  as  back  shift  to  R5-virus  dominates,  but 
data are limited. 
−  Safety  should  also  to  be  documented  in  a  wider  population  than  that  currently  studied, 
including co-infected patients and patients with cardiovascular disease. 
As  regards  the  deficiency  with  respect  to  non-clinical  toxicity  studies  (non-relevance  of  species  for 
assessment of CCR5 inhibition), medium-term clinical safety data are overall sufficiently reassuring, 
while long-term safety must be addressed within the RMP.  
©EMEA 2007 
51/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Balance 
Maraviroc is a new antiretroviral compound that shows clinically relevant 48-week efficacy as add-on 
to optimised background therapy in patients with few or no available treatment options and with only 
CCR5-tropic virus detectable at baseline. 
The  dose  proposed  for  approval  is  300  mg  equivalent  BID  (150,  300  or  600  mg  BID  depending  on 
interactions  with  co-administered  antiretroviral  therapy  and  other  medicinal  products).  In  limited 
phase 2 dose ranging studies, doses ranging from 25 mg QD to 300 mg BID were given during short-
term monotherapy. Maximum activity (-1.6 log10 change in HIV-RNA at day 10) was achieved with 
all doses of 100 mg BID or above.  
The overall activity of the 300 mg equivalent QD regimen compared with 300 mg equivalent BID is 
similar and actually fulfilled predefined criteria for non-inferiority in the pooled analysis. The activity 
of the QD regimen, however, is somewhat lower in patients with risk factors for poor response; high 
viral  load,  low  CD4  T-cell  count  and  a  low  sensitivity  score.  In  addition,  no  difference  as  regards 
safety  comparing  the  regimens  is  observed,  including  the  dose-limiting  adverse  reaction  postural 
hypotension. Maraviroc is also a compound with a large potential for clinically relevant interactions, 
including  food.  Based  on  until  now  available  data,  the  concerns  raised  in  relation  to  interactions 
mainly refer to too low exposure. Altogether, the proposed dose regimen is considered acceptable.  
Fully  acknowledging  the  mechanism-based  safety  concerns  and  some  signals  in  the  rather  limited 
safety database, the benefit/risk is considered favourable for the intended indication  
−  as no major toxicity or tolerability issues have been shown to be related to maraviroc,  
−  as the compound provides a new mechanism of action, 
−  as sustained efficacy (48 weeks) of  undoubted relevant magnitude has been clearly shown.  
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  SmPC  adequately  reflects  the  current  knowledge  about  the 
compound in its intended therapeutic indication. A number of follow-up measures would need to be 
conducted by the applicant post-licensure.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of CELSENTRI in the therapeutic indication 
“CELSENTRI, in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products, is indicated for 
treatment-experienced adult patients infected with only CCR5-tropic HIV-1 detectable (see 
section 4.2). 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1).” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
52/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
