European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/520543/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Ceplene 
International Nonproprietary Name: histamine dihydrochloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000796 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu 
Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ............................................3 
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure.......................................................................... 4 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION..................................................................................................5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
2.7 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 22 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 44 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 46 
Re-examination of the CHMP opinion of 19 March 2008..................................................... 48 
Detailed grounds for re-examination submitted by the applicant ....................................................... 48 
Recommendation following re-examination....................................................................................... 51 
REFERENCES .....................................................................................................................................52 
Page 2 of 54 
 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  EpiCept  GmbH  submitted  on  06 October 2006  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
Ceplene,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/05/272  on  11 April 2005 
Ceplene was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: treatment of acute 
myeloid  leukaemia.  The  calculated  prevalence  of  this  condition  was  approximately  0.7  in 
10,000 persons in the Community. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  Ceplene  in  conjunction  with  interleukin-2  is 
indicated  for  maintenance  of  remission  in  adult  patients  with  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  in  first 
remission to prolong the duration of leukaemia-free survival. 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No  847/2000,  the  application  contained  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with 
authorised orphan medicinal product Trisenox. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant did not seek Protocol Assistance from the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not approved in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  David Lyons 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Bengt Ljungberg 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The request for Accelerated Assessment was rejected on 18-20 July 2006. 
The application was received by the EMEA on 06 October 2006. 
The procedure started on 25 October 2006. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
17 January 2007.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 16 January 2007. 
During  the  meeting  on  20-22 February 2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 22 February 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
06 September 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 19 October 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 13-15 November 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
Page 3 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20  February  2008,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During a meeting of the SAG-Oncology on 11 January 2008, experts were convened to address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
During the meeting on 17-19 March 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  negative  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Ceplene on 19 March 2008. 
1.3 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Harald Enzmann 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Alar Irs 
•  The Applicant submitted a letter to the EMEA dated 26 March 2008 requesting the re-examination 
of Ceplene CHMP Opinion of 19 March 2008. 
•  During its meeting on 21-24 April 2008, the CHMP appointed Harald Enzmann as Rapporteur and 
Alar Irs as Co-Rapporteur for the re-examination procedure. 
•  The  detailed  grounds  for  the  re-examination  request  were  submitted  by  the  applicant  on  27  May 
2008. The re-examination procedure started on 28 May 2008. 
•  The Rapporteur's Assessment Report on the detailed grounds for the re-examination was circulated 
on 4 July 2008. The Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report was circulated on 7 July 2008. 
•  A Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) in Oncology meeting was convened at the EMEA on 10 July 
2008 to consider the grounds for re-examination. 
•  The  Rapporteurs’  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  detailed  grounds  for  the  re-examination  was 
circulated on 18 July 2008.  
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  21-24  July  2008,  the  grounds  for  refusal  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
•  During the meeting on 21-24 July 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  final  positive  Opinion  under  exceptional 
circumstances recommending the granting of a Marketing Authorisation for Ceplene. The applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the specific obligations to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 23 
July 2008. 
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  21-24  July  2007,  the  CHMP  adopted  a  report  on  similarity  of 
Ceplene and Trisenox. 
•  The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded,  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union,  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decisions on 7 October 2008. 
Page 4 of 54 
 
 
 
 
• 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Acute  myeloid  leukaemia  (AML)  is  a  heterogeneous  haematological  malignancy  characterised  by 
abnormal proliferation of immature haematopoietic progenitor cells of the myeloid lineage. Diagnosis 
is made by morphologic examination of and immunophenotyping of myeloid progenitor cells from the 
bone  marrow.  The  complete  blood  count  (CBC)  is  almost  always  abnormal  and  often,  leucocytosis, 
anaemia and thrombocytopenia are present. Current standard treatment includes chemotherapy with or 
without a bone marrow transplant. 
The  standard  treatment  of  AML  in  adults  typically  is  divided  into  2 phases:  induction  and 
treatment  uses  a  combination  of  anthracyclines  (most  commonly 
intensification.  Induction 
daunomycin)  and  high  dose  cytarabine,  with  or  without  6-thioguianine.  Treatment  is  repeated  every 
4 weeks until complete remission (CR), defined by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) as including all 
of the following: 
•  peripheral-blood counts rising toward normal, 
• 
•  no clinical signs or symptoms of the disease, including in the central nervous system (CNS) or at 
a mildly hypocellular to normal cellular marrow with fewer than 5% blasts, 
other extramedullary sites. 
Complete remission may be achieved in 70-80% of the approximately 30,000 newly diagnosed AML 
patients  worldwide.  After  induction  chemotherapy,  intensification  (or  consolidation)  therapy 
(eradicate  any  microscopic  amounts  of  leukaemia)  can  be  initiated.  Many  patients,  especially  those 
younger  than  60 years  at  the  time  of  diagnosis  and  those  with  favourable  cytogenetic  patterns,  may 
also  receive  consolidation  therapies  (generally,  1  or  2 courses),  including  high-dose  cytarabine 
(HDAC)  and/or  with  other  chemotherapy  (daunomycin)  and/or  allogeneic  stem  cell  transplantation. 
However,  the  majority  of AML  patients  (75-80%)  in  their  first CR,  who  cannot be  allotransplanted, 
will relapse after median remission duration of approximately 1 year. Where allogeneic transplantation 
is not an option, there is no expert clinical consensus regarding effective therapy for the maintenance 
of remission beyond the completion of consolidation chemotherapy. As a result, the standard of care 
for such AML patients in remission is no treatment. 
Induction  of  remission  and  long-term  survival  are  still  major  challenges  in  the  care  of  patients  with 
AML.  The  survival  outcome  after  a  leukaemic  relapse  is  poor;  thus,  more  than  80%  of 
non-transplanted AML patients will die within 2 years after onset of relapse. Overall, about 20-30% of 
people  survive  free  of  disease  at  5  years  from  diagnosis;  most  relapses  occur  within  2  years  of 
diagnosis.  If  a  patient  survives  induction  and  consolidation  chemotherapy  then  the  length  of  that 
patient's first remission is considered the primary prognostic indicator for the length of survival. 
Novel  therapeutic  strategies  to  maintain  CR  in  AML  are  needed  because  leukaemic  relapse  is 
synonymous  with  limited  long-term  survival.  Currently,  there  is  no  recognised  strategy  or 
pharmacological  intervention  to  prevent  AML  relapse  and  for  this  reason  the  concept  of  relapse 
prevention using the combination of subcutaneous interleukin-2 (IL-2) and histamine dihydrochloride 
(HDC) is of considerable scientific and therapeutic interest. 
Histamine dihydrochloride is a synthetic immune modulator. The rationale for its use in combination 
with IL-2 in maintenance of first remission in adult patients with AML is based on its putative novel 
mechanism  of  action  in  which  HDC  is  thought  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  the  cytokine,  IL-2. 
Activation  of  IL-2  receptor  bearing  lymphocytes  NK  and  T-lymphocytes  to  kill  tumour  cells  is  the 
principal goal of IL-2 and IFN-α therapy. 
The therapeutic effect of histamine dihydrochloride is exerted by its effect on monocytes. Histamine 
dihydrochloride inhibits the function of a key enzyme in oxygen radical formation, NADPH oxidase, 
Page 5 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reducing  the  detrimental  effects  of  oxidative  stress  on  NK  and  T-cells  thereby  preserving  their  cell 
cytotoxic activity against tumour cells. Histamine is involved in local immune responses, regulation of 
gastric  HCL  secretion  and  the  allergic  response.  Based  on  its  known  biological  effects,  histamine 
administered  subcutaneously 
to  produce  vasodilation  (manifested  as  flushing), 
hypotension  and  a  corresponding  increased  heart  rate,  increased  gastric  acid  secretion  and  local 
injection site reactions. 
is  expected 
Ceplene (histamine dihydrochloride) solution for injection is classified as an immune modulator (ATC 
code:  L03A  X14).  It  is  used  in  conjunction  with  recombinant  IL-2.  The  proposed  indication  is 
‘administered in conjunction with interleukin-2, maintenance of remission in adult patients with acute 
myeloid leukaemia in first remission to prolong the duration of leukaemia free survival’. In some EU 
countries, recombinant IL-2 is approved for use in renal cell carcinoma and malignant melanoma. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Ceplene contains histamine dihydrochloride as the active substance and it is presented as a solution for 
injection for subcutaneous use. Each vial contains 0.5 ml of the solution of histamine dihydrochloride 
at a concentration of 1mg/ml. 
Other  ingredients  include  sodium  chloride,  hydrochloric  acid  or  sodium  hydroxide  and  water  for 
injections.  All  excipients  used  in  the  product  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  their 
corresponding European Pharmacopoeia monographs. 
The immediate packaging materials are commonly used for these types of formulations and consist of 
Type  I  Ph.Eur.  clear,  colourless  glass  vials  sealed  with  bromobutyl  rubber  stoppers  and  flip-off 
aluminium seals 
Active Substance 
Histamine  dihydrochloride  (C5H9N3  .  2HCl)  is  a  well-characterised  molecule  for  which  a  Ph.  Eur. 
Monograph exists. It is a white to off-white crystalline powder, very water-soluble, but less soluble in 
ethanol. It has a pKa of 6.12 and 9.85 and is moderately hygroscopic. Histamine dihydrochloride does 
not contain any optically active centres or isomerable double bonds and exhibits only one polymorphic 
form. 
The proof of chemical structure was achieved by elemental analysis; analysis of the electron ionisation 
mass  spectrum,  1H-NMR  and  13C-NMR  spectra,  IR  and  UV  spectra,  while  X-Ray  diffraction 
confirmed that histamine dihydrochloride is a highly crystalline powder. 
•  Manufacture 
Histamine  dihydrochloride  is  produced  by  a  proprietary  process  and  purification  steps  to  achieve  
histamine dihydrochloride of satisfactory quality. 
The  impurity  profile  of  histamine  dihydrochloride  has  been  extensively  investigated  and  meets  the 
ICH requirements. All potential impurities have been identified and characterised. All solvents used in 
the manufacture of the active substance are controlled in compliance with ICH guidelines. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  meets  the  specification  in  the  current  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  histamine 
dihydrochloride.    The  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identification,  assay  (HPLC), 
impurities  (HPLC,  TLC,  GC),  water  content,  loss  on  drying,  solubility.  Whilst  meeting  the  Ph.Eur. 
monograph for histamine dihydrochloride, other physico-chemical methods to characterise and control 
the quality of the active substance have also been established.  
The analytical methods employed are either pharmacopoeial or have been adequately validated. 
Page 6 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch analysis data have been provided for 10 batches of histamine hydrochloride, the 4 more recent 
manufactured by the method intended for commercial manufacturing. Earlier batches did not meet the 
Ph. Eur. requirements for appearance and clarity and as a result the purification process was modified. 
In all other cases the results comply with the proposed specifications. 
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  were  conducted  according  to  the  ICH  requirements  on  three  registration  batches  of 
histamine  dihydrochloride  using  the  commercial  manufacturing  process.  Samples  were  stored  at 
40°C°C/75%RH , 25°C/60% RH, and 30°C /60% .. 
The  parameters  tested  were  appearance,  assay,  chromatographic  impurities,  colour  and  clarity,  pH, 
water  content,  microbial  limit  and  endotoxins.  The  analytical  methods  used  were  the  same  as  those 
used for routine testing and have been shown to be stability indicating. 
The stability data demonstrate that histamine dihydrochloride is very stable with values of known and 
unknown substances often below the limit of quantitation.  
Stability  studies  were  also  carried  out  at  5°C.  In  addition,  photostability  studies  under  conditions, 
which  were  in  compliance  with  the  ICH  Q1B  guidance,  were  conducted  on  one  batch  of  histamine 
dihydrochloride.  The  studies  showed  no  significant  differences  between  exposed  materials  and 
controls,  therefore  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  bulk  histamine  dihydrochloride  does  not  require  any 
special precautions to protect from light during storage. 
Freeze/thaw  testing  confirmed  that  the  drug  substance  did  not  degrade  when  exposed  to  extreme 
temperature fluctuations as may be encountered during shipping. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical development 
Ceplene  is  an  immunomodulator  that  is  administered  subcutaneously  as  an  adjunct  to  Interleukin-2 
therapy  and  is  available  in  single/unit  dose  vials.  The  product  is  designed  for  self-subcutaneous 
administration by the patient. No diluent is required. 
Pre-formulation  studies  were  carried  out  with  histamine  dihydrochloride  dissolved  in  saline.  The 
content of histamine dihydrochloride is based on findings of pre-clinical work. As the drug product is 
an  aqueous  solution  of  the  active  ingredient  there  are  no  physiochemical  or  biological  properties 
relevant to the performance of the finished product. The formulation is simple, with sodium chloride 
to provide an isotonic solution, and water for injections as the solvent. The product is formulated to 
maintain pH in the range necessary for optimal stability. The formulation has been shown to be stable 
and to withstand autoclaving. The manufacturing process is standard for this type of formulation. 
Originally the product was developed to be filled in vials containing 1.2 ml of the Ceplene  solution 
corresponding  to  2  doses,  which  were  to  be  used  within  12  hours  of  each  other.  In  response  to 
questions raised during the evaluation about the choice of the presentation the applicant reduced the 
fill  volume  of  the  vial  to  be  equivalent  to  that  of  a  single  dose  i.e.0.5  ml  (with  required  overfill). 
Although  single  dose  preparations  are  typically  presented  in  ampoules,  this  is  acceptable  since  this 
product will be self-administered in a home environment, and a vial is obviously more user friendly 
than an ampoule. 
Compatibility  studies  monitoring  the  level  of  extractables  from  process  equipment  have  been 
performed  and  a  maximum  holding  time  of  the  solution  prior  to  filling  has  been  established.  The 
integrity of the container closure system has been evaluated using a challenge study with a microbial 
bath  (S.  Marcescens).  The  stoppers  used  in  the  finished  product  have  been  evaluated  for  extraction 
characteristics in accordance with the Ph. Eur. (Type I Elastomeric Closures) and the results indicate 
compliance with the Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Page 7 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The clinical trials were undertaken using the proposed marketing formulation. 
•  Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  described  and  all  critical  process  parameters  have 
been  identified  and  suitable  in-process  controls  have  been  implemented  to  monitor  the  active 
substance dispensing, bulk solution compounding, filtering, filling, sealing, terminal sterilisation and 
inspection  of  the  filled  vials.  Batch  analysis  data  demonstrate  that  the  process  is  reproducible  and 
provides a drug product that complies with the in-process and finished product specifications. 
•  Product specification 
Specifications for the finished product at release and shelf life have been established. The specification 
includes tests for appearance, identification (HPLC), assay (HPLC), pH, impurities (HPLC), volume 
in container (Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), sterility (Ph. Eur.), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and 
particulate matter. All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and 
validated. Batch analysis data have been presented. All batches met the test limits as defined in the 
release specification and test methodology valid at the time of batch release. 
•  Stability of the product 
Stability studies were conducted on drug product batches according to ICH guidelines Samples were 
stored at 5ºC, 25ºC/60% RH and 30ºC/60% RH and six months at 40ºC/75% RH. 
Supplementary stability studies were also conducted  to assess photostability and syringe stability. A 
shipping  stress  study  has  also  been  performed.  In  addition  stability  studies  used  to  support  early 
clinical  development  have  been  conducted  on  five  lots  of  Ceplene  at  25ºC/60%  RH  and  have  been 
provided supporting data. 
The analytical methods used to assess stability have been validated as stability indicating or are 
compendial in nature. In all cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the 
proposed shelf life for the commercially packaged product, as defined in the SPC 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of Ceplene is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well characterised and documented. The formulation is based on an  aqueous 
solution.  The  excipients  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  commonly 
used and well documented. The manufacturing process of the finished product is a standard process 
that  has  been  adequately  described.  Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines 
conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Histamine is a pleiotropic endogenous biologically active amine that is widely distributed in the body 
and acts on multiple organ systems. Histamine is a mediator of immune and inflammatory reactions. 
Histamine  is  formed  de  novo  during  decarboxylation  of  histidine  by  histidine  decarboxylase 
(histamine  forming  capacity  or  HFC)  and  is  stored  in  the  cytoplasmic  granules  of  mast  cells  and 
basophils. Histamine synthesis, storage and release from endogenous pools are influenced by a variety 
of conditions including stress, circadian rhythms, drugs and allergens. 
Endogenous histamine acts on a large variety of different cell types including smooth muscle, neurons, 
endocrine  and  exocrine  cells,  blood  cells  and  cells  of  the  immune  system.  Histamine  covers  its 
multiple biological actions via one of several receptors including H1, H2 and H3 and most recently, H4 
Page 8 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receptors.  The  receptors  have  been  detected  in  mammalian  brain,  respiratory  tract,  genito-urinary 
system and vascular system, as well as on several types of leukocytes and haematopoietic cells. The 
principal receptors throughout the body are the H1 and H2 receptors. 
•  H1 -- smooth muscle contraction (most muscle other than that of blood vessels), vasodilatation and 
vascular permeability increase 
•  H2 -- leukocyte function, gastric parietal cell and cardiac stimulation 
•  H3 -- neurotransmitter in central nervous system (CNS) histaminergic nerve endings (also present 
in other parts of the body) 
•  H4 -- haematopoietic and immunocompetent cells (most recently discovered) 
The mechanism whereby HDC exerts an anti-tumour effect is unknown but has been cited in literature 
since the 1970s. In combination with IL-2, it is thought that histamine acts as an immunomodulatory 
agent  by  binding  to  H2  receptors  on  phagocytes,  preventing  the  release  of  reactive  oxygen  species 
(ROS)  and  protecting  natural  NK  function.  This  in  turn  would  enhance  the  activity  of 
immunotherapeutic  cytokines  like  IL-2  by  protecting  effector  immune  cells  from  oxidative  damage. 
The effect is thought to be mediated by both H1 and H2 type receptors. 
Pharmacology 
Structure of the active substance is histamine dihydrochloride. 
NH
N
NH2
2HCl
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
In vitro effects 
In  an  in vitro  study  blasts  recovered  from  peripheral  blood  of  patients  with  AML  were  lysed  by 
heterologous NK cells treated with IL-2, an NK cell activating cytokine (3, 4). The cytokine-induced 
killing  of  AML  blasts  was  inhibited  by  monocytes  recovered  from  peripheral  blood.  Histamine,  at 
concentrations exceeding 0.1 µM, abolished the monocyte-induced inhibition of NK cells. The effect 
of histamine was completely blocked by the histamine H2 receptor antagonist, ranitidine. Catalase, a 
scavenger  of  ROS,  reversed  the  monocyte-inducted  inhibition  of  NK cell-mediated  killing  of  blast 
cells, indicating the inhibitory signal was mediated by products of the respiratory burst of monocytes. 
In vivo effects 
Table 1 presents primary pharmacodynamic studies in various tumour models in the rodents. 
Page 9 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Effects of histamine monotherapy in animal tumour models 
Tumour model 
Fibrosarcoma 
Species  Histamine 
treatment 
6 mg/day i.p., daily  Reduced tumour growth and 
Effects 
Mouse 
improved survival 
4 mg/day s.c., 
daily 
Reduced glandular tumour in 
rats 
0.005 μg/day i.p. 
0.1 mg/kg/day s.c., 
daily 
Improved survival 
Reduced tumour incidence 
and growth 
Not stated 
H2 
Chemically 
induced gut 
tumours 
Ascitis sarcoma 
Chemically 
induced mammary 
carcinoma 
Melanoma 
Rat 
Rat 
Rat 
Mouse 
YAC-1 lymphoma  Mouse 
YAC-1 lymphoma  Mouse 
Colorectal 
carcinomas 
Mouse 
2.5–250 mg/kg 
i.v., single dose 
125 mg/kg i.v., 
single dose 
125 mg/kg i.v., 
single dose 
1 mg/kg/day i.p. 
daily 
Syngeneic 
colorectal 
adenocarcinoma 
Leydig cell 
sarcoma 
Rat 
Rat 
0.5 mg/kg/day s.c. 
daily 
0.5 mg/kg/day s.c. 
daily 
Colorectal cancer  Mouse  Local 
Leukaemia 
Mouse 
administration via 
osmotic pump 
5 μg/day; i.p. daily 
for 5 days 
Reduced pulmonary 
metastasis 
Reduced YAC-1 lung tumour 
emboli 
Improved NK cell clearance 
of YAC-1 tumour cells 
Reduced growth of human 
tumours transplanted to the 
subrenal capsule 
Reduced growth rate of 
transplanted liver tumours in 
rats 
Reduced growth rate of 
transplanted liver tumours in 
rats 
Enhanced tumour growth 
Slightly increased survival in 
mice inoculated with murine 
B-cell leukaemia 
H1 or H2 
mediated 
H2 blocker 
(metiamide) no 
influence on 
tumour growth 
but increased 
survival 
H2 
H2 receptor 
mediated 
H2 receptor 
mediated 
H2 receptor 
mediated 
H2 receptor 
mediated 
Ref. 
(5, 6) 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
(6) 
(10) 
(11) 
(12) 
Not stated 
(13) 
H2 receptor 
mediated 
H2 
(14) 
(15) 
Not stated 
(16) 
Note: 
i.p. = intraperitoneal; i.v. = intravenous; s.c. = subcutaneous 
Monotherapy 
The effect of histamine on NK cell function was evaluated by Hellstrand (10) using an in vivo mouse 
model assay developed by Hanna and Fidler (17). In this model, mice were injected with histamine, 
ranitidine  or  a  control  solution.  Twenty-four  hours  later  they  were  injected  i.v.  with  51Cr-labeled 
YAC-1 lymphoma cells which form tumour emboli in the lungs and which are extremely sensitive to 
lysis  by  NK  cells.  Four  hours  after  the  YAC-1  injection  the  animals  were  sacrificed  and  the 
radioactivity present in their lungs was measured. The levels of radioactivity in lungs has been shown 
to be inversely proportional to NK cell function in that the greater the lysis by NK cells of the target 
YAC-1 cells the less radioactivity is shown in the lungs. 
Hellstrand et al. showed that histamine treatment reduced the amount of lung radioactivity by up to 2/3 
when compared to the control group. On the other hand, treatment with the H2 antagonist, ranitidine, 
resulted  in  a  tripling  of  the  level  of  radioactivity.  This  suggests  that  histamine  increased  the 
effectiveness of NK cells in killing YAC-1 cell tumour emboli by preventing NK cell suppression by 
ROS. The inhibition of this effect by blockade of H2 receptors reduced NK cell lysis of YAC-1 cells 
by up to two thirds indicating that the effect is mediated through H2 receptors. 
The effect of histamine and H2 receptor involvement in this effect on NK sensitive cells was replicated 
by Asea (11) as indicated in the table above. Effects were shown to be most effective when histamine 
was  administered  2-6  hours  prior  to  cell  inoculation,  whereas  administration  5  minutes  prior  to 
inoculation made no difference to tumour growth. 
Page 10 of 54 
 
 
 
Combination therapy with IL-2 
The combined treatment with histamine in synergy with IL-2 effectively protected mice against B16 
melanoma  lung  metastases.  IL-2  only  weakly  activates  NK cells  or  T cells  in  an  environment  of 
oxidative  stress.  By  inhibiting  ROS  production,  histamine  protects  NK cells  and  T cells  from 
down-regulation and apoptosis and thus markedly improves the IL-2-induced activation of T cells and 
NK cells in tumours (Table 2). 
Table 2 
Animal models used to assess anti-tumour activity of histamine in combination 
therapy with IL-2 
Tumour model 
B16 melanoma 
YAC-1 lymphoma  Mouse  Enhance NK cell mediated clearance of YAC-1 cells from lungs by 
Potentiate reduction of metastatic lung tumours by IL-2 
Species  Effects 
Mouse 
Dunning prostate 
adenocarcinoma 
Intra-cerebral 
glioma 
Rat 
Rat 
IL-2 
Potentiate anti-tumour properties of IL-2 
Reduce growth of established intracerebral tumours by 50% 
Ref. 
(10) 
(11) 
(18, 19)
(20) 
AML  is  not  able  to  be  fully  represented  by  animal  models  and  therefore  support  for  the  use  of 
histamine and IL-2 in this disease comes mainly from in vitro studies. 
Below is listed the findings regarding cimetidine on tumour growth in animals and humans: 
- 
enhance the growth and metastases of Lewis lung cancer in mice (21) 
- 
slow metastatic development and prolong survival in mice bearing the Lewis lung carcinoma (22) 
- 
in a murine B cell leukaemia model it did not have an effect on BCL1 tumour cell growth (16) 
- 
cimetidine treatment of patients with gastric cancer has resulted in increased survival rates (23) 
-  mice receiving cimetidine (100 to 200 mg/kg in drinking water) were partially protected against a 
- 
- 
- 
- 
lethal inoculum of EL-4 lymphoma cells (24) 
cimetidine (100 mg/kg in drinking water) reversed the tumour growth enhancement in mice (25) 
demonstrated  that  whereas  cimetidine  suppresses  the  formation  of  B16  melanoma  metastases  in 
mice at a high dose (100 mg/kg), cimetidine and other H2 receptor antagonists instead aggravate 
melanoma metastasis at lower doses (25 to 50 mg/kg) (10) 
significantly increased the incidence of chemically induced intestinal tumours in rats (26) 
long-term exposure (19 mg/mg) increases the frequency of spontaneous lymphoid neoplasms and 
potentiates chemical carcinogenesis in mice (27) 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Histamine has proliferative effects on human and murine cells in vitro. Tilly and others (1) examined 
several human and murine cell lines and reported that histamine at a single concentration of 0.1 mM 
enhanced the in vitro growth of 3 cell lines (HeLa carcinoma cells, A431 epidermoid carcinoma cells 
and  A875 melanoma  cells)  (2).  This  effect  was  apparently  mediated  by  H1 receptors,  since  the 
histamine-induced  growth  was  inhibited  by  the  H1 antagonist,  pyrilamine  and  not  the  H2  antagonist, 
cimetidine. There is no evidence that this is predictive of effects of histamine in vivo. 
The  stimulation  of  histamine  release  or  the  administration  of  exogenous  histamine  may  produce  a 
multitude  of  physiological  responses  including  allergic  reactions  and  anaphylaxis,  vasodilation  and 
vasoconstriction,  gastric  acid  secretion  and  neurotransmission.  A  brief  summary  of  the  response  of 
multiple  organ  systems  to  histamine  exposure  in  various  species,  including  humans,  is  provided  in 
Table 3. 
Page 11 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Summary of pharmacological effect of histamine by organ system 
Organ system 
Central nervous 
Pharmacological effects 
• Functions as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. 
• Increases wakefulness via H1 receptors, explaining the sedation by classical 
anti-histamines. 
Cardiovascular 
Respiratory 
Gastrointestinal 
• May inhibit appetite acting through H3 receptors. 
• Histamine-containing neurons may participate in the regulation of drinking, body 
temperature, secretion of anti-diuretic hormone, control of blood pressure and the 
perception of pain. 
• Endogenous histamine causes dilation of small resistance peripheral arterioles resulting 
in flushing, lowered total peripheral resistance and a fall in systemic blood pressure. 
• Exogenous histamine has been shown to lower blood pressure via H1 and H2 receptors 
in almost all mammalian species tested except the rabbit. 
• Tends to increase capillary permeability in certain tissues. 
• Stimulates or more rarely, relaxes various smooth muscles depending on the vascular 
bed. 
• In the pulmonary circulation, H1 receptor responses are associated with 
vasoconstriction and H2 receptor responses are associated with vasodilation. 
• Increases vascular permeability in lungs leading to oedema formation 
• Stimulates gastric secretion and increases gastrointestinal (GI) motility. 
• An important physiological regulator of gastric acid secretion from parietal cells 
mediated by H2 receptors. 
Immune 
• Affects the function of various cells including eosinophils, neutrophils, T lymphocytes 
and suppressor T cells. 
• Down-regulates several immunological functions through its interactions with H2 
receptors. 
• Inhibits the further release of histamine from mast cells and basophils. 
• Shown to modulate the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance and may restore the Th1/Th2 cytokine 
network and enhance anti-tumour activity of IL-2. 
• Triggers the acquisition of CD86 and HLA-DR antigens on human monocytes and 
thus, may facilitate the development of antigen-presenting dendritic cells from 
monocyte precursors. 
• Involved in immediate hypersensitivity and allergic response 
• Histamine appears to have a synergistic effect with IL-2 activation of NK cells and 
T cells leading to increased destruction of tumour cells. 
Endocrine 
• Modulates the release of various anterior pituitary hormones including 
Renal 
adenocorticotropic, prolactin, TSH, LH and growth hormone 
• Participates in the stress-induced release of these hormones. 
• Appears to be a potent vasodilator of both the systemic and renal circulation. 
• When infused into the systemic circulation or the renal artery of the dog, histamine 
causes vasodilation and an increase in renal blood flow. 
• The complex effects of histamine on the renal circulation appear to be mediated by 
actions on both H1 and H2 receptors in the rat, rabbit and dog. 
Ref. 
(28) 
(21) 
(22) 
(23) 
(24-26)
(27) 
(28) 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Histamine  acts  on  multiple  organ  systems  with  the  cardiovascular  response  being  a  major 
dose-limiting pharmacodynamic effect. For this reason, safety pharmacology studies were performed 
to evaluate the cardiovascular profile of histamine in the dog (Study 82-0016) and an in vitro hERG 
assay (Study sph03-037). 
In vitro hERG assay (Study sph03-037) 
The assay evaluated the potential for HDC  and its major  metabolites, imidazole-4-acetic  acid (IAA) 
and N-methyl histamine (NMH) to inhibit a hERG encoded channel tail current. The effects of 10 µM 
of  HDC,  IAA  and  NMH  were  investigated  after  exposure  of  hERG  assay  using  100 nM  E-4031 
(a class III antiarrhythmic agent) as positive control. There was no statistically significant difference 
between  the  vehicle-  and  test  article-treated  groups,  while  a  substantial  tail  current  reduction  was 
observed  with  E-4031.  Based  on  these  results,  there  was  no  evidence  that  HDC  and  its  major 
metabolites inhibit hERG current in vitro. 
Page 12 of 54 
 
 
 
Acute cardiovascular response in dog (Study 82-0016) 
HDC was administered as a 10-minute s.c. infusion of 0.015 or 0.15 mg/kg (0.15 mg/kg approximately 
20-fold a clinical single dose) to anaesthetised male dogs (n = 3). Blood sampling was made pre-dose 
and at 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours following start of infusion. ECG (8 leads) were obtained pre-dose, at 15 and 
30 minutes and at 30-minute intervals up to 4 hours after start of infusion. Mortality, clinical signs and 
gross pathology were also evaluated. 
No treatment-related adverse clinical  signs or gross pathology findings were observed. The death of 
one animal at 0.15 mg/kg was judged as related to pre-existing hypoxia (results of pre-dose blood gas 
analysis)  and  the  animal  was  replaced.  No  other  treatment-related  ECG  or  blood  gas  changes  were 
observed.  At  0.015 mg/kg,  no  treatment-related  changes  were  observed.  At  0.15 mg/kg,  most 
haemodynamic parameters, including effects on heart rate, systolic and diastolic pressures (systemic, 
pulmonary),  left  ventricular  systemic  pressure,  ventricular  contraction/relaxation  and  cardiac  output 
and  stroke  volume,  were  minimally  to  moderately  affected.  Most  of  these  parameters  returned  to 
baseline levels. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Various  functional  classes  of  drugs  have  the  potential  to  interact  with  histamine:  compounds  that 
inhibit  histamine  metabolism  pathways 
(e.g.,  anti-malarial  and  anti-trypanosomal  agents, 
neuromuscular  blocking  agents),  release  endogenous  histamine  (include  a  variety  of  drugs),  act  as 
histamine antagonists (e.g., in treatment of gastric peptic ulcers, various anti-depressants) and/or act as 
cardiotonic agents (e.g., ouabain, digitalis). 
The  study  (Study 82-0039)  was  designed  to  investigate  whether  histamine  exacerbates  the 
IL-2-induced  pulmonary  capillary 
(10/sex/group)  were  administered 
subcutaneously  with  IL-2  and  HDC  in  saline  twice  daily  during  4 days  and  only  one  dose  on  the 
5th day, as follows: 
leakage.  Male 
rats 
-  Group #1 
-  Group #2 
-  Group #3 
-  Group #4 
-  Group #5 
-  Group #6 
-  Group #7 
-  Group #8 
Control (saline) 
Control (dextrose) 
IL-2 (low) 
IL-2 (high) 
HDC 
IL-2 (low)/HDC 
IL-2 (high)/HDC 
HDC/IL-2 (high) 
- 
- 
0.25 MIU/kg (to produce minimal to moderate toxic effect) 
2.5 MIU/kg (to produce a moderate to severe toxic effect) 
100 mg/kg 
0.25 MIU/kg/100 mg/kg 
2.5 MIU/kg/100 mg/kg 
100 mg/kg/2.5 MIU/kg 
In each group 5 animals per sex were sacrificed at Day 5 to determine total fluid volume of the organs 
with no further pathology and the remaining at Day 6 for a complete histopathology performed. 
No  mortality  occurred.  Clinical  signs  of  IL-2-induced  vascular  leak  syndrome  were  observed  in  a 
dose-related  fashion.  Neither  IL-2,  HDC  nor  the  combination  of  HDC  plus  IL-2  had  any  effects  on 
body  weights,  haematology,  urinalysis  or  clinical  chemistry.  Administration  of  both  doses  of  IL-2 
alone produced histological findings (vasculitis of lungs, liver bile duct hyperplasia and inflammation 
of  injection  site  andiatic  nerve).  The  combination  of  IL-2  and  histamine  gave  similar  histological 
effects.  Female  spleen-weight  data  suggested  that  the  combination  treatment  might  enhance  the 
(high-dose) IL-2 effect of spleen total fluid volume. On the contrary, in males, by adding histamine, a 
significantly lower high-dose IL-2 effect on lung, spleen and liver total fluid volumes was observed. 
Thus, IL-2 alone induced a dose-related vascular leakage. The extent of the capillary leakage was not 
aggravated, but rather tended to decrease by addition of histamine. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  documentation  consists  of  pharmaco-  and  toxicokinetic  studies  and  published 
reports on endogenous and exogenous histamine. 
Page 13 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Methods of analysis 
In  all  pharmaco-  and  toxicokinetic  studies  performed  by  the  applicant,  determination  of  plasma 
histamine levels was performed using commercially available ELISA (Immunotech) for rat, dog and 
rabbit and RIA (Immunotech) for monkey without subtraction of endogenous plasma histamine since 
none of the assays distinguish between exogenous and endogenous levels. 
Rat  and  rabbit  plasma  histamine  were  tested  linear  in  the  250-8.000 nM  range,  while  dog  plasma 
histamine was tested linear between 25-800 nM. Inter-assay precision and intra-assay precision were 
below 18.5% CV within predefined limits with one exception. 
Monkey,  but  not  apparently  rat,  rabbit  and  dog  plasma  histamine  was  highly  unstable  in  room 
temperature,  but  also  after  frozen  storage.  The  stability  was  somewhat  improved  by  the  addition  of 
aminoguanidine (diamine oxidase inhibitor). 
•  Absorption 
Endogenous levels of histamine were measured in various species with the highest levels found in the 
rat and the lowest in dogs and humans. The rabbit showed the greatest intra-individual variability in 
their endogenous plasma levels (Table 4). Higher levels of histamine were found in pregnant rats as 
also described in the literature. 
Table 4 
Main pharmacokinetics parameters after single administration 
Study 
Species 
n per 
dose 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
Route
Cmax 
(nmol/l) 
Tmax 
(h) 
AUC0-24h 
(nmol.h/l) 
82-0005TK  Rat 
male 
82-0010PK 
82-0009PK 
Rabbit 
female 
Dog 
female 
1 
5 
3 
2000 
s.c. 
563 000 
0.05 
0.5 
5 
50 
0.05 
0.5 
1.5 
5 
s.c. 
s.c. 
7 200 
1 100 
5 300 
54 700 
45 
390 
1 020 
2 600 
- 
24 
4.0 
0.5 
1.0 
0.4 
0.5 
0.5 
0.6 
313 000a 
67 100 
10 900 
30 000 
273 000b 
14 
400 
1 440 
5 500 
a  AUC(0.83-1h) 
b  Death of 4/5 rabbits - figures considered as estimates only 
T½ 
(h) 
- 
1.5 
0.6 
1.1 
3.7b 
- 
0.4 
1.7 
1.8 
Toxicokinetic data from a 28-day study (Study 82-0008PK) shows that the Cmax values were variable 
but  did  increase  proportionally  from  between  5  and  100 mg/kg  on  Day  28.  Female  animals  were 
generally less exposed than male animals. Tmax typically occurred within 0.1 to 0.3 hour, while t½ was 
longer  at  the  highest  dose  (100  mg/kg;  about  1  hour).  Baseline  Cmax  levels  were  between 
400-1,500 nM and AUC values at 0.5 and 5.0 mg/kg increased only slightly with dose; likely due to 
the high endogenous histamine levels. 
Both  Cmax  and  AUC  were  dose-proportional  between  the  5  and  50  mg/kg  in  rabbits,  even  though 
plasma  concentrations  showed  a  high  variability.  This  was  probably  due  to  the  variable  and  high 
endogenous plasma levels of histamine in this species (baseline ~ 500 ± 500 nM). 
Mean  Cmax  at  the  higher  doses  were  less  than  dose  proportional  in  dogs.  With  increased  dose, 
t½ increased.  AUC  values  were  slightly  greater  than  proportional  to  dose.  Only  female  dogs  were 
evaluated.  However  according  to  results  of  Study  82-0105PK,  female  dogs  were  somewhat  higher 
exposed  than  male  animals  at  the  higher  dose  level  (0.75  mg/kg).  Clearance  (Cl/F)  decreased  with 
increasing dose. 
No  pharmacokinetic  parameters  could  be  calculated  for  0.05  mg/kg  dose  since  most  of  the  plasma 
concentration values were below the limit of quantification (25.0 nmol/l). 
•  Distribution 
Page 14 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In mammalian tissues, endogenous histamine is present in all tissues in varying amounts ranging from 
less than 1 to over 100 μg/g. The distribution of exogenous histamine was determined in male rats in 
Study 82-0119 (non-GLP) and in a study performed by Rizell et al (13). 
Study 82-0119 
Intra-duodenal  administration  resulted  in  a  rapid  systemic  absorption  of  radioactivity  (plasma  and 
tissue tmax ~1h). Blood-to-plasma radioactivity ratios increased with time from 0.8 to 1.23, suggestive 
of  binding  to  blood  components.  Mean  tissue-plasma  concentration  ratios  were  similar  between  the 
2 doses and remained relatively constant over time. The highest radioactivity concentrations relative to 
plasma  were  found  in  tissues  associated  with  excretion  with  levels  up  to  130  μg-Eq./g  (i.e., kidney, 
urinary bladder, liver and colon). The lowest levels were detected in the brain. 
Rizell et al. 2002b (13) 
In this study, histamine concentrations were measured in interstitial fluid collected from normal and 
malignant  tissues  by  microdialysis  using  a  RIA  assay  (3H-histamine)  following  a  single  i.v.  dose  of 
0.5 mg/kg. The highest radioactivity (Cmax and AUC) was found in plasma, liver and in liver tumour 
while the levels in subcutis and subcutis tumour were lower. 
There is no information on the distribution to the foetus. 
•  Metabolism 
Histamine metabolism is well documented in the literature (29). Histamine is mainly metabolised by 
oxidation  by  diamine  oxidase  (DAO)  or  histaminase  and  ring  methylation  by  histamine  N-methyl 
transferase  (HMT)  and  there  is  an  extensive  first  pass  metabolism.  The  metabolising  enzymes  are 
conserved between species, but show variations in tissue distribution. 
Oxidation  by  DAO  is  the  preferential  pathways  of  renal  histamine  catabolism  in  several  species 
including dogs and humans. In this pathway, the biologically active IAA, which is a chemo-attractant 
for  leucocytes  and  an  inhibitor  of  histamine  release  from  leukocytes,  is  formed.  At  high  doses 
(≥ 50 mg/kg) IAA possesses analgesic and narcotic activities. This oxidative activity seems however 
low in rabbit and mouse kidney. Elevated DAO activity has been reported in the pregnant mouse, rat 
and hamster and there are high placental levels of DAO, especially in man and rat. 
The kidney is rich also in HMT. In the rat and guinea pig, deamination is the dominant route while in 
humans, as well as in the mouse, cat and dog, ring methylation appears to be the major pathway. In the 
rabbit and guinea pig, both routes appear to be important. 
One or both of the enzymes have also been found in the intestine, stomach, liver, lungs and heart in 
various species. In humans, DAO is primarily located in the small intestinal mucosa, placenta, liver, 
skin,  kidney,  thymus  and  granulocytes  whereas  the  HMT  activity  has  been  detected  in  the  small 
intestine, liver, kidney and monocytes. 
•  Excretion 
Histamine and its various metabolites have been identified in the urine of various mammals including 
man. Only a small fraction of histamine is excreted unchanged (30, 31). 
After  subcutaneous  injection  of  14C-histamine  to  male  dogs,  urinary  N-methyl  imidazole  acetic 
(NMIA)  acid  was  predominating,  followed  by  IAA  and  Nτ-methylhistamine  (NHM).  Only  in  this 
species, no unchanged histamine was detected in the urine. In humans, besides a significant proportion 
of IAA riboside (~20%) and small amounts of unchanged histamine (2-3%), the ratio of histamine and 
metabolites in the urine in humans after intra-dermal administration was similar in humans as in dogs. 
After  infusion,  excretion  by  the  renal  route  was  85-95%  with  methyl  imidazole  acetic  acid  as  the 
major urinary metabolite. Less than 10% was excreted as free histamine. 
Sex  differences  were  prominent  in  renal  histamine  metabolism.  In  the  mouse,  the  kidney  (and 
stomach) of females had a higher histamine-forming capacity (by action of histamine decarboxylase) 
Page 15 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared  to  males.  The  females  also  excrete  more  histamine  than  the  males,  but  there  is  a  great 
individual variation (32). 
In Study 82-0119, mass balance parameters for a single dose of histamine were determined as shown 
in Table 5. 
Table 5 
Study 82-0119 – Mass balance parameter after single administration 
Species 
Rat 
n 
3 
3 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
10 
100 
Route 
intraduodenal 
intraduodenal 
Anal. 
LSC 
LSC 
Urine 
(% dose) 
48±5 
54.3±2.6 
Faeces 
(% dose) 
31±15 
32.4±0.9 
Recovery 
(% dose) 
84±15 
93.1±1.2 
Time 
(h) 
24 
24 
After 24 hours, the total recovery was 84 and 93% in the 10 and 100 mg/kg dose groups respectively. 
There were no major differences between the doses. 
During  pregnancy,  urinary  excretion  of  histamine  is  increased  in  rodents.  During  the  last  third  of 
pregnancy, the rat produces large amounts of histamine as indicated by its secretion in urine (33). The 
mouse sometimes produces 100 times the pre-pregnant value (34). No such differences were reported 
regarding the pregnant rabbit. There is no information on whether histamine is excreted in breast milk. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Two in vitro studies showed that histamine and its major metabolites (IAA, NMH) did not show any 
important effects on induction on (Study XT033017) or inhibition (Study XT035014) of the CYP450 
expression in cultured human hepatocytes. 
Toxicology 
The  applicant  has  documented  the  safety  profile  of  HDC  alone  in  studies  of  single  and  repeat  dose 
toxicity,  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity,  genotoxicity  and  local  tolerance.  Subcutaneous 
administration was generally used. The dog, rat and rabbit were the main species. The dog is similar 
with human in terms of metabolic pathways as well as having low endogenous histamine levels and is 
thus considered to be a relevant species for human safety assessment. The rat has substantially higher 
endogenous histamine levels and it also tolerated much higher doses than the dog. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  toxicity  of  HDC  was  studied  in  rats  (non-GLP  studies  only),  dogs  and  rabbits.  In  all 
species, expected histamine related effects were observed. In rats, one ‘acute’ maximum tolerated dose 
(MTD)  of  2,000  mg/kg  (death  within  48  hours,  Cmax  1,000-fold,  AUC  >  500-fold  the  respective 
clinical exposure) and one ‘delayed’ MTD of 1,000 mg/kg (severe tissue necrosis at the injection site 
several weeks after administration, 25,000 times a proposed clinical single dose) were established. The 
highest non-lethal dose was 5 mg/kg in rabbits (Cmax, AUC about 100-fold the clinical exposure). The 
NOAEL  in  this  species  was  0.5  mg/kg,  with  Cmax  and  AUC  18-  and  230-fold  the  clinical  exposure 
after 1 mg. Dogs were most susceptible to histamine, where a 10-minute s.c. injection of 16.7 μg/kg 
(100 μg/kg/h)  caused  an  increased  heart  rate,  while  < 80  μg/kg/h  was  without  effect.  In  another  dog 
study  (non GLP),  clinical  signs  occurred  at  1.5  mg/kg,  at  Cmax  and  AUC  20-30-fold  the  clinical 
exposure at 1 mg/day. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The pivotal repeat dose toxicity studies were undertaken in rats (up to 100 mg/kg bid for 6 months) 
and  dogs  (up  to  0.5  mg/kg  bid  for  12 months).  Histamine-related  clinical  signs  occurred  in  both 
species (in rats: skin discoloration, warm to touch, injection site alopecia, dermal irritation, injection 
site  reactions,  in  dogs:  decreased  activity,  redness  of  ear,  eyes,  muzzle,  skin,  swelling  of  head, 
salivation, lacrimation and blood shot eyes). There were certain treatment-related changes of clinical 
chemistry  and  haematology  parameters  and  in  organ  weights  (in  rats:  increased  adrenal,  heart,  liver 
and lungs at 200 mg/kg/day, in dogs: increased adrenals, reduced thymus and spleen at 1 mg/kg/day). 
However,  there  were  no  histopathological  correlates.  These  changes  were  reversed  after  recovery  in 
Page 16 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
both species. Thus, expected histamine related effects were observed, while there was no unexpected 
toxicity. In rats, the NOEL was 0.5 mg/kg bid for 6 months, resulted 50-60-fold the Cmax and AUC the 
clinical exposure at 1 mg/day. In dogs, the NOEL was 0.05 mg/kg bid for 12 months, resulted in Cmax 
and  AUC  in  the  clinical  dose  range  while  toxicity  (mainly  clinical  signs)  was  seen  at  4-5-fold  the 
exposure. 
Table  6  shows  comparative  systemic  plasma  exposure  to  histamine  following  s.c.  administration  of 
HDC  in  the  rats,  rabbits,  dogs,  healthy  human  volunteers  (1  mg  s.c.)  and  patients  with  metastatic 
melanoma. 
Table 6 
Interspecies comparison of systemic plasma exposure to histamine following s.c. 
administration of HDC 
Study number  Species 
BW 
(kg) 
MP-MA 403 
MP-MA 103 
82-0104TK 
(6-month) 
82-0103TK 
(12-month) 
HHV 
MMP 
60 
60 
Rat 
0.25 
Dog 
10 
Dose 
(mg/kg)  Cmax
Mean systemic 
exposure 
a 
(nmol/l) 
49 
57 
2 950 
19 000 
224 000 
48 
239 
637 
NAb 
AUCa 
(nmol·h/l) 
22 
46 
2 710 
8 530 
215 000 
36 
192 
546 
NAb 
Margins animal-to-human ratio of 
dose/exposure 
BW 
BSA 
Cmax 
AUC 
- 
1 
29 
294 
5 880 
2.9 
15 
29 
147 
- 
1 
5 
48 
960 
1.65 
8 
16 
1110 
- 
1 
52 
333 
3 930 
<1 
4 
11 
NA 
- 
1 
59 
185 
4 674 
<1 
4 
12 
NA 
0.017 
0.017 
0.5 
5 
100 
0.05 
0.25 
0.5 
2.5 
Rabbit 
82-0014 
HHV = Healthy Human Volunteers; MMP = Patients with metastatic melanoma; BW = Body Weight; NA = Not applicable 
a 
b 
total histamine concentration (endogenous and exogenous) 
systemic exposure data were not used for the calculation due to high variability 
3 
Immunotoxicity 
• 
Effects of histamine on immune function (35-37) are: 
-  Affects function of various cells including eosinophils, neutrophils, T lymphocytes and suppressor 
T cells 
-  Down-regulates several immunological functions through its interactions with H2 receptors. 
- 
-  Shown to modulate the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance and may restore the Th1/Th2 cytokine network 
Inhibits the further release of histamine from mast cells and basophils 
and enhance anti-tumour activity of IL-2 
-  Triggers  the  acquisition  of  CD86  and  HLA-DR  antigens  on  human  monocytes  and  thus,  may 
facilitate the development of antigen-presenting dendritic cells from monocyte precursors 
The most relevant points in this context of this application are outlined below (the well-characterised 
role  of  histamine  as  a  mediator  in  immediate  hypersensitivity  and  allergic  response  is  not  further 
addressed). 
Histamine  down-regulates  several  immunological  parameters  through  its  interaction  with  H1  and  H2 
receptors.  The  suppressive  effect  on  lymphocyte  proliferation  and  cytokine  release  is  a  known 
property of histamine. Histamine inhibits certain functions of phagocytes and granulocytic cells, most 
notably, their ability to produce ROS and release TNF-α and IL-1-β. The inhibition by histamine on 
T-cell  proliferation  and  cytokine  production  was  closely  related  to  suppression  of  autocrine  IL-2 
synthesis in proliferating or cytokine-producing T cells (38-40). However, the dose and regimen of IL-
2  were  chosen  based  on  published  research  indicating  that  these  doses  and  schedule  will  have 
significant biological activities and overcome any suppressive effect of HDC. In support for the notion 
that  histamine  does  not  reduce  T-cell  activity  when  administered  with  IL-2,  Hansson  et  al. (41) 
showed that the addition of histamine and IL-2 to a mixture of mononuclear phagocytes and T-cells 
yielded a > 5-fold more efficient activation than that induced by IL-2 alone (as reflected by appearance 
of the CD69 activation antigen on the T-cell surface). 
Page 17 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consequently,  when  histamine  is  administered,  a  parallel  inhibition  of  T-cell  proliferation  and 
phagocyte production of oxygen radicals may occur, which hypothetically could counteract the desired 
protection of tumour-killing lymphocytes. However, the inhibition of T-cell proliferation by histamine 
is unlikely to occur during the concomitant administration of histamine with IL-2. Thus, the inhibition 
is secondary to inhibition of endogenous synthesis of IL-2 in T-cells and the co-administration of IL-2 
together with histamine counteracts the histamine-induced inhibition of T-cell function. 
In  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies,  there  was  no  evidence  that  HDC  causes  adverse  effects  on  the 
immune  system. In the rat studies, relevant parameters in terms  of immunotoxicity were differential 
white-cell  counts;  lymphoid  organ  weights  (thymus,  spleen  and  lymph  nodes);  and  microscopy  of 
lymphoid  tissues.  Although  changes  occurred  in  some  haematological  parameters  at  the  6-month 
timepoint (increased white blood cell count, segmented neutrophils and monocytes in at least one sex), 
the  effects  resolved  during  the  4-week  recovery  period.  No  treatment-related  changes  were  noted  in 
lymphoid organ weights and no adverse histopathological effects were detected in lymphoid tissues. 
The doses tested resulted in several 100-fold higher exposure than the intended clinical use. Moreover, 
in the dog studies, there were no findings that raise major concerns, although reduced spleen weights 
were seen. Although not substantially evaluated, there was no indication from the non-clinical primary 
pharmacology studies that the combination of IL-2 and histamine results in immunosuppression. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity  was  investigated  in  accordance  with  ICH  Notes  for  Guidance  (Standard  battery  for 
genotoxicity  testing  of  pharmaceuticals  [ICHS2B]  [CPMP/ICH/174/95]  and  Specific  aspects  of 
regulatory  genotoxicity  tests  for  pharmaceuticals  [ICHS2A]  [CPMP/ICH/141/95])  i.e.,  testing 
mutagenic  potential  in  bacteria,  a  mouse  lymphoma  assay  and  a  micronucleus  assay  in  the 
mouse (Table 7). 
Table 7 
Genotoxicity studies: overview 
Study ID 
Type of test 
Test system 
82-0025 
Gene mutations in 
bacteria, plate 
incorporation assay 
S. typhimurium 
(TA1535, TA1537, 
TA98, TA100) E. coli 
(WP2 uvrA) 
Concentrations 
Concentration range 
Metabolising system 
+/- S9 
0 to 5000 μg/plate 
(selected from prel. 
toxicity test) 
82-0026 
Gene mutations in 
mammalian cells 
Mouse lymphoma assay 
L5178Y cells 
+/- S9 (4 h incub) 
-S9 (24 h incub)  
0 to 5000 μg/ml 
61-0006 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in vivo 
Mouse, micronuclei in 
bone marrow. Males 
only, 10/harvest time 
0, 20, 63, 200, 632, 
2000 mg/kg 
Results 
Positive/negative/equivocal 
No mutagenic response, no 
precipitate, no toxicity at any 
concentration. Positive controls as 
expected. 
Negative 
No toxicity (< 50% reduced total 
growth) at 4 hours, only at 
5000 μg/ml at 24 hours 
Criteria for valid test fulfilled 
Negative 
Dose-related (fr LD) clinical signs, 
necrosis at injection site 
(> 632 mg/kg), 3 HD mice died 
Dose- and time related PCE reduction 
(bone marrow toxicity) (signif. fr 
632, 2000 mg/kg) 
No effect MN/ PCE ratio 
Negative 
There was no indication that HDC has a genotoxic potential. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Neither 
in  vivo  assay  was  performed  for 
carcinogenicity study was found in the published literature. 
investigating  carcinogenic  potential  nor  formal 
•  Reproduction toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity study was conducted in rats with doses up to 100 mg/kg bid. 
In all studies, the high dose caused toxicity in the parent generation (injection site reactions, reduced 
Page 18 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
body  weight  and  food  intake).  Effects  on  male  fertility  (decreased  weights  of  prostate  and  seminal 
vesicles and increased sperm density) were observed only at 100 mg/kg bid. In females dosed 15 days 
before  mating  to  gestation  Day  7,  reduced  numbers  of  implantations  and  of  viable  foetuses  were 
found.  The  incidences  were  similar  at  all  doses  and  the  reduction  was  statistically  significant  vs. 
controls at low and high dose. No systemic exposure data were obtained but in non-pregnant rats, the 
low  dose  corresponded  to  an  AUC  > 80-fold  the  clinical  AUC  after  1  mg  HDC.  No  developmental 
toxicity was seen after dosing of rats (high dose 100 mg/kg bid) or rabbits (high dose 1.25 mg/kg bid) 
during the organogenetic period. 
In  the  peri-  and  post-natal  development  study,  the  HDC  caused  maternal  toxicity  and  the  offspring 
showed toxicity during lactation (fewer live pups at lactation Day 21 compared to lactation Day 4) but 
not  after  weaning.  The  F2  generation  was  not  affected.  The  maternal  and  offspring  NOAEL  was 
10 mg/kg/day. There is no information on exposure of maternal rats, of pups or about milk transfer. 
Based on these data, it is recommended that women treated with Ceplene should not breastfeed. 
•  Local tolerance 
Local  tolerance  studies  have  been  conducted  in  the  rabbits  and  guinea  pigs  with  an  HDC  gel 
formulation.  In  the  primary  ocular  irritation  test,  HDC  was  classified  as  a  minimal  eye  irritant.  No 
effects were seen in the delayed contact hypersensitivity test or in the primary dermal irritation test. In 
addition, injection sites have been investigated in detail in the repeat dose toxicity studies. Injection 
site reactions were common findings, primarily at high doses in rats (200 mg/kg/day). 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The  applicant  has  conducted  one  interaction/combination  toxicity  study  (Study  82-0039)  in  rats  to 
study the potential for histamine, known to increase capillary permeability, to aggravate IL-2 induced 
capillary leakage (see Pharmacodynamic drug interactions section). 
Antigenicity 
Not applicable 
Dependence 
Not applicable 
Metabolites 
No study was conducted 
Studies on impurities 
All  impurities  are  generated  during  the  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  and  there  are  no  new 
impurities in the final product. These impurities have been identified and characterised in accordance 
with  the  relevant  ICH  guidelines.  The  process  impurity  D704  has  been  fully  characterised  with  a 
specification level of ≤ 0.2% w/w. 
One residual solvent (cyclohexanol) does not have a release limit in ICH Q3C (Note for guidance on 
Impurities:  Residual  Solvents  [CPMP/ICH/283/95]).  The  applicant  has  provided  calculations  of  a 
permitted daily exposure (PDE). The maximal daily intake is < 1% of the estimated PDE raising no 
concern. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment  
The  applicant  has  provided  an  environmental  risk  assessment,  taking  into  account  the  Guideline 
(Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use [CPMP/SWP/4447/00]) that 
came  into  operation  on  December  1,  2006.  In  line with  this  guideline,  the  applicant  has  identified  a 
refined Fpen, which was justified by market penetration data, but also taken a worst case assessment 
with a higher Fpen. The following is concluded: 
•  The low market penetration factor of 0.007% is not unexpected for a new treatment in an orphan 
indication.  However,  in  a  worst-case  assessment,  an  Fpen  of  0.05%  (i.e.,  the  disease  prevalence 
threshold  for  orphan  designation)  have  been  applied  as  follows:  The  PECSURFACE  WATER  is 
Page 19 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
estimated  to  be  1.0  x  10-4  µg/l,  one  hundred  times  less  than  the  action  limit  of  0.01 µg/l  that 
triggers a Phase II assessment. 
•  The  above  low  predicted  surface  water  concentration  for  HDC,  combined  with  the  innocuous 
nature and likely ready biodegradation of histamine and its human metabolites, indicates that the 
use of HDC in the proposed indication should pose a negligible risk to the environment. 
•  No  precautionary  measures  are  considered  necessary  regarding  environmental  release  following 
the use of HDC in patients. 
•  No  special  labelling  requirements  regarding  environmental  aspects  are  considered  necessary  for 
HDC. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
From  a  non-clinical  primary  pharmacodynamic  point  of  view,  the  applicant  did  not  provide  any 
proprietary studies for their proof of concept. The applicant commented that AML has no valid animal 
model that can simulate the disease correctly and therefore the best way to show its effect on AML is 
by  in-vitro  work.  Although  there  is  a  plausible  scientific  rationale  for  the  efficacy  of  histamine  in 
combination  with  IL-2,  a  definite  conclusion  cannot  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the  non-clinical 
information.  There  are  too  many  uncontrolled  variables  in  the  literature  studies  such  as  timing  of 
dosing,  type  of  tumour,  doses  used,  length  of  treatment,  etc.  The  question  of  efficacy  in  AML  is 
deferred to the clinical dossier. 
Histamine is a pleiotropic endogenous biologically active amine that is widely distributed in the body 
and exerts multiple functions. Physiological responses to histamine include anaphylaxis, vasodilation, 
vasoconstriction,  gastric  acid  secretion  and  neurotransmission.  The  cardiovascular  response  to 
histamine  may  be  considered  a  major  dose  limiting  effect  and  in  overdose  profound  tachycardia, 
cardiac arrhythmias, hypotension, and shock could be expected. Potential adverse reactions, including 
effects on the CNS, cardiovascular system, immune/inflammatory response, and respiration could be 
anticipated  from  the  known  pharmacology  of  histamine  in  an  overdose  situation.  These  effects 
influenced the selection of the therapeutic dose and the choice of 0.5 mg/day twice daily as likely the 
maximum, safe, well-tolerated dose in man administered on an outpatient basis. 
The applicant conducted in-vitro and in-vivo studies to show that at doses up to 21 times the clinical 
dose, effects on cardiac conduction should be unlikely. Other haemodynamic parameters were affected 
at the highest dose but had returned to baseline by the end of the monitoring period. 
Toxicity  to  IL-2  is  related  to  its  effect  on  increased  capillary  permeability.  A  proprietary  study  was 
conducted to show that histamine does not exacerbate the effects of IL-2 on capillary permeability as 
evidenced by histology. No other studies on the combination treatment were performed. 
HDC  has  the  potential  to  interfere  with  certain  drugs.  Certain  P450  isozymes  that  modulate  gene 
function  by  controlling  the  level  of  oxygenated  lipids  represent  at  least  one  common  intracellular 
target  of  growth-regulatory  biogenic  amines  (such  as  histamine).  In  addition,  exogenous  drugs 
including anti-oestrogens, anti-androgens and certain antidepressants also have the potential to target 
such  isozymes  and  modulate  cell  growth.  These  findings  could  be  viewed  as  being  of  potential 
relevance  to  the  use  of  HDC  as  part  of  a  treatment  for  AML.  Critical  drug  interactions  are  not 
anticipated under the current protocol. 
The doses and regimen of IL-2 were chosen based on published research indicating that these doses 
and regimen will have significant biological activities on the target lymphocytes. The dose levels were 
selected  to  target  primarily  high  affinity  and  intermediate  affinity  IL-2  receptors  on  NK cells  and 
T cells. 
Histamine binding to H2 receptors on parietal cells has been shown to produce a comparable median 
effective  dose  (ED50),  which  led  to  the  selection  of  the  human  dose  of  0.5  mg  of  the  histamine 
dihydrochloride  salt  as  a  compromise  to  allow  for  maximum  gastric  acid  secretion  and  minimal 
adverse  side  effects.  Twice-daily  dosing  appears  to  be  appropriate  to  allow  safe  and  effective 
Page 20 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protection  of  NK cells  and  T cells,  and  yet,  not  compromise  the  innate  defence  against  infectious 
agents. 
Similarities exist in the pharmacokinetic profile of histamine across the species studied (rats, rabbits, 
dogs,  humans).  Histamine  was  measured  in  rats,  rabbits,  dogs  and  humans  by  a  validated  enzyme 
immunoassay.  In  monkeys,  radioimmunoassay  was  used  for  histamine  measurements.  There  was  no 
way  to  differentiate  between  endogenous  and  exogenous  histamine  and  therefore  total  histamine 
measurements in plasma were reported with the assumption that at low doses the measurement would 
mainly  be  of  endogenous  levels,  whereas  at  high  levels,  the  most  likely  source  for  histamine  was 
exogenous. Endogenous circulating levels of histamine in plasma vary widely among species with the 
highest levels being reported in rat and guinea pig, followed by dog and monkey, and the lowest levels 
in man. 
The  proprietary  pharmacokinetic  studies  conducted  by  the  applicant  were  limited.  There  were 
absorption studies conducted in the rat (single high dose), rabbit and dog. These studies showed that 
histamine  is  rapidly  absorbed  with  tmax  reached  in  approximately  one  hour.  Histamine  has  a  short 
plasma  half-life  that  is  associated  with  rapid  clearance  from  the  body  and  a  large  volume  of 
distribution. Cmax was slightly less than dose proportional but as the dose increased the plasma half-life 
increased  and  clearance  decreased.  Its  extensive  distribution  outside  of  the  plasma  compartment  is 
consistent  with  the  pleiotropic  effects  that  histamine  has  on  various  organ  systems.  As  mast  cell 
granules are the main storage site for histamine it logically follows that the distribution of mast cells in 
the body correlates with the areas where histamine levels are highest, such as skin, connective tissue, 
gastric mucosa and mucosa of the bronchial tree. The liver is the preferential site for histamine uptake. 
The  metabolism  of  endogenous  or  exogenous  histamine  is  qualitatively  similar  in  all  mammalian 
species. Methylation, catalysed by HMT, is the major pathway of metabolism in humans, as well as in 
the mouse, cat, and dog. In the rat, deamination via the DAO (or histaminase) pathway is the dominant 
route.  Most  of  the  product,  NMH,  is  converted  by  monoamine  oxidase  to  NMIAA.  Each  metabolic 
pathway  can  be  blocked  by  enzyme  inhibition  or  interfering  compounds.  Histamine  metabolism  has 
been  largely  elucidated  by  analysis  of  urinary  metabolites  after  the  administration  of  radiolabelled 
histamine.  From  the  applicant’s  proprietary  studies,  it  is  unlikely  that  histamine  or  its  major 
metabolites are able to interact with CYP P450 enzyme system in any way. 
Histamine is rapidly cleared from the body primarily via the kidneys at higher doses. 
The  toxicity  associated  with  the  use  of  histamine  dihydrochloride  is  related  to  exaggerated 
pharmacological responses in the species studied (rats, dogs, rabbits and monkeys). The dog was the 
most sensitive species to the effects of histamine whilst the rat was the least sensitive species. This is 
evident from the wide variation in the dose that was maximally tolerated and the respective NOAEL. 
The  general  lack  of  cross-species  consistency  of  the  various  effects,  the  ready  normalisation  of  the 
effects during the recovery period and the absence of any histopathological correlates, strongly suggest 
a  pharmacodynamic  rather  than  a  toxicological  mechanism.  In  rats:  red  skin,  warm  to  the  touch, 
effects on adrenals, heart, liver, lungs. In dogs: dermal irritation, hypoactivity, increased respiration, 
scratching, biting, rubbing dose site, vocalisation during and after dosing, warm to touch, recumbence, 
excessive  salivation,  decreased  blood  pressure  (Day 1),  selected  organ  weight  changes  (adrenals, 
spleen,  prostate  and  ovaries  not  correlated  with  adverse  histopathology  findings,  and  thus,  not 
considered to be biologically relevant), minor effects on clinical chemistry and urinalysis parameters 
(not  associated  with  gross  pathology),  and  lymphoid  depletion  in  the  thymus.  All  findings  were 
resolved  following  the  recovery  period.  In  addition,  the  effects  noted  seem  most  unlikely  to  be 
clinically  relevant.  Although  the  precise  nature  of  the  pharmacological  mechanisms  involved  in  the 
causation  of  the  reversible  effects  noted  in  the  chronic  toxicity  studies  remains  unclear,  it  seems 
possible that changes in microvascular permeability may play a role (42-44). 
Histamine  dihydrochloride  is  devoid  of  genotoxic  potential  as  described  by  the  ICH  battery  of 
genotoxicity  tests  performed  on  the  product.  No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed.  This  was 
considered  acceptable  based  on  criteria  such  as  the  conversion  of  the  active  ingredient  to  a 
Page 21 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nature-identical  substance  following  administration;  the  transient  increase  in  plasma  histamine  in 
patients leading to a relatively minor increase in the overall burden; the serious nature of the disease 
being treated and the associated low life expectancy; the non genotoxic nature of the drug substance. 
The lack of carcinogenicity studies is acceptable, considering the severity of the disease with a short 
life  expectancy,  histamine  is  an  endogenous  substance,  the  use  of  HDC  will  lead  only  a  transient 
increase in plasma histamine in patients leading to a relatively minor increase in the overall burden, 
the non genotoxic nature of the drug substance and no absence evidence of pre-neoplastic pathology in 
the repeat dose toxicity studies. 
Histamine dihydrochloride is not considered to have any adverse effects on reproduction. The effects 
noted  during  the  reproduction  studies  were  similar  to  those  noted  during  the  repeat  dose  studies. 
Although doses were, in some cases, maternally toxic, this did not have any effects on the embryo and 
foetus. 
irritation 
Dermal 
that  histamine 
dihydrochloride  would  be  classified  as  a  minimal  irritant,  but  the  study  showed  no  associated 
microscopic lesions caused by the treatment. HDC does not cause delayed contact hypersensitivity. 
in  New  Zealand  white  rabbits  revealed 
tests  performed 
Ceplene solution for injection 1 mg/ml does not represent a risk to the environment primarily due to 
the  low  market  penetration  factor  of  0.007%  and  the  calculated  PEC  SURFACEWATER  for  histamine 
dihydrochloride is below the 0.01 µg/l guideline threshold concentration. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Ceplene has been investigated clinically for use in combination with cytokines such as IL-2 and IFN-α 
for the treatment of patients with malignant melanoma, renal cell carcinoma and AML. 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
The CHMP requested a GCP inspection of Study MP-MA-0201 which was conducted in May 2007 
and concluded the sites were ICH-GCP compliant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Seven clinical studies evaluated the pharmacokinetics and potential PK/PD correlations, following the 
subcutaneous administration of HDC solution. 
No clinical pharmacokinetic studies of HDC were conducted in the AML target patient population. 
•  Analytical methods 
Three bio-analytical methods were used (RIA, HPLC and ELISA). Pharmacokinetic parameters were 
calculated using non-compartmental methods. 
•  Absorption 
The data from a total of 51 healthy subjects and 29 patients with malignant disease (mainly melanoma) 
were  analysed.  Each  subject/patient  received  1  mg  HDC,  infusion  rates  differed  between  studies 
(10-25 minutes). The calculated PK parameters for each study are presented in Table 8 for total and 
baseline corrected histamine. 
Page 22 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters for total histamine in plasma after 
subcutaneous injection of 1 mg 
Popul
ation 
Study 
N 
Baseline 
histamine 
(nmol/l) 
Cmax 
(nmol/l) 
tmax 
(h) 
d 
AUC0-t
(nmol•h/l) 
AUC0-∞ 
(nmol•h/l) 
t1/2 
(h) 
CL/F 
(l/h/kg) 
Vz/F 
(l/kg) 
HV 
HV 
HV 
MM 
MM 
MM 
HV 
HV 
MM 
MM 
403a 
0501/ 
0502b 
504b 
0103b 
0503b 
MM2c 
403a 
0501/ 
0502b 
0103b 
0503b 
MM2c 
21 
6 
24 
14 
8 
7 
21 
6 
14 
8 
Total histamine 
1.5±0.9 
(0-3.0) 
2.4±2.3  
(0-6.8) 
- 
49.10 
(19.54) 
42.8 
(25.7) 
35.0 
0.28 
(0.09) 
0.389 
(0.086) 
0.40 
4.9±6.6 
(1.3-25.6) 
2.0±2.3 
(0-7.4) 
0.7-4.2 
57.1 
(25.0) 
33.4 
(14.4) 
0.53 
(0.47) 
0.531 
(0.339) 
21.7-86.9 0.13-1.00
22.3 
(7.8) 
34.9 
(12.3) 
25 
(10) 
46.4 
(25.6) 
28.2 
(10.4) 
10.8-44.5 
24.5 
(7.6) 
44.6 
(11.6) 
31 
(15) 
58.5 
(47.8) 
33.5 
(10.5) 
16.0-49.2 
0.27 
(0.11) 
1.51 
(0.26) 
0.71 
(0.27) 
0.75 
(0.79) 
1.69 
(1.86) 
0.39-2.80 
0.39 
(0.09) 
Baseline-corrected histamine 
47.6 
(19.6) 
40.4 
(25.4) 
52.2 
(23.5) 
31.4 
(13.3) 
20.9 
(7.8) 
27.3 
(11.8) 
36.4 
(21.4) 
24.2 
(12.1) 
7.2-30.4 
0.53 
(0.34) 
20.9-84.9 0.13-1.00
22.3 
(8.0) 
35.2d 
(7.3) 
36.9 
(22.9) 
0.23 
(0.09) 
0.90d 
(0.34) 
0.43 
(0.38) 
3.46 
(1.68) 
1.38 
(0.46) 
2.9 
(0.9) 
1.97 
(0.96) 
2.21 
(0.90) 
1.7-5.3 
4.05 
(2.4) 
1.69d 
(0.36) 
2.78 
(1.22) 
1.53 
(1.43) 
2.92 
(0.74) 
3.1 
(1.5) 
1.42 
(0.41) 
6.76 
(9.05) 
1.7-17.5 
1.52 
(1.56) 
2.32d 
(1.25) 
1.45 
(0.97) 
7 
MM 
HV: healthy volunteers, MM: malignant melanoma patients 
a 
b 
c 
d 
infusion duration 10 minutes 
infusion duration 20 minutes 
infusion duration 10, 15 or 25 minutes, range given 
last sampling time (t) was in study 403: 60 minutes, 0103: 120 minutes, 0501, 0502 and 0503: 240 minutes, 
MM2: 300 minutes, 504: 24 hours 
7.4-30.8 
0.12-1.62  2.5-12.6 
0.8-12.5 
Inter-individual variability is high. CV% was 40-60% for Cmax and 35-55% for AUC0-t, with a higher 
variability in patients than in healthy volunteers. 
Pharmacokinetic  data  from  two  different  occasions  is  available  in  one  patient.  There  was  a  large 
difference in exposure in this patient (AUC0-t was 27.8 and 10.8 nmol⋅h/l, although the same dose was 
given at both occasions), suggesting large intra-individual variability. 
The absolute bioavailability has not been determined. 
•  Distribution 
There  is  no  information  regarding  plasma  protein-binding.  As  there  are  no  data  after  intravenous 
administration, information regarding Vss is not available and Vss/F could not be estimated. However, 
Vz/F (parameter of limited value) was reported (Table 8) and differed considerably between studies. 
•  Metabolism 
No data on metabolism were provided. The pathways of synthesis and catabolism of histamine in man 
are well known (45). 
Under  physiological  conditions,  the  metabolites  of  histamine  have  very  little  or  no  activity  and  are 
excreted in the urine. 
•  Elimination 
Histamine is mainly eliminated by metabolism in the liver and other tissues. As there are no data after 
intravenous  administration,  information  regarding  CL  is  not  available.  CL/F  varied  considerably 
between studies and was on average around 2 l/h/kg. Half-life also varied between studies and was on 
average  between  0.5  and  1  hour  for  exogenous  histamine  and  between  0.75  and  1.5  hour  for  total 
histamine (Table 8). 
Page 23 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The renal handling of infused 14C-histamine was studied in healthy male subjects by measurement of 
14C-histamine  and  its  metabolites  in  arterial  and  renal  venous  blood  and  in  the  urine.  In  man,  the 
radioactivity  of  exogenously-administered  14C-histamine  is  largely  excreted  in  the  urine  during  the 
first 6 hours. A large part of the histamine removed from the blood is metabolised in the kidney with 
only  a  small  fraction  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine.  The  major  metabolites  found  in  the  urine  of 
healthy persons are N-methylhistamine and N-methyl imidazole acetic acid (MIAA). 
The  renal  extraction  ratio  of  histamine  from  human  kidney  is  0.7-0.8.  This  high  extraction  ratio  for 
whole blood implies that a tubular transport mechanism in the kidney is responsible for renal removal 
of histamine from the blood. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  and  time  dependency  has  not  been  studied.  Pharmacokinetic  data  are  available 
only after single dose administration of 1 mg. 
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  HDC  was  evaluated  6  healthy  and  17  renally  impaired  subjects 
(Study MP-MA-0501).  HDC  was  administered  at  a  single  dose  of  1 mg/ml  by  s.c.  infusion  over 
20 minutes  on  Day 1.  Renal  impairment  has  no  significant  influence  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
histamine. 
Published data show that when renal function is compromised due to renal disease, e.g. in the case of 
chronic  pyelonephritis  (inulin  clearance  was  5 ml/min),  the  extraction  of  14C-histamine  from  whole 
blood  was  reduced,  51%  in  patients  vs.  74-86%  in  healthy  volunteers.  In  addition,  in  chronic  renal 
failure  in  23  patients  with  a  mean  serum  creatinine  concentration  of  5.1 mg/dl,  the  mean  plasma 
histamine concentration was 5.5 ± 2.0 nmol/l, compared to 1.9 ± 0.4 nmol/l in 16 healthy controls. 
Vital  signs  were  monitored  and  it  was  reported  that  in  the  group  with  severe  renal  impairment, 
decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (for which baseline values were higher compared to 
the  other  groups)  were  observed  at  plasma  histamine  concentrations,  which  caused  no  appreciable 
decrease in blood pressure in the other groups. 
Impaired liver function 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  HDC  was  evaluated  6  healthy  and  18  hepatically  impaired  subjects 
(Study MP-MA-0502). Each subject was allocated to 1 of 3 grades (Grade A, B and C) using Pugh’s 
modification of Child’s classification, during a pre-study visit performed within 1 week of Day 1. On 
Day 1, each subject received a single dose of HDC at 1 mg/ml by s.c. infusion over 20 minutes. 
A summary of pharmacokinetic parameters is presented in Table 9. 
Table 9 
Study MP-MA-0502 - Summary of pharmacokinetics of total histamine 
Baseline histamine (nmol/l) 
Cmax (nmol/l) 
tmax (h) 
AUC0-t (nmol•h/l) 
AUC0-∞ (nmol•h/l) 
CL/F (l/h/kg) 
VZ/F (l/kg) 
t1/2,Z (h) 
Cmax/Dose (nmol/l/nmol/kg) 
AUC0→τ/Dose (nmol•hr/l/nmol/kg) 
AUC0→∞/Dose (nmol•hr/l/nmol/kg) 
Normal 
function 
n = 6 
2.1±1.1 (0-3.0) 
31.8±5.2 
0.417±0.053 
35.2±5.3 
59.8 
1.38±0.46 
1.08 
2.1 
0.49±0.12 
0.544±0.129 
0.928 
Severe 
impairment 
n = 6 
Mild 
impairment 
n = 6 
Moderate 
impairment 
n = 6 
1.9±1.6 (0-3.8)  118±175 (2.0-442)  77±77 (8.6-214) 
371±438 
0.389±0.174 
527.5±600.7 
992.8 
0.04 
0.07 
1.3 
0.45±0.2 
10.206±11.554 
27.480 
151±54.7 
1.201±1.542 
319.7±197.4 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.86±0.77 
4.113±2.952 
NA 
35.6±21.0 
0.386±0.165 
27.6±13.2 
21.5±20.2 
6.66±5.61 
3.13±2.30 
0.3±0.1 
0.58±0.29 
0.371±0.212 
0.233±0.196 
Page 24 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Median plasma histamine concentrations were similar in subjects with normal hepatic function and in 
subjects with mild hepatic impairment, while median plasma histamine concentrations were higher in 
subjects with moderate and severe hepatic impairment. 
Vital  signs  were  monitored  and  it  was  reported  transient  effects  (decreased  in  supine  systolic  and 
diastolic blood pressure more pronounced according to the hepatic impairment) in which returned to 
baseline value within approximately 1 hour after the start of the injection. No significant differences 
were  observed 
in  histamine,  baseline-corrected,  N-methylhistamine  or  baseline-corrected 
N-methylhistamine  pharmacokinetic  parameter  estimates  among  the  study  groups.  Therefore,  no 
alteration in dosing is indicated in subjects with hepatic impairment, although higher plasma histamine 
concentrations may be encountered in subjects with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. 
Gender 
Potential difference in pharmacokinetics between men and women was evaluated in healthy volunteers 
and in patients. 
No  difference  is  observed  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  using  baseline-corrected  histamine 
concentrations between male and female patients with advanced malignant melanoma except a shorter 
half-life than men (men: 0.53 hour, women: 0.28 hour). 
Race 
A  comparison  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  by  ethnic  origin  was  provided  by  the  applicant. 
Although the study was small, with 5, 33 and 10 Asian, Caucasian and Hispanic subjects, respectively, 
no clinically significant differences between groups were observed. 
Weight 
In  the  overall  pharmacokinetic  analysis,  weight  was  found  to  have  no  significant  influence  on  the 
AUC of histamine. 
Elderly 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  histamine  was  examined  across  an  age  continuum  via  a  linear  regression 
analysis.  The  minimum  age  was  19  years  and  the  maximum  age  was  80 years.  The  mean  age  was 
50 years.  Age  did  not  have  any  significant  effect  on  any  of  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of 
histamine. 
Children 
Neither paediatric study was conducted nor patients less than 18 years of age enrolled in the clinical 
studies. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro 
Two  in  vitro  studies  (reports  XT035014  and  XT033017)  to  determine  the  effect  of  histamine  on  a 
battery  of  CYP  450  isoenzymes  have  been  conducted.  The  results  indicated  that  histamine, 
N-methylhistamine and imidazoleacetic acid had little or no capacity to inhibit CYP 450 isoenzymes 
neither to induce CYP1A2 or CYP3A4 in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. 
In vivo 
In Study MP-MA-0503 the interaction between HDC and IL-2 was evaluated in a total of 12 patients 
with either malignant melanoma (8) or renal cell carcinoma (4). This was a single-site, crossover study 
whereby each patient received HDC (1 mg) alone; IL-2 (18 MIU) alone; IL-2 (18 MIU) followed by 
HDC (1 mg); and HDC (1 mg) followed by IL-2 (18 MIU) during separate clinic admissions. Table 10 
summarises the study results. 
Page 25 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
Study MP-MA-0503 - Summary of pharmacokinetics of total histamine and IL-2 
HDC alone 
41.7 (18.6) 
0.503 (0.239) 
31.7 (14.6) 
36.8 (13.3) 
2.53 (1.58) 
Histamine 
IL-2 before 
HDC 
32.9 (12.8) 
0.576 (0.365) 
26.8 (11.8) 
29.5 (14.6) 
1.15 (1.27) 
HDC before 
IL-2 
33.7 (13.5) 
0.399 (0.153) 
28.7 (10.1) 
39.9 (27.8) 
2.42 (3.53) 
IL-2 alone 
2488 (933) 
2.95 (1.67) 
15866 (4165) 
16885 (5129) 
3.02 (0.58) 
IL-2 
IL-2 before 
HDC 
1739 (745) 
2.7 (1.7) 
12329 (3850) 
13024 (3985) 
3.10 (0.91) 
HDC before 
IL-2 
1982 (900) 
2.63 (1.46) 
13687 (4430) 
14153 (4464) 
2.85 (0.73) 
Cmax (nmol/l) 
tmax (h) 
AUC0-t (nmol•h/l) 
AUC0-∞ (nmol•h/l) 
t1/2 (h) 
IL-2 appeared having no clinically significant influence on histamine pharmacokinetics. HDC reduced 
IL-2 Cmax  in  malignant  melanoma  cancer  patients  but  had  no  or  limited  effect  on  histamine 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  patients  with  renal  cell  carcinoma  and  on  the  other  pharmacokinetic 
parameters than IL-2 Cmax in patients with malignant melanoma. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
In vivo pharmacokinetic interaction studies were conducted on cultures of human hepatocytes. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  submitted.  Donskov  et  al.  (46)  have  published 
pharmacodynamic data in renal cell carcinoma. 
•  Mechanism of action 
No clinical studies to elucidate the mechanism of action of HDC in conjunction with low dose IL-2 in 
AML have been presented. 
•  Primary and secondary pharmacology 
Primary and secondary pharmacology 
Study  MP-MA-103  comprised  a  substudy  with  the  objectives  to  evaluate  changes  in  biomarkers 
indicative of oxidative stress and immune cell function after HDC + IL-2 administration. The primary 
endpoints  were  changes,  over  time,  in  biomarkers,  including  CD3ζ,,  neopterin,  IL-6  and  oxidative 
burst. Treatment with HDC and IL-2 provided a durable effect leading to an increased expression of 
CD3ζ,  associated  with  a  significantly  increased  proportion  (p <  0.0001)  of  circulating  NK  cells 
(CD56+)  in  responding  patients.  Oxidative  stress  parameters  at  baseline  and  during  therapy  were 
significantly elevated in patients with progressive disease. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Study  MP-MA-403  was  a  Phase I,  dose-escalating,  safety  and  pharmacokinetic  study  of  HDC  in 
healthy  human  volunteers.  Three  dose  levels  were  tested  10,  15  and  20  μg/kg  by  subcutaneous 
injection  BID  for  14  consecutive  days.  Thereafter  subjects  were  engaged  in  14  days  of  outpatient 
follow-up. On Day 29 they received a 1-mg dose of HDC given repeatedly at least 2 hours apart in 
3 successively  increased  rates  of  injection  (50,  100  and  150  μg/min).  For  safety  and  tolerance 
25 subjects were analysed. 
The  study  drug  was  generally  well  tolerated.  No  clear  dose-response  relationship  was  revealed. 
Systolic and diastolic blood pressures tended to fall from baseline (range 5-30 mmHg) and heart rate 
increased post-dose. These effects resolved without treatment in 40 to 60 minutes. 
All subjects experienced at least one drug-related adverse event (AE). These were numerous (such as 
flushing,  headache,  nausea  and  injection  site  reactions),  but  generally  they  were  expected  effects  of 
histamine,  transient  and  resolved  without  treatment  or  sequelae.  No  serious  adverse  events  (SAE) 
occurred in the study. Two subjects discontinued due to an AE, one with nausea and an ear disorder of 
moderate intensity and the other with severe asthenia. Apart from transient changes in one subject, no 
marked changes in haematology and chemistry laboratory parameters were seen. 
Page 26 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy 
A total of 15 clinical studies were conducted evaluating the efficacy and safety of HDC, only 2 clinical 
studies  (Studies  AML-1  and  MP-MA-0201)  in  the  patient  population  of  the  proposed  indication 
(Table 11), the other studies in malignant melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, chronic hepatitis C. 
The  clinical  efficacy  data  arises  from  a  population  of  359  AML  patients.  Study  AML-1  was  a 
single-arm, exploratory dose-finding Phase II single-arm study in 39 patients. Study MP-MA-0201 in 
320 patients was a multi-national, randomised, pivotal, Phase III study designed to assess the efficacy 
of  HDC  administered  in  combination  with  IL-2  compared  to  standard  of  care  (defined  as  no 
treatment). 
Page 27 of 54 
 
 
 
Table 11 
List of clinical studies in AML patients 
Study number 
Design 
Study objective 
Dosage 
AML-1 
Phase II, investigator-sponsored, 
single-arm, non-controlled 
Assess the clinical safety and effect on QoL 
of long-term immunotherapy 
MP-MA-0201 
Phase III, multicentre, open-label, 
non-controlled, randomised 
Determine if HDC and IL-2 could prolong 
duration of leukaemia-free survival compared 
with no treatment in AML pts in CR 
IL-2: 1 MIU/m2, s.c., BID, Days 1–21 
HDC: 0.3–0.7 mg, s.c., BID, Days 1–21; Other 
maintenance low-dose chemotherapy 
(cytarabine and thioguanine) was 
administered as alternating courses 
Arm A 
IL-2: 1 μg/kg, s.c., BID, Days 1-21 
HDC: 0.5 mg s.c., BID, Days 1-21 
Arm B 
No treatment 
Rest period of 3 to 6 weeks between cycles 
Number of 
patients by arm: 
entered 
39 
Diagnosis 
Study 
duration 
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia 
2 years or until 
disease relapse 
160/160 
Acute myeloid 
leukaemia 
18 months, 
consisting of 
ten cycles plus 
rest periods 
Page 28 of 54 
 
•  Dose response study 
No dose-response study was performed. 
Selection  and  timing  of  dose  for  the  pivotal  study was  based  on  published  data  as  mentioned  in  the 
primary and secondary pharmacology section. 
Bibliographical data concerning the primary pharmacology were presented regarding IL-2 and HDC. 
Published data on histamine in normal human volunteers indicated that doses of 0.3-0.7 mg histamine 
base  (corresponds  to  0.5–1.0  mg  HDC)  were  maximally  effective  on  H2-receptors  to  induce  gastric 
acid  secretion,  yet  minimising  intolerable  side  effects  such  as  intense  flushing,  hypotension  and 
headache. Histamine binding to H2-receptors on parietal cells (leading to maximal acid secretion) and 
leukocytes has been shown to produce comparable ED50-values. This assumption led to the selection 
of the human dose of 1 mg of HDC, producing maximum gastric acid secretion and tolerable adverse 
side effects. Twice-daily dosing was judged to be appropriate to allow safe and effective protection of 
NK-  cells  and  T-cells  and  yet,  not  compromise  the  innate  defence  against  infectious  agents  (See 
clinical efficacy supportive study AML-1). 
For  the  evaluation  of  HDC  in  conjunction  with  IL-2  as  immunomodulating  therapy  in  patients  with 
AML  in  remission,  a  dose  of  0.5  mg  HDC  was  chosen.  This  dose  was  tested  in  study  AML-1  and 
found to be acceptable for chronic outpatient administration in clinical practice. 
•  Main study 
Study MP-MA-0201 was conducted as a pivotal, confirmatory, clinical study in patients with AML. 
This  was  a  multicentre,  randomised,  open-label  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
subcutaneous histamine dihydrochloride plus IL-2 versus no treatment in patients with acute myeloid 
leukaemia in first or subsequent complete remission (CR)”. 
Methods 
Study participants 
This was a multicentre study conducted at 100 investigational sites in 10 countries. 
Main inclusion criteria were: 
- 
cytochemically-verified  AML  in  CR 1  (patients  in  first  remission)  or  CR 1+  (patients  post  first 
remission)  and  documentation  of  patient’s  remission  status  by  bone  marrow  examination  within 
28 days of randomisation 
age 18 years or older 
prior  induction  therapy  or  consolidation  therapy  as  per  standard  practice  at  the  institution, 
including autologous stem cell transplantation 
life expectancy of more than 3 months and able to comply with study requirements 
a WHO Performance Status of 0 – 1 or Karnofsky score of 70 or greater 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
- 
- 
- 
prior treatment with allogeneic stem cell transplant 
abnormal cardiac function 
presence of other active malignancies, except carcinoma in situ of the cervix, localised squamous 
or basal cell carcinoma of the skin 
presence  of  active  peptic  or  oesophageal  ulcer  disease  or  with  past  peptic  ulcer  or  oesophageal 
disease with a history of bleeding 
requiring treatment for hypotension 
history of asthma treated in previous 5 years 
currently  receiving  continuing  systemic  treatment  with  clonidine,  steroids  and/or  H2  receptor 
blocking agents 
history of hypersensitivity to histamine or histamine products, severe allergies to food or contrast 
media requiring treatment in the last 5 years 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Treatments 
The eligible patients were allocated to one of the two treatment arms: 
Page 29 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Combination  of  IL-2,  16,400  IU/kg  (1 µg/kg,  twice  daily)  was  first  administered  subcutaneously 
and 1-3 minutes after HDC 0.5 mg (twice daily) also subcutaneously over 5-15 minutes during a 
21-day  cycle.  For  Cycles 1-3,  each  cycle  is  followed  by  3 weeks  of  rest,  for  Cycles 4-10,  each 
cycle followed by 6 weeks of rest 
-  Standard of care: no active treatment/observation 
The absence of treatment in the control arm is justified, since no treatment is the standard of care and 
there is no evidence that IL-2 alone improves leukaemia-free survival (LFS). 
Treatment with HDC+IL-2 was started as soon as clinically feasible after completion of consolidation 
treatment  and  confirmation  of  complete  remission.  The  protocol  allowed  10  cycles  of  HDC+IL-2, 
approximately 18 months or until bone marrow relapse or death. 
Treatment  duration  was  chosen  to  maintain  a  protective  level  of  immuno-stimulation  during  the 
high-risk  phase  that  is  during  the  initial  18  months  post-consolidation  of  remission  when  > 85%  of 
relapses would be expected. 
Objectives 
The original objective was double: 
1. 
to  determine  if  active  treatment  could  prolong  leukaemia-free  survival  (LFS)  compared  to 
standard of care in patients in first remission 
to  determine  if  active  treatment  could  prolong  LFS  compared  to  standard  of  care  in  patients  in 
subsequent remission 
2. 
Due to poor recruitment of patients in subsequent remission the hypothesis was amended to determine 
if active treatment could prolong LFS compared to standard of care in patients in first or subsequent 
remission.  These  groups  have  different  prognosis  but  the  change  of  primary  objective  is  not 
problematic since randomisation was stratified based on first or subsequent remission. 
The  secondary  objectives  included  LFS  at  6,  12,  24  and  36  months  after  randomisation,  effects  of 
treatment on LFS of patients in CR 1 and CR 1+, overall survival, safety, toxicity and quality of life. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The duration of LFS was the primary endpoint. LFS was defined as the time elapsed from the date of 
randomisation  to  the  date  of  relapse  of  AML  or  death  from  any  cause.  The  widely  accepted  and 
clinically  relevant  laboratory  definition  of  remission  was  < 5%  blasts  in  bone  marrow  without 
extramedullary leukaemia, the standard goal in studies of leukaemia treatments. 
Secondary efficacy endpoint of this study included duration of overall survival was treated in the same 
manner  as  LFS,  Kaplan-Meier  estimates  of  proportion  of  patients  alive  and  relapse-free  at  specific 
timepoints and disease-free survival (DFS) in various prognostic groups of AML patients. In addition 
to these secondary endpoints, quality of life (QoL) was studied. 
Sample size 
The original statistical hypotheses were: 
1.  For a hypothesised improvement in median LFS of 50% in CR 1 patients in the combination group 
compared with control, a sample size of 96 patients with CR 1 in each treatment group reaching an 
evaluable  endpoint  within  the  36-month  follow-up  would  provide  a  statistical  power  of  80%  to 
detect the hypothesised difference between treatment groups with a type I error rate of 0.05. 
2.  For  a  hypothesised  improvement  in  median  LFS  of  75%  in  CR 1+  patients  in  the  combination 
group  compared  with  control,  a  sample  size  of  51  patients  with  CR 1+  in  each  treatment  group 
would  provide  a  statistical  power  of  80%  to  detect  the  hypothesised  difference  between  the 
treatment groups with a type I error rate of 0.05. 
The planned enrolment was 360 patients (240 in CR 1 and 120 in CR 1+), with equal distribution of 
each subset between the treatment arms. 
Page 30 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
Central randomisation and stratification based on country and CR 1 vs. CR 1+ was performed. 
Blinding (masking) 
This study was not blinded due to the fact that there would be clearly observable physiological effects 
during  HDC+IL-2  administration,  such  as  skin  flushing.  However,  sponsor  staff  and  CRO  data 
management were blinded to patient treatment. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  analysis  was  performed  using  the  log-rank  test,  stratified  by  country  and  CR  stratum 
(CR 1 or CR 1+). The primary analysis was performed on the ITT population defined as all patients 
who were randomised, regardless of protocol violations. Secondary analyses to explore the impact of 
prognostic factors were conducted using standard survival analysis methods. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Randomised 
(n=320) 
Assigned to HDC+IL-2 
(n=160) 
Assigned to standard care 
(n=160) 
Received treatment 
(n=157) 
Received treatment 
(n=159) 
Completed 2 treatment cycles 
(n=136) 
Completed 2 treatment cycles 
(n=121) 
Completed 10 treatment cycles 
(n=52) 
Completed 10 treatment cycles 
(n=47) 
84 
0 
Relapse 
Death 
Discontinuation 
15 
Toxicity/AE 
Consent withdrawal 
6 
Investigator discretion  0 
3 
Other 
84 
0 
Relapse 
Death 
Discontinuation 
0 
Toxicity/AE 
Consent withdrawal 
4 
Investigator discretion  1 
3 
Other 
Four patients (1 in the experimental arm, 3 controls) of the 320 patients dropped from the study 1, 7, 
11 and 34 days after randomisation. The reasons were: one consent withdrawal, one lost to follow-up, 
one recurrent haematologic illness and one not eligible due to thrombocytopenia. 
Recruitment 
In the accrual period from June 1998 to August 2000, a total of 320 patients were randomly assigned 
to 2 treatment arms, 160 in each treatment group. Date of last patient last visit was October 2004. A 
total of 91 centres and 1 consortium of 9 centres enrolled patients with the range of 0-17 patients per 
centre. 
Conduct of the study 
The  protocol  was  amended  on  four  occasions  a  brief  description  of  the  principal  changes  is  given 
below: 
- 
31st March 1998 – to make administrative changes, clarifications and minor changes e.g., a delay 
of one treatment cycle was allowed. 
27th August 1999 – to extend the allowed period from completion of induction therapy from 2 to 
3 months. 
- 
Page 31 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
6th  September  2000  –  change  of  time  of  analysis  from  12  months  from  last  CR 1+  patient  and 
18 months  from  last  CR 1  patient  to  24  months  after  last  patient  enrolled.  Removal  of  the 
proposed secondary analyses of relapse rates at 36 and 48 months. 
•  1st  November  2001  –  change  of  analysis  to  36  months  after  the  last  patient  enrolled.  Pooling  of 
CR 1+ and CR1 patients due to poor enrolment of CR 1+. The primary endpoint remains duration 
LFS. 
Thirty-eight  percent  (38%)  of  patients  in  the  HDC+IL-2  group  had  enrolment  deviations,  somewhat 
higher than the control group (31%). No patients failed to meet basic AML diagnostic or CR criteria. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and disease characteristics are displayed in Tables 12 and 13, respectively. 
Table 12 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Baseline demographic characteristics, ITT population 
Age (years) 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Age group (n [%]) 
≤ 60 
Race (n [%]) 
white 
black 
Asian 
other 
Sex n (%) 
men 
women 
Height (cm) 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Weight (kg) 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Performance status (n [%]) 
normal 
symptoms without significant decrease in daily activities 
HDC+IL-2 
N=160 
Control 
N=160 
55.0 (14.00) 
18.0, 81.0 
54.1 (14.26) 
18.0, 84.0 
94 (59) 
101 (63) 
153 (95.6) 
3 (1.9) 
3 (1.9) 
1 (0.6) 
86 (53.8) 
74 (46.3) 
149 (93.1) 
4 (2.5) 
2 (1.3) 
5 (3.1) 
86 (53.8) 
74 (46.3) 
170.9 (10.07) 
148.0, 200.7 
170.5 (9.84) 
150.0, 197.0 
77.2 
43.0, 122.0 
125 (78.1) 
35 (21.9) 
75.9 
43.0, 138.9 
114 (71.3) 
46 (28.8) 
Page 32 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Baseline disease characteristics, ITT population 
Days from AML diagnosis to randomisation 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
WBC at diagnosis (x109/l) 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
WBC category n (%) 
WBC > 20 x 109/l 
WBC > 100 x 109/l 
Number of courses to obtain current CR 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Total number of CR 
1 
2 
3 
> 3 
Marrow blast percentage (after first induction course for current remission)  
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Percentage blast cells 
≤ 15% 
> 15% 
FAB classification group 
M0/M1/M5/M6/M7 
M2/M3/M4 
not classifiable 
Karyotype at diagnosis, SWOG 
favourable 
intermediate 
unfavourable 
missing 
unknown 
Days from consolidation to randomisation 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Days from current CR to randomisation 
mean (SD) 
min, max 
Secondary AML 
yes 
Extramedullary leukaemia 
yes 
Autologous stem cell transplant 
yes 
High-dose cytarabine therapy 
yes 
HDC+IL-2 
N=160 
Control 
N=160 
306.2 (288.1) 
83.0, 1945 
350.7 (448.0) 
61.0, 2996 
32.1 (54.8) 
0.5, 426.0 
27.3 (51.7) 
0.4, 340.0 
62 (38.8) 
12 (7.5) 
1.2 (0.5) 
0.0, 4.0 
130 (81.3) 
27 (16.9) 
3 (1.9) 
0 (0.0) 
5.2 (11.0) 
0.0, 80.0 
149 (93) 
8 (5) 
59 (37) 
88 (55) 
12 (8) 
15 (9.4) 
76 (47.5) 
18 (11.3) 
39 (24.4) 
12 (7.5) 
48 (30.0) 
12 (7.5) 
1.3 (0.6) 
0.0, 4.0 
132 (82.5) 
21 (13.1) 
4 (2.5) 
2 (1.3) 
3.5 (5.7) 
0.0, 47.0 
149 (93) 
3 (2) 
56 (35) 
93 (58) 
10 (6) 
11 (6.9) 
75 (46.9) 
18 (11.3) 
45 (28.1) 
11 (6.9) 
75.4 (54.1) 
20.0, 545.0 
72.2 (46.9) 
14.0, 468.0 
149.9 (86.9) 
6.0, 727.0 
134.4 (74.0) 
4.0, 553.0 
16 (10.0) 
19 (11.9) 
15 (9.4) 
10 (6.3) 
22 (13.8) 
17 (10.6) 
107 (66.9) 
109 (69.0) 
FAB 
SWOG 
French-American-British classification of acute leukaemia 
SouthWestern Oncology Group 
Overall,  patients  in  the  2  treatment  groups  were  similar  with  respect  to  demographics  or  to  disease 
characteristics.  The  majority  of  patients  (83%  of  control  and  81%  of  the  HDC+IL-2  group)  were  in 
first  remission  or  CR 1  at  study  entry.  The  mean  number  of  induction/consolidation  treatments 
required to achieve the current remission was 1 (ranged from 0 to 4) for each treatment group. 
Similarly,  the  baseline  demographic  and  disease  characteristics  were  similar  when  the  study 
population is broken into patient with CR 1 or CR 1+. 
Page 33 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  of  all  efficacy  endpoints  was  conducted  using  the  ITT  population 
defined as all patients randomised (n = 320). 
Outcomes and estimation 
The primary efficacy and secondary analyses are summarised in Table 14 and in Figure 1. 
Table 14 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Leukaemia-free survival, ITT population 
Days of LFS by quartiles of patients (95% CI) 
Median 
LFS endpoint reached at time of analysis (n)
324 (266, 550) 
110 
264 (231, 341) 
126 
Proportion of patients with LFS at 6-month intervals: Kaplan-Meier estimates 
HDC+IL-2 
N=160 
Control 
N=160 
6 months 
12 months 
18 months 
24 months 
36 months 
67.5 
47.9 
42.9 
40.3 
34.0 
64.8 
41.5 
33.2 
28.8 
24.7 
a  Log-rank test stratified by country and CR stratum 
Figure 1 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Leukaemia-free survival, ITT population 
p-value 
0.0080a 
0.61 
0.25 
0.08 
0.03 
0.06 
Results of LFS for patients with CR 1 at baseline are presented in Table 15. Figure 2 displays LFS for 
patients  with  CR  1  or  CR 1+  at  baseline,  Figure 3  overall  survival  (OS)  for  the  entire  patient 
population and Figure 4 OS for patients with CR 1 at baseline. 
Page 34 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Leukaemia-free survival for patients with CR 1 at 
baseline, ITT population 
Days of LFS by quartiles of patients (95% CI) 
Median 
LFS endpoint reached at time of analysis (n)
450 (293, 974) 
103 
291 (232, 406) 
82 
Proportion of patients with LFS at 6-month intervals: Kaplan-Meier estimates 
HDC+IL-2 
N=129 
Control 
N=132 
6 months 
12 months 
18 months 
24 months 
36 months 
72. 
52.5 
47.8 
44.7 
39.9 
66.7 
43.9 
36.2 
31.6 
26.2 
a  Log-rank test stratified by country and CR stratum 
Figure 2 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Leukaemia-free survival, ITT population 
p-value 
0.0113a 
0.34 
0.17 
0.06 
0.03 
0.02 
Page 35 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Overall survival, ITT population 
Figure 4 
Study MP-MA-0201 – Overall survival for patients with CR 1 at baseline, 
ITT population 
In response to the Day 120 list of questions, the applicant provided results of analyses of Quality of 
Life (QoL). The EORTC QLQ-C30 was used to evaluate the patients’ QoL and was administered at 
baseline,  before  and  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  periods  of  Cycles  3,  6  and  8  and  at  the  study 
completion or at the early discontinuation visit. The QoL data analyses employed 7 scales for global 
QoL  and  personal  functioning  and  9  symptom  scores  which  all  showed  modest  differences  that  are 
consistent with the vasodilatory and immuno-inflammatory effects of HDC+IL-2. These analyses did 
not  show  clinically  relevant  loss  of  QoL  due  to  this  treatment  regimen.  Quality-of-life  in 
HDC+IL-2-treated  patients  was  maintained  at  levels  similar  to  that  of  control  patients  receiving 
standard of care. 
In  response  to  the  Day  180  list  of  outstanding  issues,  the  applicant  provided  results  of  a  sensitivity 
analysis censoring for deaths unrelated to AML relapse in the 261 patients with CR 1 using long-term 
follow-up data. Survival curve through 96 months showed a trend in favour of HDC+IL-2 over control 
(p = 0.090, stratified log rank test). At 5 years, the proportion of patients with CR 1 who died due to 
Page 36 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
AML  were  significantly  lower  in  the  group  who  received  HDC+IL-2  than  in  those  receiving  no 
maintenance therapy (p = 0.037, Kaplan-Meier). 
Ancillary analyses 
In  Study  MP-MA-0201,  there  appeared  to  be  an  association  between  age  60 years  or  less,  and 
treatment  effect  in  the  ITT  and  CR 1  populations.  The  log-rank  test  for  LFS  was  statistically 
significant  for  patients  up  to  60  years  of  age  (p = 0.02)  but  not  for  patients  older  than  60  years 
(p = 0.35). 
For the overall population in Study MP-MA-0201, a significantly worse hazard for LFS was shown 
for  men  than  for  women  (ratio  0.74,  p < 0.036).  Both  men  and  women  showed  benefit  from 
HDC+IL-2 treatment. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No analysis on pooled data from different studies or meta-analysis has been performed. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No study in special populations has been performed. 
•  Supportive study 
Study  AML-1  was  a  Phase  II,  non-randomised,  uncontrolled,  open-label,  exploratory  evaluation  of 
feasibility,  safety  and  efficacy  of  HDC+IL-2  to  prevent  relapse  in  patients  with  AML  in  remission. 
The  trial  was  conducted  between  February  1993  (first  patient  first  visit)  and  December  1999  (last 
patient last visit) in Sweden. This study is considered only supportive since the study design would not 
allow comparative analysis of efficacy. 
Objectives: The primary objective was to determine the efficacy of IL-2 with the addition of HDC to 
extend  the  duration  of  leukaemia-free  survival  in  patients  with  AML  in  remission.  Secondary 
objectives  were  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  the  combination  treatment  and  to  evaluate  feasibility  of 
self-administration at home of this treatment. 
Methods:  Eligible  patients  were  treated  with  IL-2  (1 μg/kg  s.c.,  twice  daily)  and  HDC  (0.3-0.7  mg 
[starting  dose]  s.c.,  twice  daily)  in  treatment  cycles  (3-week  treatment  plus  rest  periods  of  variable 
duration). Treatment cycles were given repeatedly for a duration of two years of complete remission or 
until relapse or death. Based on the medical status of the patient, individual adjustments of doses and 
duration of treatment and rest periods could be made. 
Eight patients received IL-2 as a single agent for the first immunotherapy course. Another cohort of 
30 patients  received  IL-2  as  a  single  agent  only  during  the  first  week  of  the  first  immunotherapy 
course. After the initial single drug IL-2 treatment, all patients were to receive the combination of IL-2 
and HDC. Chemotherapy (low dose chemotherapy with cytarabine and thioguanine between the initial 
courses of immunotherapy) was given to some patients in addition study drugs. 
Results: 39 patients were enrolled: 25 with CR 1 at baseline and 14 with CR 1+. A review of data by 
December 1999  showed  relapse  in  14  of  the  25  patients  with  CR 1  at  baseline  and  in  11  of  14 with 
CR 1+. Median leukaemia-free survival was 117 weeks for patients CR 1 at baseline and 49 weeks for 
patients CR 1+ at baseline. Leukaemia-free survival was in line with what has been reported for AML 
patients in the literature. Prognostic factors were overall not very favourable. The results of this initial 
study led to the development of the protocol for Study MP-MA-0201. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Study MP-MA-0201 showed a statistically significant difference in terms of LFS (p = 0.008, stratified 
log-rank test). For the CR 1 population, the difference in median survival was 159 days. Kaplan-Meier 
estimates  of  3-year  LFS  in  the  CR 1  population  were  26%  in  the  control  group  and  40%  in  the 
HDC+IL-2  group  (p = 0.02).  No  significant  differences  were  observed  in  the  CR 1+  population.  No 
significant differences were observed in terms of overall survival. 
Page 37 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  of  HDC  in  AML  is  entirely  dependent  on  Study  MP-MA-0201.  In 
order  that  a  single  study  may  form  the  basis  for  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  it  should  be 
adequately conducted and the results should be compelling. 
A SAG-Oncology was consulted to advise on matters relating to the clinical relevance of maintenance 
treatment in adult patients with AML after the first remission, and in this patient population, whether 
IL-2 alone could be considered as an effective maintenance treatment and whether an improvement in 
LFS would represent a meaningful clinical benefit. In addition, the SAG-Oncology was asked to give 
its  viewpoint  on  whether  the  non-clinical  and  clinical  data 
  demonstrated  that  histamine 
enhances/protects the activity of IL-2 and whether it would be feasible to perform further studies that 
seek to establish the effect size of histamine and IL-2 respectively in AML. 
-  The SAG-Oncology stated that  there  was no established  maintenance treatment in adult patients 
with AML after first remission with the exception of ongoing investigational studies.  
-  There is no proof supporting that IL-2 alone is an effective maintenance treatment in adult patients 
with AML after the first remission. Several clinical studies, in general with a small sample size, 
have been conducted and none have demonstrated a benefit of IL-2 alone in this setting. However, 
there  are  larger,  trials  investigating  this  question  and  it  should  be  noted  that  these  studies  have 
used varied dosing and schedules. 
-  LFS is an important clinical benefit endpoint, especially, for a patient population over 65 years of 
age.  If  LFS  is  the  primary  endpoint,  overall  survival  should  be  a  secondary  endpoint  and  the 
clinical study must have sufficient evidence to allow concluding that overall survival is unlikely to 
be adversely affected by the treatment. 
-  The  data  provided  do  not  demonstrate  unequivocally  that  histamine  enhances  or  protects  the 
activity of IL-2. The proposed mechanism of action of histamine in this combination is plausible. 
The effect and the efficacy of histamine are supported with sparse data from very few non clinical 
experiments  and the results of the clinical trials included in this application. The opinion on the 
robustness of the efficacy data presented diverged between participants at SAG-Oncology. Some 
were of the opinion that the single pivotal trial did not provide convincing evidence due to marked 
heterogeneity  between  participating  centres/countries,  insufficient  support  of  pharmacological 
rationale, non-clinical data provided, absence of proof of concept in eradication minimal residual 
disease and finally the negative outcome of the clinical trials with HDC+IL2 in other indications 
questioned the validity of the rationale. Others considered that the biological rationale was sound 
and  although  the  individual  effects  of  the  combination  could  not  be  delineated,  the  combination 
showed  efficacy  using  a  clinically  relevant  endpoint  and  given  the  unmet  medical  need  and  the 
manageable  toxicity  of  the  combination,  the  benefits  were  considered  important,  even  in  the 
absence of extensive supportive data. The negative results in solid tumours should not detract from 
the clinically relevant and statistically compelling results observed in AML based on good quality 
data confirmed by a GCP inspection. 
-  Many  but  not  all  SAG-Oncology  members  were  of  the  opinion  that  a  clinical  study  aiming  at 
establishing  the  effect  size  of  the  combination  histamine  and  IL-2  in  treatment  in  adult  patients 
with  AML  after  the  first  remission  could  be  performed  and  desirable.  Others  expressed  the 
concern  that  the  formal  positive  outcome  for  the  primary  endpoint  is  an  issue  because  AML 
patients in this situation might be deprived of a potentially efficacious therapy for some years until 
further data might become available  and further supportive clinical data  could be acquired post-
authorisation. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Patients  suffering  from  AML  in  first  or  subsequent  remission  and  from  metastatic  melanoma  (MM) 
constitute  the  main  patient  populations  in  the  clinical  development  programme.  In  addition,  smaller 
studies  were  conducted  in  renal  cell  carcinoma  and  hepatitis  C.  A  total  of  patients  of  1,188  were 
treated with HDC and 689 control patients (not exposed to HDC) were part in the clinical development 
programme (Table 16). 
Page 38 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16 
Safety data set – Patient exposure 
Phase II and III 
n = 1188 
MM+AML 
HDC+IL-2 
n = 622 
MM 
HDC 1.0 mg + IL-2 
n = 426 
AML 
HDC 0.5 mg + IL-2
n = 196 
Total dose exposure of HDC (mg) 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min-Max 
Total exposure to HDC in days 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min-Max 
172.4 (170.44) 
120 
0-1322 
117.7 (106.58) 
82.0 
2-994 
115.1 (119.02) 
80.0 
2-994 
101 (91.46) 
64 
0-661 
78.6 (70.94) 
50.5 
1-497 
57.6 (59.51) 
40.0 
1-497 
123.2 (72.48) 
106.0 
8-294 
124.4 (72.33) 
108.5 
8-308 
Adverse events 
The baseline demographic and disease characteristics of the patients with AML included in the safety 
database are similar to those of the patients of Study MP-MA-0201 (Table 12 and 13). Table 17 gives 
an overview of adverse events in patient with AML. 
Table 17 
All Treated Patients in AML studies - Overview of adverse events 
Number of patients with adverse event 
Number of patients with a related adverse event  
Number of patients with a severe or life-threatening adverse event 
Number of patients with a serious adverse event 
Number of patients with a AE associated with discontinuation of study drugs
Number of patients with a AE associated with death 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
195 (> 99) 
193 (98) 
91 (46) 
47 (24) 
59 (30) 
3 (2) 
Standard of care
n = 147 
140 (95) 
0 
64 (44) 
32 (21.8) 
1 (< 1) 
3 (2) 
The  treatment-emergent  adverse  event  (AE)  which  occurred  in  5%  or  more  of  the  patients  in  the 
Standard of Care versus the HDC 0.5 mg + IL-2 groups of patients are displayed in Table 18 below. 
Table 18 
All Treated Patients in AML studies - Summary of treatment-emergent adverse 
events in ≥ 5% patients 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia NOS 
Eosinophilia 
Neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Cardiac disorders 
Palpitations 
Tachycardia NOS 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Abdominal pain NOS 
Abdominal pain upper 
Diarrhoea NOS 
Dry mouth 
Dyspepsia 
Nausea 
Vomiting NOS 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
Standard of care
n = 147 
12 (6) 
34 (17) 
11 (6) 
38 (19) 
18 (9) 
23 (12) 
12 (6) 
14 (7) 
33 (17) 
11 (6) 
27 (14) 
58 (30) 
29 (15) 
5 (3) 
0 
4 (3) 
13 (9) 
3 (2) 
2 (1) 
6 (4) 
6 (4) 
15 (10) 
0 
5 (3) 
14 (10) 
6 (4) 
Page 39 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
Standard of care
n = 147 
Chest pain 
Fatigue 
Feeling hot 
Influenza like illness 
Injection site bruising 
Injection site erythema 
Injection site granuloma 
Injection site inflammation 
Injection site pain 
Injection site pruritus 
Injection site rash 
Injection site reaction NOS 
Injection site swelling 
Injection site urticaria 
Oedema peripheral 
Pain NOS 
Pyrexia 
Rigors 
Weakness 
Infections and infestations 
Herpes zoster 
Influenza 
Nasopharyngitis 
Sinusitis NOS 
Upper respiratory tract infection NOS 
Investigations 
Platelet count decreased 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Anorexia 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Myalgia 
Pain in limb 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps) 
Leukaemia relapse [1] 
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Headache NOS 
Psychiatric disorders 
Anxiety 
Depression 
Insomnia 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cough 
Dyspnoea NOS 
Nasal congestion 
Pharyngitis 
Rhinorrhoea 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Erythema 
Night sweats 
Pruritus NOS 
Rash NOS 
Skin lesion NOS 
Sweating increased 
Page 40 of 54 
16 (8) 
85 (43) 
22 (11) 
31 (16) 
18 (9) 
69 (35) 
79 (40) 
25 (13) 
25 (13) 
39 (20) 
14 (7) 
42 (21) 
13 (7) 
17 (9) 
11 (6) 
13 (7) 
82 (42) 
30 (15) 
14 (7) 
11 (6) 
10 (5) 
4 (21) 
13 (7) 
24 (12) 
9 (5) 
16 (8) 
43 (22) 
2 (12) 
36 (18) 
20 (10) 
52 (27) 
45 (23) 
25 (13) 
112 (57) 
11 (6) 
15 (8) 
20 (10) 
49 (25) 
28 (14) 
21 (11) 
26 (13) 
11 (6) 
17 (9) 
11 (6) 
16 (8) 
26 (13) 
5 (3) 
20 (10) 
9 (6) 
22 (15) 
0 
6 (4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
7 (5) 
2 (1) 
22 (15) 
0 
9 (6) 
9 (6) 
10 (7) 
23 (16) 
9 (6) 
22 (15) 
8 (5) 
4 (3) 
20 (14) 
15 (10) 
3 (2) 
11 (8) 
77 (52) 
12 (8) 
0 
20 (14) 
15 (10) 
5 (3) 
8 (5) 
18 (12) 
5 (3) 
2 (1) 
21 (14) 
3 (2) 
3 (2) 
6 (4) 
5 (3) 
7 (5) 
9 (6) 
2 (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vascular disorders 
Flushing 
Hypotension NOS 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
Standard of care
n = 147 
159 (81) 
24 (12) 
0 
4 (3) 
1  Leukaemia relapse was considered to be efficacy endpoints; investigators did not consistently report these as AE and 
assessments of efficacy of HDC were not appropriately based on these datasets 
The Grade 3/4 treatment-emergent AE that occurred in at least 1% of the patients in the AML studies 
are presented in Table 19. 
Table 19 
All Treated Patients in AML studies - Grade 3/4 treatment-emergent adverse 
events in ≥ 1% patients 
Number of patients who had at least 1 Grade 3/4 AE 
Leukaemia relapse [1] 
Thrombocytopenia 
Headache 
Neutropenia 
Pyrexia 
Platelet count decreased 
Diarrhoea 
Influenza like illness 
Eosinophilia 
Injection site granuloma 
Arthralgia 
White blood cell count increased 
Fatigue 
Liver function tests NOS abnormal 
Back pain 
Injection site pain 
Injection site pruritis 
Weakness 
Dizziness 
Dysgeusia 
Flushing 
Nausea 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Febrile neutropenia 
Cardiac congestive failure 
White blood cell count decreased 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2
n = 196 
91 (46) 
26 (13) 
19 (10) 
13 (7) 
5 (3) 
4 (2) 
4 (2) 
4 (2) 
4 (2) 
3 (2) 
3 (2) 
3 (2) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
1 (< 1) 
0 
0 
Standard of care 
n = 147 
64 (44) 
40 (27) 
3 (2) 
0 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3 (2) 
2 (1) 
1 (< 1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
2 (1) 
[1]  Leukaemia relapse was considered to be efficacy endpoints; investigators did not consistently report these as AE 
and assessments of efficacy of HDC were not appropriately based on these datasets 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths which occurred in the clinical development programme while the patients were in the study or 
within 28 days of the last dose of study drug are reported in Table 20. 
Page 41 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20 
Phase II and III studies - Summary of deaths 
HDC [1] 
n = 1188 
Number Cause of death 
AML 
MP-MA-0201 
AML1 
MP-8899-0104 
MP-US-M01 
4 
None 
16 
12 
1 
1 
Melanoma 
Melanoma 
Cardiopulmonary arrest 
Unknown 
MM2 
I-318-MA 
MP-MA-0102 
MP-MA-0103 
Melanoma 
Melanoma 
Pneumonia 
Melanoma 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Pneumonia 
Unknown 
Metastatic melanoma 
1  Studies MP-S02 and MP-S04 conducted in renal cell carcinoma are not included 
12 
14 
1 
8 
1 
1 
1 
4 
None 
None 
None 
None 
MP-MA-0405 
MP-S01 
Non-HDC [1] 
n = 689 
Number Cause of death 
AML 
1 
None 
18 
11 
1 
2 
1 
2 
11 
None 
Melanoma 
Melanoma 
Myocardial infarcts/cerebral infarcts 
Liver failure 
Pulmonary embolus 
Study drug 
Melanoma 
Serious adverse events which were experienced by at least 3 patients in either treatment group in AML 
studies are presented in Table 21. 
Table 21 
All Treated Patients in AML studies - Serious adverse events experienced by at 
least 3 patients 
Febrile neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Number of patients with at least 1 SAE 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Standard of care 
n = 147 
32 (21.8) 
8 (5.4) 
2 (1.4) 
3 (2.0) 
4 (2.7) 
6 (4.1) 
5 (3.4) 
5 (3.4) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.7) 
0 (0.0) 
13 (8.8) 
10 (6.8) 
1  Leukaemia relapse was considered to be efficacy endpoints; investigators did not consistently report these as AE and 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
47 (24.0) 
13 (6.6) 
3 (1.5) 
8 (4.1) 
4 (2.0) 
10 (5.1) 
8 (4.1) 
10 (5.1) 
4 (2.0) 
7 (3.6) 
4 (2.0) 
17 (8.7) 
13 (6.6) 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps) 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia NOS 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Leukaemia relapse [1] 
Back pain 
Pyrexia 
assessments of efficacy of HDC were not appropriately based on these datasets 
•  Laboratory findings 
The  Grade  3  and  4  NCI  post-baseline  toxicities  for  selected  haematology  and  chemistry  laboratory 
tests for AML studies are presented in Table 22. 
Page 42 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 
All Treated Patients in AML studies - Grade 3/4 toxicities – selected haematology 
and chemistry laboratory tests 
Haemoglobin 
WBC count 
Lymphocytes count 
Platelet count 
Alkaline phosphatase 
Creatinine 
SGOT (AST) 
Total bilirubin 
HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2 
n = 196 
13 (7) 
30 (17) 
13 (9) 
39 (23) 
0 
1 (< 1) 
5 (2) 
0 
Standard of care 
n = 147 
6 (4) 
22 (17) 
10 (11) 
32 (27) 
0 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
•  Safety in special populations 
Age 
Overall,  there  was  no  major  clinical  differences  between  the  incidences  of  AE  in  patients  < 65  and 
≥ 65 years of age in any of treatments (IL-2 alone, HDC+IL-2, HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2, HDC 1 mg+IL-2 or 
standard care) or when comparing across the treatments. 
Gender 
It  did  not  appear  to  be  any  consistent  relationship  between  the  patient  gender  and  the  treatment 
administered  (IL-2  alone,  HDC+IL-2,  HDC 0.5 mg+IL-2,  HDC 1 mg+IL-2  or  standard  care)  for 
almost all of the AE in which there was a difference of at least 5% between male and female patients. 
However,  difference  between  males  and  females  for  headache  NOS,  nasal  congestions,  hypotension 
NOS and injection site erythema appeared to be consistent across the different treatment administered. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Study MP-MA-0503  was 
pharmacokinetics). 
the  only  drug 
interaction  study  conducted 
(see  section  on 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The most frequently experienced AE that led to premature discontinuation of study drugs in patients in 
the AML studies were thrombocytopenia, platelet count decreased, neutropenia and pyrexia. 
•  Post-marketing experience 
HDC has not been approved or marketed in any country. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
A total 196 patients with AML have been exposed to HDC and IL-2 combination treatment, the size of 
this safety dataset is considered acceptable. Almost all patients received 0.5 mg of HDC. 
The  most  common  adverse  drug  reactions  induced  by  the  addition  of  HDC  to  IL-2  are  flushing, 
hypotension, headache and injection site reactions, as identified in studies malignant melanoma where 
the comparison with IL-2 alone was possible. 
Despite  the  higher  rate  of  side  effects  in  the  experimental  arm  (33  vs.  17%)  and  the  treatment 
constraints, the proposed treatment regimen does not appear to impact negatively on the quality of life 
of patients. 
Very  few  deaths  were  reported  during  the  treatment  period  or  shortly  after  in  the  AML  studies.  All 
cases were attributed to the underlying disease and not related to study medication (1 death vs. 4 in the 
control and combination arms, respectively). The proportion of patients with SAE is slightly higher in 
the  HDC+IL-2-treated  patient  group,  24.0  vs.  21.8%.  Thrombocytopenia,  infections  and  back  pain 
were causes that were increased in this group. 
The  defence  against  infectious  agents  may  be  affected  by  HDC  due  to  the  phagocyte  inactivation. 
Considering the overall treatment duration (18 months) and the therapy affecting the immune system it 
Page 43 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
could be postulated an increased risk of infection, as shown by the slightly increased number of SAE 
with infection as cause. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance activities  
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities   
Hypotensive episodes 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Vasodilation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Increased gastric acid secretion 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Local injection site reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Method of 
Administration 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Haematological Events (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia/eosinophilia) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Page 44 of 54 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
clinical complications due to 
hypotension or hypovolemia 
(SPC section 4.2, 4.4). 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
clinical complications due to 
vasodilation (SPC section 4.2, 
4.4). 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
clinical complications due to 
increased gastric acid secretion 
(SPC section 4.4). 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
clinical complications due to 
local injection site reactions 
(SPC section 4.8). 
Detailed information on method 
of administration including 
administration rate, location and 
time between subsequent 
administrations as well as 
potential risk for hypotensive 
episode are provided (SPC 
section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 4.9). 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
clinical complications such as 
neutropenia, febrile 
neutropenia, and sepsis (SPC 
section 4.2, 4.4). 
The following information is 
provided in the SPC section 4.4, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Monitoring of laboratory test 
results is recommended 
including standard 
haematological and blood 
chemistry tests.”. In the PL, 
patients are  informed that 
blood tests will be performed 
during treatment. Patients 
should be monitored during 
treatment, monitoring of 
laboratory test results is 
recommended including 
standard haematological and 
blood chemistry tests 
Patients should be monitored 
during treatment for possible 
interactions which are detailed 
in the SmPC and are 
appropriately addressed in the 
PL. “Patients receiving the 
following medicinal products 
should be treated with caution 
(see section 4.5): Beta-blockers 
or other anti-hypertensive 
agents; H1 blocking agents and 
neuroleptics (anti-psychotics) 
with H1 receptor blocking 
properties; -Tricyclic 
antidepressants that may have 
H1 and H2 receptor blocking 
properties; -Monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors and anti-
malarial and antitrypanosomal 
agents; -Neuromuscular 
blocking agents, narcotic 
analgesics, and various contrast 
media.” (SmPC section 4.4) 
There have been no specific 
studies on the effects of alcohol 
with IL-2+HDC treatments 
(SPC) 
Patients with cardiac disease 
should be evaluated for VEFand 
wall function by 
echocardiography or nuclear 
medicine stress test  and then 
treated with caution (see SPC 
section 4.4) 
Patients with hepatic or renal 
impairment should be 
monitored during treatment for 
possible clinical complications 
as these patient populations 
have a disease which may itself 
affect drug metabolism or 
excretion (see SPC sections 4.4 
and 5.2) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Interactions with other medicines 
(e.g. antihypertensive medicines, 
H1 
and H2 blockers, tricyclic 
antidepressants, neuroleptics, 
histamine releasing medicines) 
Patients with cardiac disorders 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Patients with hepatic or renal 
Impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Page 45 of 54 
Paediatric population data 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Pregnancy and Lactation data 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Ceplene has not been evaluated 
in the paediatric population 
(SPC section 4.1 and 4.2) 
No clinical data are available in 
pregnant women or on the 
effects on fertility and that it is 
not known if HDC is excreted 
in human breast milk. Due to 
the fact that Ceplene is to be 
administered in conjunction 
with IL-2, Ceplene must not be 
administered during pregnancy 
(SPC section 4.6, 5.2, 5.3).  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  the  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects 
relevant to the consistent clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled 
in  a  satisfactory  way.  There  are  no  unresolved  quality  issues,  which  have  a  negative  impact  on  the 
Benefit:Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pharmacodynamic  data  are  mainly  based  on  bibliographic  references.  The  effect  on  acute  myeloid 
leukaemia (AML) is based on in vitro studies. Although there is a plausible scientific rationale for the 
efficacy  of  histamine  dihydrochloride  (HDC)  in  combination  with  interleukin  (IL-2),  a  definite 
conclusion cannot be made on the basis of the non-clinical information. 
The  proprietary  pharmacokinetic  studies  conducted  were  limited.  Data  showed  similarities  in  the 
pharmacokinetic profile of histamine across the species studied (rats, rabbits, dogs, humans). 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeated-dose 
toxicity, local tolerance and genotoxicity. The toxicity associated with the use of HDC was related to 
exaggerated  pharmacological  responses  in  the  species  studied  (rats,  dogs,  rabbits  and  monkeys)  and 
were observed at exposures in excess of the maximum human exposure. 
Histamine dihydrochloride is not considered to have any adverse effects on reproduction. The effects 
observed during the reproduction studies were similar to those noted during the toxicity repeat dose 
studies.  Although  doses  were,  in  some  cases,  maternally  toxic,  this  did  not  have  any  effects  on  the 
embryo and foetus. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  the  combination  treatment  of  HDC  and  interleukin-2  (IL-2)  was  investigated  in  one 
pivotal study (Study MP-MA-0201) and showed in the ITT population that combination HDC+IL-2 
resulted  in  a  statistically  significant  increase  of  leukaemia-free  survival  (LFS).  The  effect  was 
observed only in the population in first remission. In the subset of patients in CR 1, median LFS was 
increased by 22.7 weeks (p = 0.0113, stratified log-rank test) and LFS at 36 months was almost 40% 
in  patients  treated  with  the  combination  compared  with  26%  in  the  control  group  (p = 0.02).  The 
applicant has suggested an indication accordingly. 
Page 46 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  initially  concluded  that  statistical  significance  of  the  outcome  observed  for  the  pivotal 
study  on  maintenance  treatment  with  HDC+IL-2  cannot  be  considered  statistically  compelling.  The 
clinical efficacy cannot be considered as established. 
Safety 
The safety profile of HDC combines common adverse  drug reactions such as flushing, hypotension, 
headache  and  injection  site  reactions  and  a  slightly  increase  rate  of  serious  adverse  events  for 
thrombocytopenia,  infections  and  back  pain  compared  with  the  observational  arm.  However,  the 
proposed  treatment  regimen  does  not  impact  negatively  on  Quality  of  Life  of  the  treated  patients, 
despite a treatment of 18-month duration with twice daily administrations during 3 weeks, followed by 
resting periods of 3 and then 6 weeks. 
User consultation 
The  Patient  Information  Leaflet  (PIL)  for  Ceplene  (histamine  dihydrochloride)  has  been  tested  in 
English  in  accordance  with  Articles  59(3)  and  61(1)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  by 
Directive 2004/27/EC. The PIL for Ceplene (histamine dihydrochloride) was found to contain all the 
necessary information in a way that is accessible and understandable to those who participated in this 
test. 
It is considered that the tested PIL meets the requirements set for User Testing. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The demonstration of the efficacy of HDC in combination with IL-2 for preventing or delaying relapse 
in  AML  relies  on  one  single  pivotal  Phase III  study  (Study  MP-MA-0201).  The  combination 
demonstrated a statistically significant increase in LFS over a 36-month observation period in patients 
with  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  in  remission.  A  subgroup  analysis  showed  that  the  effect  was  only 
observed in the population of patients in first remission. 
The  contribution  in  the  treatment  effect  of  each  individual  drug  has  been  evaluated  neither  in 
non-clinical nor in clinical study in the claimed indication. This has been seen as a major deficiency in 
the drug development. 
The safety data of the combination treatment were not of major concern. 
The  applicant  was  invited  to  present  an  oral  explanation  to  the  CHMP  to  address  the  outstanding 
issues. In summary, the applicant argued that: 
-  There  are  several  peer  reviewed  articles  supporting  the  rationale  of  mechanism  of  action  of 
HDC+IL-2 
-  Five randomised trials (n = 899) did not show a benefit of IL-2 alone (wide range of doses and 
schedules) for preventing the first relapse in AML patients 
-  LFS is a reliable marker to assess remission, commonly used in similar trials 
- 
In  Study  MP-MA-0201,  LFS  was  significantly  prolonged  in  the  combination  treatment  arm 
compared  with  the  control  arm  and  extensive  sensitivity  analyses  confirmed  that  were  not 
confounding prognostic factors 
-  The  Study  MP-MA-0201  was  not  designed  for  concluding  statistically  on  overall  survival, 
however in the population of the claimed indication the overall survival is prolonged 
-  Negative  study  results  in  other  indication  are  explainable  by  the  higher  of  tumour  burden  of 
metastatic cancer compared with AML after the first complete remission. 
Having considered the arguments and justifications presented by the applicant and the advice from the 
SAG-Oncology, the CHMP considered that the benefit risk of histamine dihydrochloride administered 
in  conjunction  with  interleukin-2  for  maintenance  of  remission  in  adult  patients  with  acute  myeloid 
leukaemia in first remission was not considered favourable due to the following grounds. 
Page 47 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application is dependent on one single pivotal study. This study, Study MP-MA-0201, cannot be 
considered to meet the requirements for approval with a single pivotal study according to the CHMP 
points to consider CPMP/EWP/2330/99 for the following reasons: 
-  The requirement of statistically compelling results is not fulfilled 
-  Supportive clinical data for efficacy are very limited and consist of a Phase II study evaluating in 
39 patients  with  AML  in  remission,  feasibility,  safety  and  efficacy  of  HDC+IL-2  to  prevent 
relapse 
-  The pharmacological rationale is weak in particular concerning the use of the combination and the 
supporting non-clinical data are not considered to be sufficient. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Ceplene  administered  in  conjunction  with  interleukin-2,  for 
maintenance of remission in adult patients with acute myeloid leukaemia in first remission to prolong 
the  duration  of  leukaemia-free  survival,  was  unfavourable  and  therefore  did  not  recommend  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation in the first instance. 
2.7 
Re-examination of the CHMP opinion of 19 March 2008 
Following  the  CHMP  Opinion  concluding  that  the  benefit  risk  of  histamine  dihydrochloride 
administered  in  conjunction  with  interleukin-2  for  maintenance  of  remission  in  adult  patients  with 
acute  myeloid  leukaemia  in  first  remission  was  not  considered  favourable,  the  applicant  submitted 
detailed grounds for the re-examination of the grounds for refusal.  
Detailed grounds for re-examination submitted by the applicant 
The Applicant argued that data presented in the original application satisfactorily address each of the 
grounds for refusal raised by the CHMP and that the assessment should take into account the unmet 
the  use  of  Ceplene/IL-2 
medical  need, 
immunotherapy, the claimed clinical benefits supported by robust and clinically meaningful data set, 
the acceptable safety profile and patient convenience 
the  sound  pharmacological 
rationale  supporting 
Concerning the requirement of statistically compelling results, the Applicant argued that the results of 
the pivotal Phase III 0201 of Ceplene/IL-2 treatment for remission maintenance in AML patients are 
scientifically  valid,  internally  consistent,  and  robust.    These  characteristics,  combined  with  the  clear 
demonstration of clinical benefit on leukaemia-free survival in the target population, and viewed in the 
context of an orphan treatment for a poor prognosis disease, can be considered statistically as well as 
clinically compelling. The applicant also submitted the opinion of expert European biostatisticians to 
support its argumentation.  
The applicant disagreed that supportive clinical data for efficacy are very limited and argued  that the 
totality  of  data  collected  during  the  clinical  development  program  of  Ceplene  and  previously 
submitted in the Ceplene MAA is sufficient to demonstrate the safety, efficacy, and positive benefit-
to-risk balance of this therapy for prevention of relapse in AML patients. According to the applicant, 
the  published  peer-reviewed  preclinical  and  clinical  pharmacodynamic  data  reviewed  provide 
compelling  evidence,  and  concluded  that  this  evidence  unequivocally  supports  the  pharmacological 
rationale for the use of Ceplene/IL-2 in AML. The applicant has reviewed 5 clinical trials investigating 
different  doses  of  IL-2  in  patients  with  AML  and  concluded  that  these  trials  have  not  shown 
significant  clinical  efficacy  of  IL-2  treatment  as  monotherapy  at  doses  ranging  between  25  and  91 
MIU/m2/month. 
Concerning the pharmacological rationale, the applicant reviewed and discussed the role of T cells and 
natural killer (NK) cells in eradicating leukaemic cells in AML patients, the rationale and results for 
IL-2  in  AML,  the  mechanisms  of  T  and  NK  cell  inactivation  and  their  implications  for  IL-2 
immunotherapy  in  AML,  the  rationale  and  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  basis  for  improving  IL-2 
efficacy  with  HDC,  as  well  as  the  clinical  pharmacodynamic  effect  of    HDC  in  improving  IL-2-
induced  immunoactivation.  The  applicant  also  reviewed  the  likely  mechanism  of  action  of  HDC  by 
Page 48 of 54 
 
 
 
 
overcoming  cancer-related  immunosuppression  or  immunosuppression  in  AML  (in  terms  of 
dysfunctional T and NK cells recovered from AML patients) respectively based on in vitro or ex vivo 
data.  
Report from the CHMP Scientific Advisory Group in Oncology 
Following the request from the applicant, as agreed by the CHMP, a Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) 
meeting has been convened on 10 July 2008 to provide comments on the grounds for negative opinion 
and advice on the list of questions raised by the CHMP and adopted at the June 2008 CHMP meeting. 
The SAG considered the CHMP grounds for refusal and agreed that the statistical significance of the 
log-rank test was convincing from a purely statistical perspective, but also concurred that there were 
only very little supportive clinical data, and that the pharmacological rationale, although plausible, was 
adding little to the clinical data. The SAG also agreed that the toxicity of the combination regimen was  
in  itself  manageable  and  not  unacceptable  in  absolute  terms,  if  clear  evidence  of  efficacy  could  be 
established. 
However,  when  judging  the  evidence  of  efficacy,  two  opposing  views  emerged.  According  to  one 
view,  the  efficacy  has  been  clearly  established,  and  the  clinical  trial  provided  sufficient  evidence  to 
establish a positive benefit-risk in the target population. Since such an assessment is based on a single 
pivotal-trial,  the  evidence  of  efficacy  is  not  overwhelming.  However  the  large  effect  in  terms  of  a 
relevant  clinical  endpoint,  the  lack  of  alternative  established  maintenance  treatments  and  the 
acceptable  toxicity  profile  were  considered  together  as  sufficient  to  establish  an  adequate  level  of 
efficacy of the combination of histamine+IL2. According to this view, although there are a number of 
issues  that  could  be  further  clarified,  the  efficacy  has  been  clearly  demonstrated  in  the  target 
population.  The  heterogeneity  of  the  randomized  study  was  considered  to  be  no  greater  than  in  any 
other large AML study. Furthermore, it is a regular finding in every unselected AML study that one 
cannot classify in terms of risk a fair proportion of AML patients due to failed cytogenetics (i.e., no 
metaphases). It was also acknowledged that , subgroup analysis is of course of interest but cannot be 
required  for  registration  if  a  predefined  clinical  relevant  endpoint  on  the  total  population  is  met. 
However,  the  efficacy  should  be  further  characterised  in  subgroups  of  poor  prognosis  patients  (e.g., 
patients >60 years old), e.g., through adequate studies, if necessary post-approval. 
According  to  the  opposing  view,  the  efficacy  cannot  be  considered  established.  The  trial  included  a 
heterogeneous population in terms of known and unknown prognostic factors. Although the applicant 
showed that concerning known prognostic factors no important imbalances were apparent, reliable risk 
classification based on cytogenetics could only be determined in 69% of the patients due to missing 
data.  Thus,  important  heterogeneity  in  the  population  recruited  and  imbalances  between  treatment 
arms cannot be excluded. The poor performance of the observation arm might indeed be due to such 
an imbalance. Given the lack of a second confirmatory trial, the problematic experience with similar 
immunotherapies, the lack of other clinical efficacy and pharmacological supportive data, there remain 
fundamental  doubts  about  the  efficacy  of  the  combination  and  this  could  only  be  resolved  with  the 
conduct of a randomized clinical trial of similar design, designed and conducted according to state of 
the art standards in the treatment of AML. 
The  SAG  agreed  that  historical  comparisons  are  very  difficult  to  interpret  and  can  be  in  fact 
misleading.  Historical  comparisons  cannot  be  used  to  conclude  or  even  speculate  on  whether  there 
exist  or  not  any  differences  between  histamine  dihydrochloride+  IL-2,  compared  to  IL-2  alone.  The 
SAG considered that the more relevant question is rather concerning the effect of the combination of 
histamine  dihydrochloride+IL-2  versus  observation.  Indeed,  there  is  a  catalogue  of  questions  that 
could be of academic interest, trying to determine exactly the contributions of all the components of 
the  combination,  optimising  the  doses  of  the  two  agents,  etc.,  but  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  all  such 
answers could be obtained in a rare disease setting such as the maintenance treatment of AML. Given 
the  large  unmet  medical  need,  a  reasonable  combination  regimen  with  convincing  evidence  of 
adequate efficacy and safety would be of clear clinical usefulness in this disease setting, despite the 
unknown contribution of the individual agents.  According to one view, the fact that other trials using 
higher doses of IL2 were negative and/or too toxic was viewed as indirect evidence of the contribution 
of histamine to the combination. According to other members the single pivotal trial using IL-2 plus 
histamine should be considered as one positive trial amongst five negative trials using IL-2 as single 
agent. 
Page 49 of 54 
The  SAG  had  divergent  views  on  the  need  for  a  second  randomized  controlled  trial  to  establish  the 
benefit of the combination (see SAG comments on  the CHMP grounds for refusal). There were two 
views  concerning  the  feasibility  of  such  a  study.  One  view  suggested  that  a  second  randomized 
controlled  trial  study  should  indeed  be  conducted  according  to  state  of  the  art  standards,  including 
stratification  for  known  prognostic  factors  such  as  age,  WBC  count  at  diagnosis,  cytogenetics  and 
molecular  markers  (flt-3  mutation,  MLL  partial  tandem  duplication),  in  order  to  allow  proper 
assessment  of  the  efficacy  and  adjustment  for  important  prognostic  factors.  The  opposite  view 
maintained  that  the  efficacy  was  not  in  question  and  that  no  second  randomized  controlled  trial  is 
necessary or even feasible. Any outstanding uncertainties about subgroups where the efficacy has been 
less  convincingly  shown  (e.g.,  patients  >60  years  old)  should  be  addressed  as  post-authorisation 
commitments (see SAG comments on the CHMP grounds for refusal). 
Overall conclusion on grounds for re-examination  
The CHMP assessed all the detailed grounds for re-examination and argumentations presented by the 
applicant and considered the views of the Scientific Advisory Group.  
The  CHMP  considered  all  the  new  evidence  submitted  by  the  applicant  and  the  argumentation  put 
forward by the applicant and the SAG experts. The CHMP considered that the benefit-risk balance for 
the combination of Ceplene plus IL-2 was positive. The CHMP agreed that despite its limitations in 
terms  of  design,  the  results  of  study  MP-MA-0201,  can  be  considered  to  meet  the  requirements  for 
approval with a single pivotal study according to the CHMP points to consider CPMP/EWP/2330/99, 
i.e., that the pivotal study can be considered as exceptionally compelling particularly due to the high 
quality of the conduct of the study, the clinically and statistically significant results, and the internal 
validity.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  concept  of  immune-surveillance  of  cancer  is  established  and 
provides  a  plausible  rationale  for  pharmacodynamic  strategies  to  enhance  antileukemic  effects  of  T- 
and NK cells. However, the CHMP considered that further clinical data should be provided in order to 
provide  a  better  understanding of  the  clinical  efficacy  of  Ceplene  in  combination  with  IL-2,  and    to 
confirm the underlying mechanism of action. However, the CHMP, in agreement with the SAG, also 
recognised  that  certain  relevant  questions  remain  unanswered,  in  particular  concerning  the 
contributions to the effect of all the components of the combination, as well as optimising the doses of 
the  two  agents,  etc.,  but  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  all  such  questions  could  be  addressed 
comprehensively  in  a  rare  disease  setting  such  as  the  maintenance  treatment  of  AML.  Thus,  the 
CHMP  proposed  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances,  after  having  consulted 
the applicant.  
In  particular  there  is  a  need  to  gain  more  understanding  with  regard  to  the  benefit-risk  profile  of 
Ceplene  plus  IL-2  combination  and  the  role  of  Ceplene  in  such  a  combination.  The  applicant  will 
provide clinical data to assess the immunologic and anti-leukaemic activity of Ceplene/IL-2 in adult 
AML patients in CR1, to study the effect in patients >60 years old compared to younger patients, and 
to  assess  the  anti-leukaemic  activity  of  Ceplene/IL-2  in  adult  AML  patients  with  minimal  residual 
disease. To this end, the applicant has committed to conduct the following studies: 
−  Multicenter  Open-Label  Clinical  Pharmacology  Study  to    Evaluate  the  Biomarkers  and 
Pharmacologic Endpoints of Ceplene (Histamine Dihydrochloride) plus low dose Interleukin-2 in 
approximately  100  Adult  Patients  stratified  by  age  great  or  less  than  60  with  Acute  Myeloid 
Leukemia in First Complete Remission (CR), with well characterized Morphologic, Cytogenetic 
and Molecular profiles 
−  Open label clinical study to evaluate Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) for the assessment of the 
anti-leukaemic  activity  of  Ceplene/IL-2  Ceplene  (Histamine  Dihydrochloride)  plus  low  dose 
Interleukin-2  in  approximately  150  Adult  Patients  stratified  by  age  great  or  less  than  60  with 
Acute Myeloid Leukemia in First Complete Remission.   
The  applicant  has  also  committed  to  assessing  the  feasibility  and  if  applicable  to  conducting  a 
controlled clinical study in order to confirm the clinical benefit of the combination of Ceplene/IL-2 in 
adult AML patients in CR1:  
−  The applicant has also committed to determining the feasibility of conducting,  in conjunction with 
collaborative  groups  in  Europe  and/or  the  United  States,  a  Multicenter  Randomized  Open-Label 
Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety  and  Efficacy  of  Immunotherapy  with  Subcutaneous  Ceplene 
Page 50 of 54 
(Histamine  Dihydrochloride)  plus  low  dose  Interleukin-2  Versus  a  comparator  arm  to  be 
determined  in approximately 350 adult Patients (stratified by age great or less than 60) with Acute 
Myeloid Leukemia in First Complete Remission. 
Divergent  views  were  expressed  by  some  CHMP  members  who  considered  that  the  benefit-risk 
balance could not be considered to be positive and that the grounds for refusal should be maintained, 
because  the  data  presented  are  not  sufficiently  compelling  to  establish  the  efficacy  of  the  product 
based  on  a  single  pivotal  study,  because  of  the  absence  of  supportive  data,  and  because  relevant 
clinical data to confirm the pharmacological rationale for Ceplene + IL2 have not been submitted.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
−  No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
In  this  application,  the  Applicant  has  provided  arguments  discussing  the  issue  of  similarity,  in  the 
context  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No  847/2000,  regarding  the  orphan  medicinal  product 
Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) authorised in the EU for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia. 
The CHMP concluded that:  
-  A  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Trisenox  containing  arsenic  trioxide  for 
induction of remission and consolidation in adult patients with relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic 
leukaemia (APL) exists with orphan market exclusivity. 
- Histamine dihydrochloride and arsenic trioxide are considered not to be similar with regards to the  
mechanism of action since they act on different pharmacodynamic targets. 
-  Histamine  dihydrochloride  is  not  structurally  similar  to  arsenic  trioxide  as  both  molecules  do  not 
share the same principal molecular structure pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 847/2000. 
Therefore, the CHMP considered Ceplene not to be similar to any of the authorized orphan medicinal 
products (as defined in Art. 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 847/2000) for a condition relating 
to the proposed therapeutic indication. 
Recommendation following re-examination 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP re-examined its initial 
opinion  and  in  its  final  opinion  concluded  by  a  majority  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of 
Ceplene  maintenance  therapy  for  adult  patients  with  acute  myeloid  leukaemia  in  first  remission 
concomitantly  treated  with  IL-2  was  favourable  and  that  the  application  satisfied  the  criteria  for 
authorisation  and  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances. 
Page 51 of 54 
 
 
References 
(1)  Tilly  BC,  Tertoolen  LG,  Remorie  R,  Ladoux  A,  Verlaan  I,  de  Laat  SW  et  al.  Histamine  as  a 
growth  factor  and  chemoattractant  for  human  carcinoma  and  melanoma  cells:  action  through 
Ca2(+)-mobilizing H1 receptors. J Cell Biol 1990; 110(4):1211-1215 
(2)  Valencia S, Hernandez-Angeles A, Soria-Jasso LE, Arias-Montano JA. Histamine H(1) receptor 
activation  inhibits  the  proliferation  of  human  prostatic  adenocarcinoma  DU-145  cells.  Prostate 
2001; 48(3):179-187 
(3)  Brune M, Hansson M, Mellqvist UH, Hermodsson S, Hellstrand K. NK cell-mediated killing of 
AML blasts: role of histamine, monocytes and reactive oxygen metabolites. 
Eur J Haematol 1996; 57(4):312-319 
(4)  Brune M, Hellstrand K. Remission maintenance therapy with histamine and interleukin-2 in acute 
myelogenous leukaemia. Br J Haematol 1996; 92(3):620-626 
(5)  Burtin  C,  Scheinmann  P,  Salomon  JC,  Lespinats  G,  Canu  P.  Decrease  in  tumour  growth  by 
injections  of  histamine  or  serotonin  in  fibrosarcoma-bearing  mice:  influence  of  H1  and 
H2 histamine receptors. Br J Cancer 1982; 45(1):54-60 
(6)  Burtin  C,  Scheinmann  P,  Salomon  JC,  Lespinats  G,  Loisillier  F,  Canu  P.  The  influence  of 
intraperitoneal  injections  of  histamine  on  tumour  growth  in  fibrosarcoma-bearing  mice.  Cancer 
Lett 1981; 12(3):195-201 
(7)  Tatsuta M, Yamamura H, Ichii M, Taniguchi H. Promotion by histamine of carcinogenesis in the 
forestomach  and  protection  by  histamine  against  carcinogenesis  induced  by  N-nitroso-N- 
methylnitroguanidine in the glandular stomach in W rats. J Natl Cancer Inst 1983; 71(2):361-364 
(8)  della  Rovere  F,  Broccio  G,  Granata  A,  Fimiani  V.  In  vivo  experimental  demonstration  that 
hyperhistaminism counteracts tumour growth. Oncol Rep 1994; 1:175-177 
(9)  Cricco GP, Davio CA, Bergoc RM, Rivera ES. Inhibition of tumour growth by histamine: in vivo 
and in vitro studies. Agents Actions 1993; 38:C175-C177 
(10) Hellstrand K, Asea A, Hermodsson S. Role of histamine in natural killer cell-mediated resistance 
against tumour cells. J Immunol 1990; 145(12):4365-4370 
(11) Asea  A,  Hermodsson  S,  Hellstrand  K.  Histaminergic  regulation  of  natural  killer  cell-mediated 
clearance of tumour cells in mice. Scand J Immunol 1996; 43(1):9-15 
(12) Suonio E, Tuomisto L, Alhava E. Effects of histamine, H1, H2 and Hic receptor antagonists and 
alpha-  fluoromethylhistidine  on  the  growth  of  human  colorectal  cancer  in  the  subrenal  capsule 
assay. Agents Actions 1994; 41 Spec No:C118-C120 
(13) Rizell M, Naredi P, Lindner P, Hellstrand K, Sarno M, Jansson PA. Histamine pharmacokinetics 
in tumour and host tissues after bolus-dose administration in the rat. Life Sic 2002; 70(8):969-976 
(14) Rizell  M,  Hellstrand  K,  Lindner  P,  Naredi  P.  Monotherapy  with  histamine  dihydrochloride 
subcutis. 
sarcoma 
growth 
liver 
and 
rat 
of 
in 
in 
a 
suppresses 
Anticancer Res 2002; 22(4):1943-1948 
vivo 
(15) Adams WJ, Lawson JA, Morris DL. Cimetidine inhibits in vivo growth of human colon cancer 
and reverses histamine stimulated in vitro and in vivo growth. Gut 1994; 35(11): 1632-1636 
(16) Vourka-Karussis  U,  Levi-Schaffer  F,  Slavin  S.  Investigations  on  the  role  of  inflammatory  and 
anti-inflammatory  agents  on  the  treatment  of  murine  B  cell  leukemia  by  recombinant  human 
interleukin-2. Exp Hematol 1993; 21(1): 93-97 
Page 52 of 54 
 
(17) Hanna  N,  Fidler  IJ.  Role  of  natural  killer  cells  in  the  destruction  of  circulating  tumour  emboli. 
J Natl Cancer Inst 1980; 65(4):801-809 
(18) Johansson  S,  Landstrom  M,  Hellstrand  K,  Henriksson  R.  The  response  of  Dunning  R3327 
prostatic adenocarcinoma to IL-2, histamine and radiation. Br J Cancer 1998; 77(8):1213-1219 
(19) Johansson S, Landstrom M, Henriksson R. Alterations of tumour cells, stroma and apoptosis in 
rat  prostatic  adenocarcinoma  following  treatment  with  histamine,  interleukin-2  and  irradiation. 
Anticancer Res 1999; 19(3A): 1961-1969 
(20) Johansson  M,  Henriksson  R,  Bergenheim  AT,  Koskinen  LO.  Interleukin-2  and  histamine  in 
glioma. 
in  malignant 
angiogenesis 
growth 
and 
combination 
tumour 
Br J Cancer 2000; 83(6):826-832 
inhibit 
(21) Suga  M,  Morita  R,  Kaneko  K,  Kyo  S.  [Impact  of  cimetidine  on  growth  and  metastasis  of 
surgically transplanted Lewis lung cancer]. Nihon Kokyuki Gakkai Zasshi 2003; 41(9):626-630 
(22) Osband  ME,  Hamilton  D,  Shen  YJ,  Cohen  E,  Shlesinger  M,  Lavin  P  et  al.  Successful  tumour 
immunotherapy with cimetidine in mice. Lancet 1981; 1(8221):636-638 
(23) Tonnesen  H,  Knigge  U,  Bulow  S,  Damm  P,  Fischerman  K,  Hesselfeldt  P  et  al.  Effect  of 
cimetidine on survival after gastric cancer. Lancet 1988; 2(8618):990-992 
(24) Gifford  RR,  Voss  BV,  Ferguson  RM.  Cimetidine  protection  against  lethal  tumour  challenge  in 
mice. Surgery 1981; 90(2):344-351 
(25) Gorczynski  RM,  Kennedy  M,  Ciampi  A.  Cimetidine  reverses  tumour  growth  enhancement  of 
plasmacytoma tumours in mice demonstrating conditioned immunosuppression. J Immunol 1985; 
134(6):4261-4266 
(26) Caignard A, Martin M, Reisser D, Thomas B, Martin F. Effects of cimetidine and indomethacin 
on  the  growth  of  dimethylhydrazine-induced  or  transplanted  intestinal  cancers  in  the  rat.  Br  J 
Cancer 1984; 50(5):661-665 
(27) Anderson  LM,  Giner-Sorolla  A,  Haller  IM,  Budinger  JM.  Effects  of  cimetidine,  nitrite, 
cimetidine  plus  nitrite,  and  nitrosocimetidine  on  tumours  in  mice  following  transplacental  plus 
chronic lifetime exposure. Cancer Res 1985; 45(8):3561-3566 
(28) Hellstrand  K,  Brune  M,  Mellqvist  UH,  Naredi  P.  Histamine,  cimetidine  and  colorectal  cancer 
[letter]. Nat Med 1996; 2(4):364-365 
(29) Schayer RW, Reilly MA. In vivo formation and catabolism of (14C) histamine in mouse brain. J 
Neurochem 1970; 17:1649-1655 
(30) Schayer  R.  W.  et  al.  The  metabolism  of  histamine  in  various  species.  Br  J  Pharmacol  (1956); 
11:472-473 
(31) Lindell  S.-E.  et  al.  The  renal  removal  of  injected  (14C)  histamine  from  the  blood  of  dogs  Br  J 
Pharmacol Chemother. 1958 Mar;13(1):44-51 
(32) Snyder  S.  H.  et  al.  The  fate  of  (14C)  histamine  in  animal  tissues    J  Pharmacol  Exptl  Therap 
1964;144:373-9 
(33) Kahlson  G.  et  al.  Increased  formation  of  histamine  in  the  pregnant  rat.  J  Physiol.  (1958)  29; 
143(1): 91-103 
(34) Maslinski  C.  et  al.  Histamine  and  its  metabolism  in  mammals.  Part  II:  catabolism  of  histamine 
and histamine liberation. Agents Action 5(3) (1975):183-225 
Page 53 of 54 
(35) Beer  D.  J.  et  al.  The  influence  of  histamine  on  immune  and  inflammatory  responses.  Adv 
Immunol; 35:209-268 
(36) Jutel M. et al. Histamine regulates T-cell and antibody response by differential expression of H1 
and H2 receptors., 2001 Nature; 413(6854): 420-425 
(37) Caron  G.  et  al.  Histamine  induces  CD86  expression  and  chemokine  production  by  human 
immature dendritic cells. J Immunol; 166(10):6000-6006 
(38) Dohlsten  M.  et  al.  Histamine  inhibits  interferon-γ  production  via  suppression  of  interleukin-2 
synthesis Cell Immunol; 101(2):493-501 (1986) 
(39) Dohlsten M. al.. Histamine acts directly on human T cells to inhibit interleukin-2 and interferon-γ 
production. Cell Immunol; 109(1):65-74 (1987) 
(40) Dohlsten M. et al. Histamine inhibits interleukin 1 production by lipopoly saccharide-stimulated 
human peripheral blood monocytes. Scand J Immunol; 28(6):727-733, 1988 
(41) Hansson  et  al.  Histamine  protects  Tcells  and  natural  killer  cells  against  oxidative  stress. 
J Interferon Cytokine Res; 19(10):1135-1144 (1999) 
(42) Marciniak DL, Dobbins DE, Maciejko JJ, Scott JB, Haddy FJ, Grega GJ. Effects of systemically 
infused histamine on transvascular fluid and protein transfer. Am J Physiol 1977; 233(1):H148-
H153 
(43) Pilati CF, Maron MB. Effect of histamine on coronary microvascular permeability. Am J Physiol 
1984; 247(1 Pt 2):H1-H7 
(44) Grega  GJ,  Adamski  SW,  Dobbins  DE.  Physiological  and  pharmacological  evidence  for  the 
regulation of permeability. Fed Proc 1986; 45(2):96-100 
(45) Oguri S, Yoneya Y. Assay and biological relevance of endogenous histamine and its metabolites: 
application  of  microseparation  techniques.  J  Chromatogr  B  Analyt  Technol  Biomed  Life  Sci 
2002; 781(1-2):165-179 
(46) Donskov F, Hokland M, Marcussen N, Torp Madsen HH and von der Maase H. Monocytes and 
neutrophils  as  ‘bad  guys’  for  the  outcome  of  interleukin-2  with  and  without  histamine  in 
metastatic  renal  cell  carcinoma  –  results  from  a  randomised  phase  II  trial.  British  Journal  of 
Cancer (2006) 94, 218 – 226 
Page 54 of 54 
 
