ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ceplene 0.5 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of 0.5 mL of solution contains 0.5 mg of histamine dihydrochloride. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
Clear, colourless aqueous solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ceplene maintenance therapy is indicated for adult patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in 
first remission concomitantly treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2). The efficacy of Ceplene has not been 
fully demonstrated in patients older than age 60. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Ceplene maintenance therapy should be administered following completion of consolidation therapy 
in patients concomitantly treated with IL-2 under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management of acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Posology 
For dosing instructions for Ceplene in combination with IL-2, see posology below.    
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) 
IL-2 is administered twice daily as a subcutaneous injection 1 to 3 minutes prior to the 
administration of Ceplene; each dose of IL-2 is 16,400 IU/kg (1 µg/kg). 
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) is commercially available as a recombinant IL-2; aldesleukin. The dispensing and 
storage directions in the section 6.6 are specific to aldesleukin. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ceplene 
0.5 mL solution is sufficient for a single dose (see section 6.6). 
Ceplene is administered 1 to 3 minutes after each injection of IL-2.  Each 0.5 mL Ceplene dose is 
injected slowly, over 5-15 minutes.  
Treatment cycles 
Ceplene and IL-2 are administered for 10 treatment cycles: each cycle consists of a treatment period of 
21 days (3 weeks) followed by a three-week or six-week treatment-free period. 
For cycles 1-3, each cycle consists of 3 weeks of treatment, followed by a 3-week treatment free 
period. For cycles 4-10, each cycle consists of 3 weeks of treatment, followed by a 6-week treatment 
free period.  
The recommended dosing regimen is presented in Tables 1 and 2. 
Table 1: For treatment cycles 1-3 with Ceplene and IL-2 
Week number (w)* 
Cycle 3 
Cycle 2 
Cycle 1 
w.13 to w.15 
w.7 to w.9 
w.1 to w.3 
(Days 1-21) 
(Days 1-21) 
(Days 1-21) 
w.4 to w.6  w.10 to w.12  w.16 to w.18 
Treatment* 
IL-2 16 400 IU/kg followed by 0.5 mL Ceplene. 
Twice daily.  
Treatment-free (3 weeks) 
*see dose modification for provisions for the modification to dose and dosage schedule 
Table 2:  For treatment cycles 4-10 with Ceplene and IL-2, same as for Table 1 above, with the 
exception of number of cycles and duration of rest periods 
Treatment* 
Week number (w)* 
Cycles 
7 
w.46 
to 
w.48 
w.49 
to 
w.54 
5 
w.28 
to 
w.30 
w.31 
to 
w.36 
4 
w.19 
to 
w.21 
w.22 
to 
w.27 
*see dose modification for provisions for the modification to dose and dosage schedule 
8 
w.55- 
to 
w.57 
w.58 
to 
w.63 
6 
w.37 
to 
w.39 
w.40 
to 
w.45 
10 
w.73 
to 
w.75 
w.76 
to 
w.81 
9 
w.64 
to 
w.66 
w.67 
to 
w.72 
IL-2 16 400 IU/kg followed by 0.5 mL 
Ceplene. Twice daily 
Treatment-free (6 weeks) 
Dose modification 
Patients should be monitored for the expected symptomatic adverse reactions and laboratory changes 
associated with this treatment.  Doses of Ceplene and IL-2 should be modified as necessary based on 
individual patient tolerance to treatment.  It is recommended that dose modifications be addressed 
early in treatment.  The dose reductions can be temporary or permanent.  
Should Ceplene related toxicities occur (such as hypotension, headache), the injection time can be 
increased from 5 minutes to a maximum duration of 15 minutes. 
For patients experiencing grade 1 toxicity events 
No altered dose recommendations with the exception of grade 1 neurologic toxicity and grade 1 
generalised toxic dermatitis. For the dose recommendations for these grade 1 toxicity events refer to 
the relevant sections below: 
For patients experiencing grade 1-4 neurologic toxicity  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-for grade 1 to 3 toxicity, treatment should be discontinued until grade 0 toxicity event has 
 been achieved.  Treatment should then be resumed at a 20% dose reduction for both Ceplene 
 and IL-2. 
-for grade 4 toxicity, discontinuation of treatment should be considered.  
For patients experiencing grade 1-4 generalised toxic dermatitis  
-for grade 1 toxicity, the treatment should be delayed for 48 hours or until all symptoms have 
 been resolved.  Treatment should then be resumed using the full dose of Ceplene, but  
 reducing the IL-2 dose by 20%.   
-for grade 2 toxicity, the IL-2 dose should be reduced 50% and only increased to full dose if  
 the symptoms do not reappear.  Ceplene and IL-2 doses should be separated by 60 minutes,  
 which should be maintained throughout treatment.   
-for grade 3 and 4 toxicity, treatment should be discontinued and not resumed until events  
 have been resolved.  Treatment should only be resumed after consideration of risk – benefit 
 to the patient. 
For patients experiencing grade 2 (including cardiac function, renal, hepatic) toxicity 
- treatment should be discontinued until the event has returned to grade 1 
- the time of injection of the dose of Ceplene should be extended to a maximum of 15 minutes. 
- for cardiac, hepatic or renal toxicities the dose should be reduced by 20% for both Ceplene 
  and IL-2. 
For patients experiencing grade 3 and 4 (including hypotension, arrhythmia) toxicities 
- treatment should be discontinued until the event is resolved.  A maximum delay of one 
  treatment cycle can be considered for the resolution of grade 3 and 4 events. 
For persistent hypotension, headache, arrhythmia, cardiac, hepatic and renal toxicities 
- the time of injection of the dose of Ceplene should be extended to a maximum of  
15 minutes. 
- the dose amount of both Ceplene and IL-2 should be reduced by 20%. 
Fever 
- IL-2 can be discontinued for 24 hours and then restarted at a 20% dose reduction level. 
Abnormal WBC counts 
- the dose of IL-2 can be reduced by 20% for the remaining duration of the treatment course 
 and if abnormal WBC counts re-occur during the following cycle a permanent IL-2 reduction  
 is recommended. 
Localised toxic dermatitis 
- treatment should be discontinued until symptoms resolved. Treatment can be resumed by 
  administering Ceplene at the full dose and IL-2 at 50%. 
Special populations 
Elderly patients  
The efficacy of Ceplene has not been fully demonstrated in patients older than age 60. 
Renal impairment 
Patients with renal impairment may be more sensitive to the blood pressure lowering effects of 
Ceplene. Although the degree of renal impairment has no demonstrable effect on the pharmacokinetic 
disposition of Ceplene, caution is warranted when Ceplene is administered to patients with severe 
renal impairment. However, no Ceplene dose reduction is normally required in renally impaired 
patients. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Ceplene should be used with caution in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (see 
section 5.2). Plasma Ceplene levels are higher in patients with moderate and severe liver impairment, 
and these patient groups tend to experience more tachycardia and lower blood pressure after Ceplene 
dosing than do patients with normal or mildly affected liver function. Plasma drug levels were not 
predictive of adverse effects, however, and effects did not correlate closely with drug exposure. Dose 
reduction of Ceplene is normally not required in hepatically impaired patients, but caution should be 
used in these patients. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Ceplene in children below 18 years of age have not yet been established. 
No data are available.  
Method of administration 
Ceplene is for subcutaneous use only.  
One to 3 minutes after the subcutaneous administration of IL-2 has been completed, Ceplene should be 
administered by slow subcutaneous injection at a rate not to exceed 0.1 mL (0.1 mg histamine 
dihydrochloride) per minute.  The usual time for administering a 0.5 mL Ceplene dose is 5 minutes.  
To reduce potential adverse reactions, the administration time may be lengthened to a maximum of 
15 minutes, see below. Ceplene can be administered via an ambulatory infusion syringe pump or by 
controlled manual subcutaneous injection by syringe with a timer. 
The first dose of Ceplene and IL-2 on day 1 of the initiation of the first cycle of treatment should be 
administered in the clinic under direct supervision by a physician.  Patient monitoring on day 1 should 
include vital signs, including pulse, blood pressure and respiratory rate.  If the patient experiences a 
significant change in vital signs, the physician should evaluate the status of the patient and continue to 
monitor vital signs; these patients should be monitored during subsequent treatments. 
Subsequent injections of Ceplene may be self-administered at home by a patient who demonstrates a 
good understanding of necessary precautions and who has demonstrated adequate injection skills.  
Injections should be preferably administered in a supervised setting in the presence of an adult family 
member, friend, or other care provider who is capable of responding appropriately should signs or 
symptoms of hypotension occur.  
The preferred injection areas are the thighs and the abdomen. Ceplene should not be injected into the 
same anatomic region as IL-2.  
The twice daily dosing of IL-2 and Ceplene should be separated by a minimum of 6 hours. Patients 
should remain at rest for 20 minutes after injection of Ceplene. 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of Interleukin-2 (aldesleukin) before administration, see 
commercially available IL-2 SmPC. 
4.3  Contraindications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Patients with significantly compromised cardiac function, e.g., NYHA Class III/IV. 
Patients receiving systemic steroid therapy, clonidine and H2 blocking agents. 
Patients who have received an allogenic stem cell transplant. 
During pregnancy. 
During breast feeding. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and special precautions for use 
Ceplene should be administered 1 to 3 minutes after IL-2 administration, and not concomitantly. 
Rapid subcutaneous injection or injection into a vascular space may result in severe hypotension, 
tachycardia, or syncope.   
Treatment with Ceplene in conjunction with IL-2 should be used with caution in patients with poorly 
compensated cardiac function.  Patients with cardiac disease should be evaluated for ventricular 
ejection fraction and wall function by echocardiography or nuclear medicine stress test and then 
treated with caution. 
Patients should be monitored during treatment for possible clinical complications due to hypotension 
or hypovolaemia.  Ceplene should be administered in the clinic under supervision of the physician on 
day 1 of the initial treatment cycle.  Patient monitoring on day 1 should include vital signs, including 
pulse, blood pressure and respiratory rate. 
Patient monitoring during subsequent treatment days or cycles should be performed as long as the 
patient continues to experience significant changes in vital signs during administration of Ceplene.  If 
significant hypotension or related symptoms are observed in subsequent treatment cycles, dose 
reduction should be initiated and if required, administered in hospital until responses to treatment 
allow for home administration. 
Caution should be used for patients with any of the following: symptomatic peripheral arterial disease, 
past or present peptic or oesophageal ulcer disease with a history of bleeding, clinically significant 
renal disease and stroke within the last 12 months.  Where appropriate, consideration should be made 
to providing concomitant treatment with a proton pump inhibitor. 
Patients with clinically significant infection requiring the use of antibiotics, antifungals, or antivirals, 
or who have completed prior anti-infectious therapy within 14 days of starting treatment should be 
treated with caution unless the use of antibiotics and antivirals were for prophylaxis purposes. 
Patients with a prior history of autoimmune disease (including systemic lupus, inflammatory bowel 
disease, psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis) should be treated with caution. 
Monitoring of laboratory test results is recommended including standard haematological and blood 
chemistry tests. 
Patients receiving the following medicinal products should be treated with caution (see section 4.5): 
- Beta-blockers or other anti-hypertensive agents.  
- H1 blocking agents and neuroleptics (anti-psychotics) with H1 receptor blocking properties.  
- Tricyclic anti-depressants that may have H1 and H2 receptor blocking properties.  
- Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and anti-malarial and anti-trypanosomal agents.  
- Neuromuscular blocking agents, narcotic analgesics, and various contrast media.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
While posology differs, when Ceplene is used in conjunction with IL-2, physicians should also refer to 
the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for IL-2 and observe the respective medicinal 
product interactions. 
H2 receptor antagonists with imidazole structures similar to histamine, e.g., cimetidine, systemic 
steroids and clonidine, must not be used during treatment with Ceplene (see section 4.3). 
Beta-blockers and other anti-hypertensive agents should be used with caution during treatment with 
Ceplene.  Concurrent administration of medicinal products with cardiotoxicity or blood pressure 
lowering effects may increase the toxicity of Ceplene. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H1 receptor blocking antihistamines or neuroleptics (anti-psychotics) with H1 receptor blocking 
properties that might decrease efficacy of Ceplene should be avoided. 
Tricyclic anti-depressants may have H1 and H2 receptor blocking properties and should be avoided.  
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors, anti-malarial, and anti-trypanosomal active substances may alter the 
metabolism of Ceplene and should be avoided (see section 4.4). 
It has been noted that neuromuscular blocking agents, narcotic analgesics, and various contrast media 
can induce the release of endogenous histamine; therefore in patients undergoing diagnostic or 
surgical procedures, the additive effect of Ceplene treatment should be considered prior to the 
procedure (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential and sexually active men must use effective methods of contraception 
during treatment with Ceplene and IL-2. 
Pregnancy 
For Ceplene, no clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available.  Animal studies showed 
reproductive toxicity but only at maternotoxic doses, and did not indicate direct harmful effects with 
respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see 
section 5.3).  Ceplene in conjunction with IL-2 must not be used during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether histamine is excreted in human breast milk.  The excretion of histamine in milk 
has not been studied in animals, but at maternotoxic doses in rats, offspring showed slight toxicity 
during early lactation (see section 5.3).  Ceplene in conjunction with IL-2 must not be used during 
breast-feeding.  
Refer to the IL-2 SmPC for information on pregnancy and breast-feeding with IL-2.  
Fertility 
No clinical data are available on the effects of Ceplene on fertility.  Animal studies revealed no 
adverse effects on fertility apart from a slight reduction in implantations and viable foetuses (see 
section 5.3).   
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Ceplene has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Administration of Ceplene 
can cause hypotension and may result in dizziness, light-headedness and blurred vision.  Patients 
should not drive or operate machines for at least 1 hour after receiving Ceplene. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adverse reactions were reported to be at least possibly related to IL-2 and Ceplene treatment in almost 
all patients in studies in AML. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse reactions experienced by 30% or more of patients receiving IL-2 and 
Ceplene (listed in descending order of frequency) were: flushing, headache, fatigue, injection site 
granuloma, pyrexia and injection site erythema. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions considered at least possibly related to the treatment of low-dose IL-2 with 
Ceplene in AML studies (n=280 for the IL-2 and Ceplene treatment arm) are listed below by body 
system organ, class and frequency. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented 
in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequencies are defined as very common ( 1/10), common 
( 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare 
(< 1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated from the available data).  
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism  and  nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic, and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Frequency 
Very common 
Adverse reaction 
upper respiratory tract 
infections 
pneumonia 
eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia  Very common 
leucopenia, 
Common 
Common 
neutropenia 
anorexia 
Common 
Common 
insomnia 
headache, dizziness, dysgeusia  Very common 
Very common 
tachycardia 
Common 
palpitations 
Very common 
flushing, hypotension 
Very common 
cough, dyspnoea 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
nasal congestion 
nausea, dyspepsia, diarrhoea 
vomiting, abdominal pain 
upper, dry mouth, gastritis, 
abdominal distention 
rash 
erythema, hyperhidrosis, night 
sweats, pruritus 
arthralgia, myalgia 
pain in extremity, back pain 
injection site granuloma, 
fatigue, pyrexia, injection site 
erythema, feeling hot, injection 
site reaction, injection site 
pruritus, influenza like illness, 
chills, injection site 
inflammation, injection site 
pain 
injection site urticaria, injection 
site bruising, injection site rash, 
injection site swelling, 
asthenia, chest pain 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
Other oncology (advanced tumour) studies 
Ceplene and low dose IL-2 have been investigated in other clinical studies at different doses (1 mg 
histamine dihydrochloride twice a day) and with different dose regimens of low-dose IL-2 and 
interferon-alfa.  The following adverse reactions, not listed above, were at least possibly related to the 
study medicine: 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic, and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Adverse reaction 
anaemia 
hypothyroidism 
decreased appetite 
dehydration 
anxiety 
depression 
paraesthesia 
vertigo 
hot flush 
wheezing 
constipation, abdominal 
distention, stomatitis 
dry skin 
malaise, oedema peripheral 
injection site fibrosis, pain 
weight decreased 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Frequency 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It  
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare  
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Administration of Ceplene or IL-2 by rapid infusion or into vascular spaces, at higher doses than the 
approved ones, may exaggerate the adverse reactions associated with Ceplene.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunostimulants, other immunostimulants, ATC code: L03AX14. 
Mechanism of action 
Ceplene/IL-2 is an immunotherapy which aims to induce immune-mediated destruction of residual 
myeloid leukaemic cells and thereby to prevent relapse of leukaemia.  The role of Ceplene is to protect 
lymphocytes, in particular NK cells and T cells, which are responsible for the immune-mediated 
destruction of residual leukaemic cells.  The role of IL-2 is to promote the functions of NK cells and T 
cells by activating the anti-leukaemic properties of these cells and by expanding these cell populations 
by inducing cell cycle proliferation.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The mechanism by which Ceplene improves the anti-leukaemic function of lymphocytes in AML is 
not completely established; it is considered to be by inhibition of reactive oxygen species (ROS or 
‘oxygen free radicals’), which are synthesised by monocytes/macrophages and granulocytes.  ROS are 
known to limit the anti-leukaemic effects of lymphocyte activators such as IL-2, by triggering 
dysfunction and death by apoptosis in NK cells and T cells.  Ceplene inhibits NAPDH oxidase which 
initiates the formation and release of ROS from phagocytes. By inhibiting oxidase function and 
reducing ROS production, Ceplene protects IL-2-activated NK cells and T cells from oxygen free 
radical-induced inhibition and apoptosis. The concomitant administration of Ceplene and IL-2 
therefore aims to optimise the anti-leukaemic functions of NK cells and T cells. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
There have been 2 clinical studies to evaluate the use of Ceplene in the maintenance of remission in 
adult AML patients.  Study AML-1 was exploratory, enrolling 39 AML patients in remission to 
determine the dose and feasibility of Ceplene administered together with IL-2.  Results of this pilot 
study were used to design and implement a multi-national phase 3 trial.  The randomised phase 3 trial 
(0201) compared Ceplene+IL-2 treatment to no treatment in 261 patients in first remission (CR1) and 
in another 59 patients in subsequent remission after relapse (CR>1).  For CR1 patients, the median 
duration of leukaemia-free survival increased from 291 days (9.7 months) to 450 days (15 months) 
after Ceplene/IL-2 versus no maintenance treatment (Intention to Treat [ITT], p=0.01. n=261).  The 
number of CR1 patients remaining leukaemia-free for 3 years was 40% after Ceplene+IL-2 versus 
26% in patients not receiving this treatment (p=0.01). 
Paediatric population 
Ceplene is indicated for use in adults. There are no data available on pharmacodynamic properties in 
children below 18 years of age. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to 
the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal 
product. The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become 
available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary.   
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Histamine is rapidly absorbed after subcutaneous injection.  Maximum plasma concentration is 
reached approximately 10 minutes after end of subcutaneous infusion.  Histamine concentrations and 
PK were highly variable across studies, as well as within the normal volunteer and patient groups.   
Distribution 
Patients showed a higher degree of variability with respect to systemic exposure as compared to 
healthy subjects. Overall systemic exposure of Ceplene was greater in patients versus healthy subjects. 
However, this difference was not statistically significant. 
It is not known whether histamine crosses the placenta. 
Biotransformation/Elimination 
Histamine is eliminated by metabolism in kidney, liver and other tissues.  The main enzymes involved 
in the metabolism of histamine are HNMT (histamine-N-methyltransferase) and DAO (diamine 
oxidase).  The metabolites are mainly excreted in urine.  The mean half-life was 0.75 to 1.5 hours in 
patients. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no significant effects of age or weight on the pharmacokinetic properties of histamine.  
Clearance of Ceplene is almost twice as high in females resulting in considerably lower systemic 
exposure than in males.  
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of histamine are similar in healthy volunteers with normal renal function 
compared to volunteers with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment.  In subjects with severe renal 
impairment, there were decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at plasma histamine 
concentrations which caused no appreciable decrease in blood pressure in other subjects.  Thus, 
subjects with severe renal impairment may be more sensitive to the blood pressure lowering effects of 
exogenously administered histamine than subjects with normal renal function or subjects with mild or 
moderate renal impairment.  Although the degree of renal impairment has little effect on the PK 
disposition of histamine, caution should be used in the administration of histamine to patients with 
severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
A study was performed to measure the PK of histamine in normal volunteers compared to patients 
with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment.  There were no clinically significant differences 
in safety parameters or in pharmacodynamics.  Plasma histamine concentrations were highly variable 
and were considerably higher in the groups of patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
(medians 10 and 5 times the normal volunteers respectively).  Patients with all degrees of hepatic 
impairment may have tachycardia or hypotension for 30-60 minutes after Ceplene+IL-2 
administration. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data  
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeated-dose 
toxicity, local tolerance and genotoxicity. Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at 
exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the maximum human exposure, indicating little 
relevance to clinical use.  No carcinogenicity studies have been performed on Ceplene. 
Histamine dihydrochloride was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses resulting in several hundred-
fold greater systemic exposures than the clinical exposure. In female rats dosed before mating to 
gestation day 7, slightly reduced numbers of implantations and viable foetuses were found, but without 
any dose-response and within the range of historical control data. In the peri-post natal development 
study, high doses of histamine dihydrochloride caused maternal toxicity, and the offspring showed 
toxicity during lactation (fewer live pups at day 21 compared to lactation at day 4) but not after 
weaning.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Sodium chloride  
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies this medicinal product should not be mixed with other 
medicinal products, diluents or infusion solutions.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3 
Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
Do not freeze. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
2 mL type I glass vial, with bromobutyl rubber stopper and flip-off aluminium over seal, containing 
0.5 mL of solution (0.70 mL including overfill).   
Each carton contains 14 vials.   
6.6 
Special precaution for disposal and other handling 
Ceplene 
The vials contain 0.70 mL of solution (including overfill) to facilitate the dose extraction of a single 
0.5 mL dose.  
Patients should be provided with capped polypropylene syringes and instructed to extract 0.5 mL of 
solution into the syringe. 
The solution should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration.  The solution must be clear and colourless.   
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
Interleukin-2 (IL-2; aldesleukin) 
Dilute IL-2 dispensed in capped polypropylene tuberculin syringes is to be prepared by the pharmacy 
in a controlled aseptic environment and stored in a refrigerator at 2°C – 8°C.  
For instructions on the initial reconstitution and subsequent dilution to 200 µg/mL of Interleukin-2 
(aldesleukin) before administration, see commercially available IL-2 SmPC. 
Dispensing instructions for IL-2 (aldesleukin) 
IL-2 (aldesleukin) should be aseptically reconstituted, diluted and dispensed in capped polypropylene 
tuberculin syringes by the pharmacy based on the individual patient’s weight (see administration chart 
for aldesleukin below) at the recommended dose of 16 400 IU/kg (1 µg/kg). Up to two weeks supply 
of pre-filled capped tuberculin syringes may be provided to patients for home administration, with 
instructions that the syringes be stored under refrigeration at 2°C – 8°C prior to administration. 
Studies have shown chemical stability and sterility of diluted aldesleukin (dispensed in capped 
polypropylene tuberculin syringes) for up to three weeks when prepared in a controlled aseptic 
environment and stored under refrigeration at 2°C – 8°C. 
NOTE: Dispensing of aldesleukin must be carried out under controlled aseptic conditions.  
Dispensing of dilute IL-2 (aldesleukin) for each patient  
The diluted IL-2 (aldesleukin) is aseptically drawn up into sterile polypropylene tuberculin syringes 
and capped for each patient at 1 µg/kg dose, with a minimum standard dosage volume of 0.25 mL 
(50 µg) and a maximum dose of 0.5 mL (100 µg). Dosing volumes based on patient weight are 
provided in Table 3 below. This table also provides the volume required if a 20% dose reduction is 
prescribed. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Administration chart for IL-2 (aldesleukin) 
Patient weight 
Standard dosage 
Injection volume* 
20% dose reduction injection 
(kg) 
≤50 
>50 to ≤60
>60 to ≤70
>70 to ≤80
>80 to ≤90
>90 to ≤100
>100
(µg) 
 (mL) 
volume (mL)** 
50 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 
100 
0.25 
0.30 
0.35 
0.40 
0.45 
0.50 
0.50 
0.20 
0.25 
0.30 
0.30 
0.35 
0.40 
0.40 
*Injection volume rounded up to the nearest 0.05 mL
** Injection volumes based on 20% reductions are rounded thus actual dose reductions vary from 15%-25%
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Laboratoires Delbert
49 Rue Rouelle
75015 Paris
France
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/08/477/001 
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE
AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 
Date of latest renewal: 
07/10/2008 
26/07/2018 
10.
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europe.eu. 
13 
 
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION
MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER
EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES
14 
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Labiana Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
C/ Casanova, 27-31 
08757 Corbera de Llobregat (Barcelona) 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
 The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
E. 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
The MAH shall provide yearly updates on any new information concerning 
efficacy and safety of the product in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia in 
first remission concomitantly treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2). 
Due date 
Yearly, 
simultaneously 
with submission 
of Periodic Safety 
Update reports 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ceplene 0.5 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection  
histamine dihydrochloride 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of 0.5 mL of solution contains 0.5 mg histamine dihydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride, water for injections, and sodium hydroxide and/or hydrochloric acid to adjust the 
pH. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
14 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use only. 
Inject slowly over a period of 5-15 minutes. 
Inspect each vial visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to administration. Use only 
clear and colourless solution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not freeze. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Laboratoires Delbert
49 Rue Rouelle
75015 Paris
France
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/08/477/001 
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Ceplene 
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
Vial  
20 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ceplene 0.5 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection 
histamine dihydrochloride 
Subcutaneous use only 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 mL  
6. 
OTHER 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Ceplene 0.5 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection 
histamine dihydrochloride 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
 
 
 
 
Keep this leaflet.  You may need to read it again. 
If you have further questions, please ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only.  Do not pass it on to others.  It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ceplene is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Ceplene 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Ceplene 
Possible side effects 
How to store Ceplene 
Content of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ceplene is and what is used for 
Ceplene belongs to a group of medicines called immunomodulatory medicines.  These medicines help 
the body’s immune system fight diseases like cancer by improving the immune system’s natural role 
in fighting disease.  The active substance in Ceplene is histamine dihydrochloride; it is identical to a 
naturally occurring substance in the body.  It is used together with low doses of interleukin-2 (IL-2), 
another medicine which helps the immune system to fight diseases like cancer.  
Ceplene is used in adult patients, together with IL-2, to treat a particular type of leukaemia called 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) which is a cancer of blood forming cells in the bone marrow. It is 
used to maintain the remission (the period during which the disease is less severe or not detectable).  
Ceplene with IL-2 will help your immune system attack any remaining cancer cells after a previous 
cancer treatment.  
During your treatment, you will always use IL-2 AND Ceplene.  Ask your doctor if you have any 
questions about Ceplene or IL-2. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Ceplene 
Do not use Ceplene 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are allergic (hypersensitive) to histamine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
If you have severe heart problems. 
If you are receiving one of the following medicines:  
-  Steroids such as prednisone and dexamethasone.  They are used to inhibit activity of 
the immune system (immunosuppressant) and to reduce inflammation.   
-  Clonidine, a medicine used to reduce high blood pressure. 
-  H2 blockers such as cimetidine, ranitidine, famotidine or nizatidine which are used to 
treat stomach ulcers, indigestion (dyspepsia) or heartburn. 
If you have received a stem cell transplant (a kind of bone marrow transplant) from a donor.  
If you are pregnant. 
If you are breast-feeding. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Ceplene. 
Ceplene and IL-2 are not to be injected at the same time. IL-2 has to be injected first. Ceplene must be 
injected 1 to 3 minutes later. 
Ceplene must be injected slowly in the layer of tissue just under the skin (subcutaneously), over a 
period of approximately 5 to 15 minutes.  Rapid injection can cause a drop in your blood pressure and 
make you feel faint or even pass out. 
You will start your treatment with Ceplene in the clinic under supervision of a doctor.  You must be 
monitored to check how you respond to treatment.  Your doctor will check your blood pressure, pulse 
rate and lung function.  Your doctor will also carry out some blood tests during treatment. 
If you have had one of the following conditions you will be monitored in the hospital during the next 
treatment days or the next cycles of treatment: 
 
 
 
 
 
bleeding ulcers, 
stroke, 
narrowing of the arteries (systemic peripheral arterial disease), 
heart disease (for severe heart problems see above “Do not use Ceplene”), 
a history of auto-immune disease (a disease where the immune system attacks the body’s own 
cells or tissues, such as systemic lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease or 
psoriasis). 
If you are taking any other medicines mentioned under “Other medicines and Ceplene” or if you are to 
have an operation or special X-ray investigation requiring an injection, talk to your doctor. 
If you have an infection, your doctor will closely monitor you.  If you have had an infection within 
14 days of starting this treatment which required you to take medicines to treat infections (antibiotics, 
antifungals or antivirals), your doctor will closely monitor you. 
If you have kidney problems, talk to your doctor before using this medicine.  A decrease of blood 
pressure may occur.   
If you have liver problems, talk to your doctor before using this medicine.  Your doctor may change 
your dose.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Ceplene use is not recommended in children and adolescents, as there is no information available 
about using this medicine in this age group.   
Other medicines and Ceplene 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
If you are taking any of the following medicines, please be sure to discuss this with your doctor or 
pharmacist before using Ceplene. Some of them must not be taken during treatment with Ceplene or 
may need special precautions: 
 
Steroids such as prednisone and dexamethasone.  They are used to inhibit activity of the 
immune system (immunosuppressant) and to reduce inflammation (see above “Do not use 
Ceplene”). 
H2 blockers such as cimetidine, ranitidine, famotidine or nizatidine. They are used to treat 
stomach ulcers, indigestion (dyspepsia) or heartburn (see above “Do not use Ceplene”).   
Antihistamines used to treat allergy.  
Certain anti-psychotics such as chlorpromazine, flupenthixol, thoridazine, clozapine and 
risperidone.  They are used to treat mental conditions.  
Tricyclic antidepressant medicines such as amitryptiline, imipramine, or monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors, such as phenelzine, isocarboxazide, tranylcypromine or moclobemide.  They are 
used to treat depression.  
Anti-malarial or medicines used to treat infections responsible for sleeping sickness. 
Beta-blockers, such as propranolol, metoprolol, atenolol. They are used for angina and heart 
beat disorders. 
Any treatment for high blood pressure (for example thiazide diuretics [bendrofluazide], ACE 
inhibitors [captopril], calcium antagonists [nifedipine] and alpha-blockers [prazosin]).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also, if you are to have an operation or special X-ray investigation requiring an injection, first make 
sure that your doctor knows that you are receiving Ceplene.  Certain medicines used for an operation 
(for example neuromuscular blocking medicines and narcotic pain-killers) or dyes used for certain X-
rays may interfere with this medicine. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
There is no information about the use of Ceplene in pregnant women. Therefore, the treatment with 
Ceplene and IL-2 must not be used during pregnancy. 
For both men and women using this treatment, an effective method of contraception must be used as it 
is important not to conceive a child while being treated with Ceplene and IL-2. 
It is not known whether Ceplene appears in breast milk. Therefore Ceplene and IL-2 must not be used 
during breast-feeding. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use machines within one hour after receiving a Ceplene injection as it may reduce 
blood pressure causing dizziness, light-headedness and blurred vision. This can affect your ability to 
drive and operate machines. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  How to take Ceplene 
Always use Ceplene exactly as your doctor has instructed.  You should check with your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure about this. 
This treatment must be prescribed and supervised by a physician with knowledge of acute myeloid 
leukaemia. 
Recommended dose 
Since you will be using both IL-2 and Ceplene in a combined treatment, information about both 
dosages is provided: 
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) 
IL-2 is injected twice daily as a subcutaneous injection (in the layer of tissue just under the skin) 
1 to 3 minutes before the injection of Ceplene.  Each dose is calculated from your body weight. Your 
doctor will let you know how much it is and how to inject it.  
Ceplene 
The usual dose of Ceplene is 0.5 mL of solution twice a day given as a slow subcutaneous injection (in 
the layer of tissue just under the skin).   
Ceplene must be injected 1 to 3 minutes after IL-2. 
The two medicines, IL-2 and Ceplene, are both injected twice a day, with a minimum of 6 hours 
between injections. 
Treatment periods and treatment breaks 
The treatment with IL-2 and Ceplene lasts for 81 weeks and is cyclic.  
 
For the first 18 weeks: you will use IL-2 and Ceplene daily for 3 weeks, followed by a 3 week 
break (no treatment at all). 
For the following 63 weeks: you will use IL-2 and Ceplene daily for 3 weeks, followed by a  
6 week break (no treatment at all). 
 
Injecting Ceplene yourself 
Your doctor may decide that it would be more convenient for you to inject IL-2 and Ceplene yourself.   
Your doctor or nurse will show you how to inject yourself.  Do not try to inject yourself unless a 
qualified professional has trained you.   
It is recommended that you always have someone with you when injecting this medicine, such as an 
adult family member, friend or other care provider who could help you if you feel light-headed or 
faint.   
For further instructions on how to inject this medicine yourself, please read the section 
“INSTRUCTIONS FOR SELF-INJECTION OF CEPLENE” at the end of this leaflet. 
Your doctor may advise you that it is appropriate to use a syringe pump to regulate the injection of 
Ceplene.  If you are using a syringe pump you must refer to the instructions provided by the pump 
manufacturer and the training provided by your doctor or nurse. 
If you use more Ceplene than you should 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You must use this medicine exactly as it has been prescribed for you.  If you accidentally inject more 
than you were told to, contact your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
If you forget to take Ceplene 
Do not take any additional dose to make up for the forgotten doses.  Continue with the treatment as 
prescribed.  If you have missed one of your doses in a day, contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you stop taking Ceplene 
If you want to stop taking Ceplene you should try to consult your doctor in advance. Please inform 
your doctor immediately if you have stopped taking Ceplene by your own decision.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Side effects observed when Ceplene is used as described in this package leaflet: 
Hypotension (low blood pressure) may occur very commonly and may lead to light-headedness and 
fainting. If you notice a severe drop in blood pressure after use of Ceplene, please contact your 
physician immediately or at least prior to administration of further Ceplene injections. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections of the upper breathing (respiratory) tract 
Increase in the number of a certain type of white blood cells in the blood (eosinophilia) and 
decrease in the number of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) 
Headache and dizziness  
Altered taste (dysgeusia) 
Rapid heart beat (tachycardia) 
Flushing 
Cough, difficulty in breathing (dyspnoea) 
Nausea, indigestion (dyspepsia) and diarrhoea 
Rash 
Joint and muscle pain (arthralgia and myalgia) 
Inflamed granulated skin at the injection site, fatigue, fever (pyrexia), injection site redness, 
feeling hot, injection site reaction, itching at the injection site, flu-like symptoms, shivering 
(chills), injection site inflammation and pain.  
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decrease in the number of white blood cells (leucopenia) 
Decrease in the number of a certain type of white blood cells (neutropenia) 
Inflammation of the lung (pneumonia) 
Loss of appetite (anorexia) 
Difficulty in sleeping (insomnia) 
Feeling your own heart beat (palpitations) 
Nasal congestion  
Vomiting, pain in the upper belly (abdominal pain) and dry mouth 
Inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) 
Bloating of the belly (abdominal distension) 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abnormal redness of the skin (erythema), increased sweating (hyperhidrosis), night sweats and 
itching (pruritus) 
Pain in limbs and back pain 
Hives, bruising, rash and swelling at the injection site, weakness (asthenia) and chest pain 
Additional side effects observed when Ceplene was used in other types of treatment: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)  
 
 
 
 
 
Dry skin 
Anxiety 
Feeling of general discomfort or unease 
Accumulation of fluid in the body especially in the legs (oedema) 
Loss of weight 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
 
 
Sensation of spinning (vertigo) 
Your body does not make enough thyroxine, a body chemical called a hormone 
(hypothyroidism) 
Decrease in the number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
Drying-out of the body (dehydration) 
Depression 
Tingling, prickling or numbness of the skin (paraesthesia) 
Hot flushes 
 
 
 
 
 
  Wheezing 
 
 
Constipation, swollen stomach, inflamed mouth 
Pain and formation of extra tissue in the skin around the injection site 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ceplene  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use Ceplene after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not freeze. 
The solution should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration.  The solution must be clear and colourless. 
Medicines must not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste.  Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required.  These measures will help to protect the environment. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.
Content of the pack and other information
What Ceplene contains 


The active substance is histamine dihydrochloride.  One vial contains 0.5 mg histamine
dihydrochloride in 0.5 mL solution.
The other ingredients are water for injections and sodium chloride, and it may also contain
sodium hydroxide and/or hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment.
What Ceplene looks like and contents of the pack 
Ceplene is a clear, colourless liquid.  It is provided in a glass vial with a grey rubber stopper and a blue 
peel flip off aluminium tamper evident over seal. 
Ceplene is available in pack sizes of 14 vials. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Laboratoires Delbert
49 Rue Rouelle
75015 Paris
France
Manufacturer 
Labiana Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
C/ Casanova, 27-31 
08757 Corbera de Llobregat (Barcelona) 
Spain 
This leaflet was last revised in 
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to the 
rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicine. The 
European Medicines Agency will review any new information on this medicine every year and this 
package leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicine Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SELF-INJECTION OF CEPLENE 
This section contains information on how to give yourself an injection of Ceplene. 
For general information about the dosage and how to use Ceplene and IL-2, please see section 3, 
“How to use Ceplene”.   
Read the following instructions carefully.  It is important that you do not try to give yourself the 
injection unless you have received special training from your doctor or nurse.  If you are not sure 
about how to give yourself the injection or you have any questions, please ask your doctor or nurse for 
help.  
If you feel faint or dizzy during or after the injections, tell your doctor before injecting your next dose.  
Your doctor may want to increase the time you take to complete your injection, or change your dose.   
29 
You will have to inject Ceplene and IL-2 twice a day by subcutaneous injection (in the layer of tissue 
just under the skin), according to the directions provided by your doctor.   
Always inject IL-2 first.  Ceplene must be injected 1 to 3 minutes later.   
Ceplene must not be mixed with any other products and must not be diluted. 
Your doctor will explain to you how to prepare and inject IL-2. 
It is recommended that you always have someone with you when injecting Ceplene, such as an adult 
family member, friend, or other care provider to help you if you feel light-headed or faint.   
PREPARATION FOR INJECTION OF CEPLENE  
To prepare a dose of Ceplene you will need the following:  
 
 
 
1 vial of Ceplene solution (0.5 mL) 
1 sterile graduated syringe with needle 
1 alcohol wipe  
Method 
1  Take 1 vial out of the carton.  Check the expiry date (EXP) on the vial label.   
2.  Do not use if the date has passed the last day of the month shown. 
3.  Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water. 
4.  Double check the vial label to make sure you are using the correct medicine.  The solution must be 
clear and colourless.  If not, use another vial and inform your doctor or pharmacist. 
5.  Remove the plastic cap from the vial, exposing the stopper with the inner rubber circle. 
6.  Use an alcohol wipe to clean the rubber part of the stopper.  Do not touch the stopper with your 
hands. 
7.  Pick up the sterile syringe.  Notice the numbered marks on it.  Each mark (0.1, 0.2, 0.3, etc.) 
represents one-tenth of a millilitre (0.1 mL).  With the needle cover on, pull back the plunger and 
draw air into the syringe to the level (number of millilitres) instructed by your doctor.  See 
Figure 1. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
8.  Pull the needle cover straight off.  With the vial standing on a flat surface, insert the needle straight 
through the rubber stopper into the vial. 
9.  Push the plunger of the syringe down to inject air into the vial.  See Figure 2. 
Figure 2 
10 Holding both the vial and the syringe, turn the vial upside down.  Adjust the syringe so that the tip of 
the needle is slightly above the rubber stopper but still within the solution.  See Figure 3. 
Figure 3 
11.   Slowly pull back the plunger to draw the solution into the syringe, filling it to the level (number 
of millilitres) instructed by your doctor.  If bubbles appear in the syringe, push the solution 
slowly back into the vial and withdraw the solution again. 
12   Take the needle out of the vial.  Do not lay the syringe down or let the needle touch anything. 
13.   Replace the cover on the needle.  Place the syringe on a clean flat surface. 
14.   There may be a small amount of solution left in the vial. This is to be returned to the pharmacist 
for disposal.  
  NOTE: The vial of Ceplene contains an overfill to facilitate the dose extraction of a single 
0.5 mL dose. 
15.   Double check the syringe to make sure that you have withdrawn the correct amount.  
16.   Take the syringe and follow the “INSTRUCTIONS FOR INJECTION” information below.  
INSTRUCTIONS FOR INJECTION 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will usually inject two doses of 0.5 mL in a day, unless your doctor has prescribed a lower dose 
for you. 
For the injection you will need the following:  
 
1 prepared syringe for your IL-2 injection (refer to the IL-2 package leaflet and your  
doctor’s dose instructions). 
1 prepared syringe containing Ceplene. 
Alcohol wipe(s). 
A timer, clock or watch with a second hand. 
A puncture-proof container so you can dispose of used syringes safely. 
 
 
 
 
Method 
1.  Find a comfortable, well-lit place to sit and where you can lie back.  Place the pre-prepared 
syringes containing IL-2, Ceplene and an opened alcohol wipe where you can reach them.  For 
your safety it is very important that you are sitting where you can lean back or lie flat when you 
perform the injections. 
2.  Inject IL-2 as you have been instructed. 
3.  Wait 1 to 3 minutes. 
4.  Decide where you will inject Ceplene.  You may choose the inner or outer thighs, arms or stomach.  
Ceplene and IL-2 must not be injected into the same region.  For example, if you inject IL-2 in 
the left arm, you could inject Ceplene into the left or right thigh, the stomach, or the right arm.  
Always vary the site that you inject.  For possible injection sites, see Figure 4. 
Figure 4 
5.  Make sure that the area of the skin you select is exposed.  Use an alcohol wipe to clean it.  Allow 
the area to dry for 10 seconds. 
6.  Pinch up a section of the cleaned skin between your thumb and forefinger, without squeezing it.  
See Figure 5.  
  Figure 5 
7.  Hold the needle either vertically (90°) or at a 45° angle to the skin and insert it under the skin as far 
as it will go in one quick motion.  The needle must be inserted under the skin, but not into any 
blood vessels below the skin.  See Figure 6. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
8.  Slightly pull back the plunger.  If blood appears, do not inject Ceplene because the needle has 
entered a blood vessel.  Withdraw and discard the syringe as instructed.  Obtain new supplies and 
start the procedure over again, even if 3 minutes have passed after injection of IL-2. 
9.  Notice the numbered marks on each syringe.  Each mark (0.1, 0.2, 0.3, etc.) represents one-tenth of 
a millilitre (0.1 mL). 
10. Push down the syringe plunger and inject one-tenth of a millilitre (0.1 mL) every minute, or more   
slowly if instructed to do so by your doctor. See Figure 7.  
Figure 7 
11. Never inject Ceplene any faster or all at once. 
12. When the syringe is empty, remove the needle from your skin. 
13. Apply gentle pressure with the alcohol wipe over the injection site without rubbing it. 
14. Remain seated or lying down for 20 minutes after injecting Ceplene. 
15. Dispose of the syringe in the puncture-proof container as instructed. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
