SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Ceprotin. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  June  2002.    For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B 
1. 
Introduction 
CEPROTIN is a plasma-derived protein C concentrates. CEPROTIN is indicated in purpura fulminans 
and  coumarin  induced  skin  necrosis  in  patients  with  severe  congenital  protein  C  deficiency.  
Furthermore  CEPROTIN  is  indicated  for  short-term  prophylaxis  in  patients  with  severe  congenital 
protein C deficiency if one or more of the following conditions are met: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
surgery or invasive therapy is imminent 
while initiating coumarin therapy 
when coumarin therapy alone is not sufficient 
when coumarin therapy is not feasible. 
Protein  C  (PC)  is  synthesised  in  the  liver  as  a  vitamin  K-dependent  plasma  protein.  PC  is  a  62,000 
molecular weight glycoprotein that circulates in the blood as an inactive zymogen. Thrombin rapidly 
activates  PC  after  binding  to  thrombomodulin,  a  membrane  receptor  protein  found  on  endothelial 
cells. The PC pathway provides a natural mechanism to control the coagulation system and to prevent 
excessive clotting. In individuals with a deficiency of PC the defect in the control mechanism leads to 
increased  coagulation  activation,  resulting  in  thrombin  generation  and  ultimately  intravascular  clot 
formation with thrombosis. 
An  inherited  PC  deficiency  is  autosomal  in  nature  and  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  venous 
thrombosis.  Phenotypically  two  types  have  been  described:  type  1  in  which  both  antigenic  and 
functional levels are reduced and type 2 in which functional levels are reduced to a greater extent than 
antigenic  levels.  There  also  appear  to  be  both  dominant  and  recessive  forms  of  PC  deficiency. 
Heterozygous, clinically “overt” PC  deficiency (dominant) has  a prevalence of 1/16,000-1/36,000 in 
the  general  population  (Cooper    &  Tuddenahm  ,  Br  Med  Bull  1994;  50:833-50).  An  asymptomatic 
(recessive)  “covered”  form  in  which  PC  activity  levels  are  consistent  with  a  heritable  heterozygous 
deficiency  state  may  occur  in  up  to  1/200  of  the  general  population  (Miletich  et  al.,  N  Engl  J  Med 
1987;  317:991-6).  Homozygous  type  1  PC  deficiency  is  rare,  with  only  17  cases  recorded  in  an 
international data base of mutations (Reitsma et al., Thromb Haemost 1995; 73:876-9) and only about 
20  further  cases  reported  in  the  literature    (Baliga  et  al.,  Eur  J  Pediatr  1995;  154:  534-8).  Most 
commonly homozygotes present with purpura fulminans in the neonatal period. These infants have PC 
levels less than 0.10U/ml. A small number of severe PC deficiencies do not present purpura fulminans 
at birth, but contract severe (venous) thromboembolic disease during childhood or early adult life. PC 
levels in these patients are usually measurable and range from 0.02 to 0.23 U/ml.  
There  are  two  main  clinical  features  of  severe  PC  deficiency:  purpura  fulminans  in  homozygous 
newborns  and  skin  necrosis  when  oral  anticoagulant  therapy  is  started.  This  latter  complication  is 
caused by a temporary procoagulant imbalance in the early phase of use of vitamin K antagonists. The 
pro-thrombotic state is caused by the persistence of high circulating levels of procoagulant vitamin K-
dependent factors with a long half-life, which are no longer opposed by the rapidly falling levels of PC 
with a short half-life. 
The clinical signs of purpura fulminans are the result of capillary thrombosis and interstitial bleeding 
and  consist  of  ecchymotic  skin  lesions  that,  if  untreated,  rapidly  develop  into  haemorrhagic  bullae 
with subsequent gangrenous necrosis, which may necessitate amputation. These lesions appear mainly 
on the  extremities  but also on the buttocks, abdomen, scrotum,  and scalp. Thrombosis  may occur in 
larger  vessels  and  multi-organ  failure  develops,  with  severe  disseminated  intravascular  coagulation 
(DIC). If the condition is left untreated, the progression of the thrombotic lesions results in blindness, 
severe brain damage, multi-organ failure, and death. 
1/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Though  requiring  intravenous  access  and  frequent  infusions  due  to  PC’s  short  half-life,  replacement 
therapy appears the obvious approach in the acute manifestations of the disease and in the short-term 
secondary prevention of thromboembolic episodes. Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) has been used, but the 
development  of  hyperproteinemia,  hypertension,  loss  of  venous  access  and  the  risk  of  exposure  to 
viral  agents  limit  its  administration  on  a  frequent  basis.  Better  results  are  expected  with  PC 
concentrates. 
CEPROTIN  is  a  stable,  monoclonal  antibody  purified  concentrate  of  PC  zymogen.  CEPROTIN  is 
manufactured  from  pooled  human  plasma  by  means  of  immunoaffinity  chromatography  using  an 
immobilized  murine  monoclonal  antibody.  Two  independent  viral  inactivation  procedures  are 
incorporated in the manufacturing process. 
The  product  is  supplied  as  a  freeze-dried  substance  in  single  dose  vials  together  with  the  necessary 
amount  of  sterilised  water  for  injection.  The  reconstituted  solution  is  intended  for  intravenous 
injection and is presented in two sizes, 500 and 1000 IU. 
The Applicant did not at first intend to develop the product commercially. A program of pre-clinical 
testing was carried out to investigate the safety of the product. However, in response to requests from 
physicians, the  Applicant began supplying the product for compassionate  use. The Applicant  argues 
that it was impossible to organise prospective, large-scale, controlled clinical trials, since: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Homozygous or double heterozygous PC deficiency is extremely rare; 
Most subjects are severely ill at the time of diagnosis; 
The small patient group is comprised primarily of small children and babies; 
Treatment options are limited; 
The  need  to  measure  PC  levels  for  dosing  would  interfere  with  any  blinding  of  study 
medication. 
Since the efficacy/safety profile of this product has not been fully established yet, its use is deemed 
relatively  safe  and  effective  only  in  the  severe  clinical  conditions  for  which  it  is  indicated.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is BAXTER AG, Austria. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The  product  is  supplied  as  a  freeze-dried  substance  in  single  dose  vials  together  with  the  necessary 
amount  of  sterilised  water  for  injection.  The  reconstituted  solution  is  intended  for  intravenous 
injection and is presented as, 500 and 1000 IU. The proposed composition of the medicinal product is 
as follows:  
Unit and/or  
percentage formula 
Function 
Reference to 
standard 
I 
Active Ingredient 
Protein C 
500 IU 
1000 IU 
Total Protein 
42,5 mg 
85 mg 
Thereof: 
Anticoagulatory 
proenzyme 
Active Ingredient and 
stabilizer 
WHO 
Human Albumin 
40 mg 
80 mg 
Stabilizer 
Ph.Eur. 
2/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Sodium Chloride 
Trisodium Citrate 
dihydrate 
44 mg 
22 mg 
88 mg 
44 mg 
Achieving isotonia 
Stabilizer 
Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
II 
Vial containing Solvent 
Sterilized water for 
injections 
5 ml 
10 ml 
Solvent  
Ph.Eur. 
The  product  is  filled either with nominally 500  IU into  vials  of  neutral  glass of hydrolytic type  I or 
with nominally 1000 IU into vials of surface-treated soda lime silica glass of hydrolytic type II. The 
vials  are  closed  with  stoppers  of  chlorobutyl  rubber.  Both  vials  and  stoppers  comply  with  the 
respective Ph. Eur. requirements. 
CEPROTIN is to be dissolved in 5 ml and 10 ml sterilised water for injections, respectively. 
Active substance 
Source material 
The  source  material  for  the  production  of  PC  Bulk  Solution  is  human  plasma  complying  with  the 
requirements of the monograph “Human Plasma for Fractionation” (Ph. Eur.: 0853). The information 
concerning  the  source  material  is  submitted  in  a  Plasma  Master  File  (PMF).  This  PMF  is  in 
compliance with EC Guideline III/5272/94 “Contribution to Part II of the structure of the dossier for 
applications  for  marketing  authorization  –  Control  of  starting  materials  for  the  production  of  blood 
derivatives”.  
General  information  has  been  provided  on  remuneration  of  donors,  number  of  donation  centres, 
internal audits as well as audits performed by Baxter and inspections by competent authorities.  
Donor  selection  criteria  described  are  in  accordance  with  WHO  and  Council  of  Europe 
recommendations as well as with national regulations.  
Plasma is collected in Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Sweden and USA. Names and addresses of  
the  plasma  suppliers  are  provided.  Plasmapheresis  and/or  transfusion  services  are  controlled  and 
inspected  by  competent  authorities.  Baxter’s  personnel  audit  plasma  suppliers  at  least  once  in  24 
months. 
The epidemiological data of blood-borne infections are presented in very clear and detailed summary 
tables. 
Assurance is given that centres supplying plasma to the applicant do not collect from populations at 
high risk for blood-borne infections. The applicant has provided the epidemiological data on plasma 
collected at the donation centres in Europe and USA. Every individual plasma donation is tested for 
the  absence  of  HBsAg,  of  HIV-1/2  Ab,  and  HCV  Ab  by  using  officially  approved  test  kits.  Any 
donation not meeting the test requirements is discarded. A list of the test kits used for screening the 
donation is provided. The applicant notes that plasma suppliers agree in the Standard Contract to use 
only test kits, which are FDA or PEI, licensed or licensed by the health authorities in France or UK. 
Moreover,  all  laboratories  routinely  take  part  in  proficiency  studies  to  prove and  assure  accuracy  of 
the results. The successful participation in such proficiency programs has to be shown to the applicant 
annually by each laboratory.  
The applicant states that in addition to current recommendations and regulations for plasma collection, 
a  Plasma  Safety  Program  has  been  introduced.  The  main  features  of  this  Program  are  the  donor 
applicant quarantine program and the inventory hold of donations. 
The applicant states its ability to trace the path of any plasma donation to the final product and vice 
versa. It is mentioned that the applicant will be notified of any defective plasma by the donation centre 
through a Reporting Program. Moreover, the criteria governing product recall has also been provided.  
3/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each plasma pool is tested for the absence of HBsAg, HIV-1/2 Ab and HCV Ab by ELISA. For this 
purpose, only test kits approved by FDA or PEI are used. The validation reports have been provided. 
All  plasma  pools  are  also  tested  for  viral  nucleic  acids  of  HIV-1/2,  HBV  and  HCV  by  a  PCR  test, 
which was set up and validated by the applicant. The validation of the NAT systems covers the main 
relevant points with satisfactory results. The implementation of the HCV NAT is in compliance with 
the  European  regulation  (CPMP/BWP/390/97).  The  results  of  the  validation  studies  meet  the 
requirements  of  the  European  OMCL  Network  guideline.  The  protein  content  and  the  bioburden  of 
plasma pools are routinely monitored. 
A list of blood bags and plasma pooling bottles, with information on anticoagulants and CE marking, 
is provided as recommended by CPMP document III/5272/94. 
Assurance  is  given  that  for  all  plasma  shipments  to  the  applicant,  the  temperature  limits  for  storage 
and for plasma transport comply with the Ph. Eur. monograph “Human Plasma for Fractionation”.  
The average storage time for plasma is 6 months from the date of donation; the maximum storage time 
is 3 years. 
The  standard  contract  between  the  Manufacturer  and  plasma  collection  establishments  has  been 
attached. Verification that the contract is applied in all centres has been provided and a commitment 
that all plasma suppliers have confirmed the contents of the contract has been included in the dossier. 
Purification 
Process validation 
Protein  C  concentrate  is  manufactured  essentially  by  chromatographic  procedures  including 
immunoaffinity  chromatography  on  solid  phase  monoclonal  antibody.  Cleaning  of  the  columns  was 
properly  validated.  The  production  process  leading  to  a  PC-enriched  fraction  and  the  subsequent 
purification steps leading to the production of protein C concentrate bulks are described.  
The flow charts are included in the dossier submitted. 
Briefly,  cryosupernatant  is  obtained  from  frozen  plasma  and  applied  to  an  ion  exchange  gel.  After 
extensive  washing,  the  matrix  is  eluted  and  the  eluate  is  submitted  to  an  ultrafiltration  step.  The 
ultrafiltrate is then treated with Polysorbate 80, diluted and applied onto an ion exchange gel column. 
PC–enriched  fraction  is  eluted  and  submitted  to  further  purification  steps.  The  applicant  states  that 
these initial manufacturing steps are identical to those used for the production of IMMUNINE, a high-
purity Factor IX Concentrate manufactured by Baxter AG. 
The  main  purification  step  is  an  immunoaffinity  chromatography  using  immobilised  murine 
monoclonal  antibody  against  PC.  Further  ion  exchange  chromatography  steps  are  implemented  to 
remove any murine IgG as well as other contaminants. After addition of human albumin as stabilizer, 
the  bulk  is  subjected  to  a  two-step  vapour  heat  treatment  for  virus  inactivation,  followed  by  ion 
exchange chromatography. 
The  Applicant  provides  a  list  of  the  in-process  controls  performed  at  each  step  of  production  of  the 
active  ingredient  to  assure  compliance  with  defined  operating  parameters.  In  addition,  process 
parameters  related  to  product  quality,  such  as  purity,  specific  activity,  are  monitored  throughout  the 
process. 
Specifications were defined for the intermediates to ensure consistent quality of the product. 
The  release  test  program  for  PC  Bulk  Solution  includes  the  following  tests:  PC,  protein  content, 
specific  PC  activity,  activated  PC,  murine  IgG  and  Polysorbate  80.  Current  analytical  results  have 
been provided. 
A list of the major equipment used in the manufacturing steps performed is provided.  
Rooms are mainly classified according to European GMP requirements.  
Specifications of the active substance 
The specifications for the bulk material have been set and are appended to this assessment report. 
4/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
They  are  based  on  total  protein  content,  PC  activity,  specific  activity,  activated  PC  activity,  sodium 
chloride  and  trisodium  citrate-dihydrate  content,  pyrogens  and  mouse  IgG  content.  Data  on  five 
batches are given. 
Batch to batch consistency 
The  validation  data  provided  give  consistency  of  the  production  steps  and  the  suitability  of  the 
selected in-process controls. 
Other ingredients 
Most  of  the  excipients  and  auxiliaries  used  for  the  production  of  PC  Bulk  Solution,  including  those 
used  only  in  the  purification  process,  comply  with  pharmacopoeial  requirements.  Only  the 
Antithrombin  III-heparin  complex,  the  ion  exchange  gels  and  a  few  reagents  are  not  described  in  a 
pharmacopoeia. 
For the non-pharmacopoeial reagents, only high-purity or analytical grade chemicals are used, which 
are  supplied  by  the  manufacturer  with  guaranteed  specifications  and  batch-specific  certificates  of 
analyses. 
The  various  chromatography  gels  have  well-defined  structures  and  are  especially  suited  for  the 
separation  of  proteins.  In  addition  to  the  certificates  of  analysis  submitted  by  the  respective 
manufacturer, the applicant tests them for gel capacity and/or separation performance. 
Antithrombin III-heparin complex is a freeze-dried concentrate, prepared by Baxter AG by a patented 
process.  For  virus  inactivation,  the  intermediate  product  (antithrombin  III)  is  subjected  to  a  heat 
treatment  in  aqueous  solution.  The  applicant  states  that  the  starting  plasma  comply  with  the  same 
requirements  as  the  source  material  for  PC  Bulk  Solution.  In–house  specifications  have  been 
established  for  the  antithrombin  III-heparin  complex  in  accordance  with  the  pharmacopoeial 
requirements  for  blood  products.  A  dossier  concerning  antithrombin  III  has  been  provided  with  the 
responses  of  the  company  to  the  CPMP  list  of  questions  including  information  on  the  composition, 
method of preparation, control of starting materials, control test on intermediate products, control test 
on the finished product and stability data. Antithrombin III used during production is still in its shelf 
life at the end of the manufacturing process of CEPROTIN. 
Human  albumin,  sodium  chloride,  and  sodium  citrate•2H2O  are  used  as  excipients  in  the 
pharmaceutical formulation of CEPROTIN. The applicant indicates that all of them are in compliance 
with the relevant monographs of European Pharmacopoeia. Baxter AG manufactures human albumin 
from  human  plasma  that  complies  with  the  same  requirements  that  apply  to  production  of  PC  Bulk 
Solution.  The  manufacturing  method  of  human  albumin  includes  a  virus  inactivation.  A  dossier 
concerning  albumin  has  been  provided  with  the  responses  of  the  company  to  the  CPMP  list  of 
questions  including  information  on  the  composition,  method  of  preparation,  control  of  starting 
materials, control test on intermediate products, control test on the finished product and stability data. 
Albumin  used  during  production  is  still  in  its  shelf  life  at  the  end  of  the  manufacturing  process  of 
CEPROTIN and the expiry date of albumin used, as excipient is not earlier than that of the finished 
product. 
Product development and finished product 
Product development 
The applicant indicates that, during the development of the product, modifications were made to the 
original  manufacturing  process  (method  I).  This  method  included  two  virus-inactivation  steps  based 
on  vapour  heat  treatment  while  in  the  current  manufacturing  process  (method  II)  the  first  treatment 
employs Polysorbate 80 and the second one is a vapour heat treatment. In addition, method II includes 
five  more  ion-exchange  chromatography  steps.  In  both  methods  the  purification  of  the  product  was 
performed with the immobilised monoclonal antibody. However, in method I mAb was mouse ascites 
derived, whereas in the current method mAb is cell culture derived. 
5/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Clinical trial formula 
Some of the earlier clinical investigations were performed using protein C concentrate manufactured 
by  method  I.  The  pharmaceutical  documentation  only  refers  to  method  II.  The  applicant  data  allow 
comparison that the final product release specifications are the same for both products. 
Manufacturing process 
The  whole  process  is  performed  in  Baxter  AG,  Industriestrasse  131,  Benatzkygasse  2-6, 
Industriestrasse 72 and Smolagasse, Vienna, Austria. A clear flow sheet of the manufacturing process 
has been provided.  
In-process controls (IPCs) and acceptance criteria as well as test methods are given. The IPCs appear 
to control the process appropriately. 
For  the  formulation  of  protein  C  concentrate,  vapour  heated  PC  bulk  solution  is  used.  One  batch  of 
vapour-heated  solution  (3-12  kg)  is  manufactured  from  a  total  of  10,000  –  40,000  litres  of  plasma, 
processed as 1,600 – 1,000 litres pools.  
Flow chart of the whole manufacturing process is provided in the dossier.  
Starting with 6 kg vapour heated bulk solution the final bulk solution has the following composition: 
Protein C 
Human albumin  
Sodium chloride 
Sodium citrate   
105,000 IU/L 
8 g/L 
8.8 g/L 
4.4 g/L 
The pH is adjusted to 7.0 ± 0.1 by addition of 2% hydrochloric acid or 2% sodium hydroxide solution. 
After sterile filtration the final bulk solution is filled in 12 ml vials of 500 or 1000 IU/vials. 
Cleaning and treatment of glass vials  and rubber stoppers are described. The product is then freeze-
dried. The freeze-drying process is described and validation provided.  
In process controls for all steps are clearly reported and acceptance criteria are given. 
The applicant indicates that GMP are always followed. 
Finished product specification 
The finished product specification is appended to this assessment report.  
The  test  program  and  the  specifications  for  the  final  product  have  been  defined  in  analogy  to 
pharmacopoeial  requirements  for  other  human  coagulation  factor  concentrates.  They  are  considered 
adequate and they include identity, potency, excipients and safety of the preparation as well as general 
pharmaceutical tests. 
The results of three batches of each filling size show consistency of the manufacturing process and full 
compliance with the product specifications. 
Stability data 
Stability of intermediates 
Stability of intermediates has been proven. However, equivalence of the containers used in production 
and in stability studies has still to be provided. 
Finished product stability 
Based on the results provided on 3 batches of each filling size, the data support the proposed shelf-life 
of two years when stored cool between +2 oC and +8 oC.  
Stability reconstituted product 
According  to  the  SPC  the  product  should  be  administered  immediately.  Stability  data  after 
reconstitution allow the solution to stand for 3 hour at room temperature. 
6/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunoaffinity matrix 
Monoclonal antibody   
A  selective  immune  affinity  chromatography  step  is  included  in  the  purification  process  of 
CEPROTIN.  Development,  characterisation,  fermentation  and  purification  of  this  monoclonal 
antibody are described in sufficient detail. 
The column is coupled with a monoclonal antibody specific for Protein C. This antibody, was obtained 
by fusion of myeloma cell line with splenocytes from mice immunised with purified Protein C. Mice 
were routinely tested every six months for Group I and Group II viruses. Cell banks were prepared by 
a  contract  manufacturer,  Polymun  Scientific,  Vienna,  and  mainly  characterised  in  a  contract 
laboratories, Q1 Biotech Ltd, Glasgow, Scotland. 
Production of mAb was performed on a campaign in 1992/93 at pilot scale and 1996 upscaled. Due to 
changes introduced between the two campaigns, only the two batches produced in 1996 were used for 
validation purposes. Data submitted by the applicant support the comparability of the mAb obtained 
with the two processes.  
The cell bank system has been fully characterised for the presence of viruses and adventitious agents. 
For production of mAb, a repeated batch system is used up to a total fermentation volume of 500 L. A 
Post Production Cell Bank was also established and characterised. 
The manufacture of the monoclonal antibody is sufficiently described. 
Compliance with TSE guideline 
As  mentioned  in  the  TSE  guideline,  MCB  are  exempted  from  the  requirements  for  Certification  of 
suitability of monographs of the Eur. Ph.  
Currently, no more monoclonal antibody is available where FCS from Salzman Inc., Iowa, USA, was 
used to establish the MWCB, for which a Certificate of suitability cannot be provided. Furthermore, 
no  more  CEPROTIN  lots  are  available  which  have  been  manufactured  using  this  monoclonal 
antibody. 
For  the  establishment  of  the  MWCB  for  the  production  of  the  next  monoclonal  antibody  lot,  the 
company  will  use  FCS  from  Hyclone  Laboratories  INC,  Utah,  and  USA.  For  which  a  certificate  of 
suitability is available. 
The manufacturing process will fully comply with all relevant guidelines regarding TSE risk. 
Furthermore, in order increase the overall assurance of safety of CEPROTIN with respect to TSE risk, 
the applicant has the intention to submit a type II variation to introduce a change in the manufacturing 
process of the mAb used in the immunoaffinity chromatography purification step of CEPROTIN. At 
present  the  applicant  has  submitted  an  application  for  scientific  advice  on  whether  the  Company’s 
investigation program and data base outlined above would be sufficient to show the equivalence of the 
monoclonal antibody produced by the current process and the new proposed, where the MWCB, to be 
used in the manufacture of the future mAb batches is planned to be stored in protein free medium. 
Viral safety and safety with respect to TSEs 
Five  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  Protein  C  were  evaluated  for  their  capacity  for  virus 
removal/inactivation:  Polysorbate  80  treatment,  anion  exchange  chromatography  I  (non  binding 
mode), anion exchange chromatography II (binding mode), immune affinity chromatography and the 
vapour  heat  treatment.  Virus  validation  studies  were  performed  with  HIV-1  and  hepatitis-A-Virus 
(HAV)  as  well  as  the  model  viruses  for  hepatitis  C  Virus  (HCV)  (Bovine  Viral  Diarrhoea  Virus 
(BVDV)  and  Tick  Borne  Encephalitis  Virus  (TBEV)),  the  model  for  human  herpes  viruses 
(Pseudorabies Virus (PRV)) and a model for the human parvovirus B19 (Minute Mice Virus (MMV)). 
The selection of the viruses corresponds with the requirements (CPMP/BWP/269/95). The results of 
the virus validation studies are summarised in the table. 
The  manufacturing process of Protein C contains several steps, which contribute to  the  virus safety: 
the heat treatment, the treatment with Polysorbate80 and the immune affinity chromatography.  
7/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Results of the virus validation studies 
BVDV/TBEV  PRV 
HAV 
MVM 
HIV-1 
Reduction factor [log10] 
runB 
runA 
>6.4 
 >6.2 
n.a. 
n.a. 
runA 
>3.8 
n.a. 
runB 
>4.8 
n.a. 
runA 
<1.0 
1.4 
runB 
<1.0 
<1.0 
runA 
<1.1 
n.a 
runB 
<1.0 
n.a. 
runA 
<1.0 
1.3 
runB 
<1.1 
<1.0 
Polysorbate 80 treatment 
Ion exchange 
chromatography  
(non binding mode)(*) 
Ion exchange  
chromatography 
(binding mode)(**) 
Immune affinity 
chromatography 
Vapour heat treatment 
>7.0 
>6.0 
(*)Ion exchange chromatography I seems to be ineffective for virus removal.  
(**)The validation report for the  ion exchange chromatography II is incomplete and insufficient. As a result, the 
reduction factors for this step which are listed in the table cannot be accepted.  
<1.0 
>6.5 
<1.0 
>7.3 
>5.7 
>5.7 
>5.3 
>7.2 
>5.2 
>6.0 
>6.0 
1.5 
3.1 
2.2 
2.6 
1.3 
6.2 
4.6 
4.9 
3.4 
5.7 
3.3 
2.6 
The most important step for the virus safety of Protein C is the two step vapour heat treatment (10 h at 
60°C  and  1  h  at  80°C):  HIV-1,  BVDV,  PRV  and  HAV  were  inactivated  below  the  detection  limit. 
Parvovirus, MMV, was not inactivated.  
The Polysorbate 80 treatment is effective for HIV-1 and BVDV but cannot inactivate PRV. However, 
the value of this step for other viruses must not be presumed from the HIV-1 and BVDV data and has 
to be clarified individually for each virus. Consistency of the Polysorbate 80 concentration has been 
demonstrated by analytical data of 10 production batches.  Data demonstrate a sufficient high level of 
virus inactivation during the sanitisation procedure using 0.2 M NaOH. 
The immune affinity chromatography has some effectiveness for removal of HIV-1, TBEV, PRV and 
HAV. Reduction factors between >5.7 log10 and 3.1 log10  have been reported. However, the company 
should  complete  the  down  scaling  report  and  investigate  this  procedure  further  in  order  that  the 
reliability of the above listed reduction factors can be confirmed; especially the partitioning of HIV-1 
and the differences in the removal of TBEV in the two runs should be clarified.  
The sanitisation of the immune affinity column is performed by treatment with 0.75 M Guanidine.HCl 
as  the  antibody  is  sensitive  to  NaOH-treatment.  The  virus  data  demonstrate  that  viruses  cannot 
completely  be  inactivated  and  viruses  may  in  principle  accumulate  on  the  column.  However,  as  the 
antibody is sensitive against a more robust column regeneration process, a change in the sanitisation 
process will not  be required. The  company should be aware  of the risk of virus accumulation in the 
column  and  should  consider  this  in  setting  limits  for  the  re-use  of  the  column.  The  applicant  will 
investigate the robustness of virus removal by the immune affinity chromatography and a commitment 
has been given to submit the study results. 
According  to  the  virus  validation  reports,  the  process  has  no  capacity  for  removal/inactivation  of 
parvovirus. In order to avoid Protein C contamination with Parvovirus B19, the exclusion of viremic 
high-titre  from  the  manufacturing  process  of  CEPROTIN,  identified  by  PCR  screening,  would  be 
appropriate  to  improve  the  viral  safety  of  CEPROTIN  with  regard  B19.  However,  this  is  a  general 
problem of many coagulation factor concentrates on the market.  
Summarising,  the  existing  documentation  provide  reasonable  confidence  that  the  viral  safety  is 
comparable with other products, which are on the market.  
Safety assessment of other components used for manufacture 
The process contains some additives, human albumin, human antithrombin III and porcine heparin.  
The antithrombin III is used so early in the Protein C manufacturing process that inactivation/removal 
stages  for  Protein  C  also  apply  to  it.  There  is  no  concern  about  the  use  of  antithrombin  III  for  the 
manufacture of Protein C.  
Albumin is manufactured according to the “classical” ethanol fractionation and pasteurised, 60°C for 
10 h, as required by the Ph Eur. The safety of albumin corresponds therefore with other products on 
the market and there are no concerns about its use for Protein C.  
The  company  has  described  the  manufacturing  process  and  provided  an  appropriate  risk  assessment 
for heparin.  
8/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the immune affinity chromatography the monoclonal antibody is used. The antibody is in principle 
produced  and  controlled  according  to  the  current  requirements  (CPMP/ICH/95/95).  The  treatment 
with  guanidine.HCl,  which  is  performed  before  coupling  the  antibody  to  the  resin,  was  investigated 
and  showed  some  effectiveness  for  inactivation  of  the  model  retrovirus.  There  is  no  virus  safety 
concern about the use of this antibody for the immune affinity chromatography.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of the product is considered satisfactory on the basis of the submitted data and the agreed 
follow-up measures. In particular, viral safety measures include appropriate donor selection, testing of 
donations  and  plasma  pools  for  viral  markers,  and  viral  inactivation/removal  procedures  in  the 
manufacturing process. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The anticoagulant activity of activated protein C is easily demonstrated in in vitro clotting assays in 
which the addition of activated protein C [APC] to plasma produces a dose-dependent prolongation of 
clotting time. This is well demonstrated in the literature and probably reported best by Okajima et al. 
(1990),  which  showed  a  dose-dependent  effect  on  the  APTT  of  human  plasma  in  the  presence  of  a 
purified  human  protein  C  concentrate  activated  by  snake  venom  as  well  as  a  purified  thrombin-
activated APC preparation. Other published reports on the anticoagulant activity of activated protein C 
include  in  vitro  studies  by  Comp  and  Esmon  (1979);  and  Marlar  et  al.  (1982).  In  vivo  experiments 
have also shown that infusion of species-specific APC in canine and bovine animal models prolongs 
clotting time in a dose-related manner as predicted from the in vitro experiments (Comp and Esmon, 
1981; Comp et al., 1982). 
It is difficult to evaluate the relevance of a species for preclinical testing of Protein C Concentrate on 
the basis of whether the test material is pharmacologically active due to the expression of the receptor 
because of the way in which the protein C anticoagulant pathway functions. 
A  further  difficulty  in  evaluating  the  relevance  of  a  species  for  preclinical  testing  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate is due to differences between humans and animals in phenotypical expression of severe 
protein C deficiency. A murine protein C knockout model (which in this case was not accessible) was 
first described by Jalbert (Jalbert et al., 1998). Mice with a total deficiency of protein C were produced 
from cross breeding between healthy protein C heterozygotes. Homozygous neonates with null protein 
C were morphologically normal, but died within 24 hours from severe thrombosis, demonstrating that 
the absence of protein C is not compatible with survival. This emphasizes the vital anticoagulant role 
of protein C in maintenance of homeostasis and survival. However in contrast to humans with severe 
protein C deficiency, they apparently had no signs of purpura fulminans in the skin. Thrombotic onset 
was  primarily  located  in  the  brain  at  early  developmental  stages  and  progressed  rapidly  after  birth. 
Neonates also demonstrated thrombotic manifestations in liver, kidney, heart and lung.  
Due  to  these  considerations,  the  preclinical  safety-testing  program  was  based  on  a  variety  of 
established  animal  models,  which  are  used  routinely  by  the  company  for  testing  other  coagulation 
products.  The  choice  of  animal  for  each  type  of  test  was  based  on  the  specific  sensitivities  of  the 
species  in  regard  to  the  type  of  reaction  being  tested.  For  example,  dogs  and  guinea  pigs  are 
particularly susceptible to anaphylactoid reactions. Dogs are also large enough to allow simultaneous 
testing of several parameters of vital function. The rabbit ear is particularly suitable for testing local 
tolerance  because  of  the  accessibility  of  long  vessels,  allowing  macroscopic  evaluation  of  changes. 
The  Wessler  rabbit  stasis  model  has  long  been  considered  the  classic  model  for  testing  the 
thrombogenic potential of test substances. 
9/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
Anaphylactoid potential 
Guinea pigs 
Male guinea pigs were anaesthetised and artificially respired. The animals were randomised to receive 
intra-arterial  administration  of  one  of  the  following  test  substances:  one  of  two  lots  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate at a dose of 300 IU/kg, or an equivalent volume (3 ml/kg) of an albumin placebo control 
(equivalent  to  Protein  C  Concentrate  in  amounts  of  total  protein,  Na3citrate˙2H2O,  and  NaCl)  or 
isotonic saline as a  negative control. This design resulted in  4 experimental groups of 6 guinea pigs 
per  group  (total=24).  A  dose  of  50  mg/kg  immunoglobulin  for  intramuscular  use  was  administered 
intra-arterially to each animal 20 minutes after the injection of the test substance as a positive control 
to ensure that an anaphylactoid reaction could be triggered in the animal. 
Pulmonary inflation pressure was recorded continuously on a polygraph and evaluated before injection 
of the test or control article and 1, 3, 5, and 10 minutes after injection. 
No  positive  reactions  were  seen  after  administration  of  Protein  C  Concentrate,  albumin  placebo,  or 
saline control, although positive reactions were induced in all animals by the subsequent injection of 
the  immunoglobulin  positive  control,  demonstrating  the  validity  of  the  model.  Mean  pulmonary 
inflation  pressure  essentially  did  not  change  1  minute  after  administration  of  protein  C,  albumin 
placebo, or saline, but increased after administration of the positive control 
A further study following a similar design investigated 3 lots of Protein C Concentrate. The results of 
this study did not show significant changes in respiratory pressure after intra-arterial injection of 300 
IU/kg  body  weight  of  Protein  C  Concentrate,  although  subsequent  injection  of  the  positive  control 
article led to significant increases in respiratory pressure.  
The  presented  data  investigating  anaphylactoid  properties  do  not  give  evidence  of  bronchospastic 
activity of protein C Concentrate in the animal model used.  
Dogs 
Spontaneously breathing male and female Beagle dogs were assigned randomly to receive intravenous 
administration of one of the following test substances: one of two lots of Protein C Concentrate at a 
dose  of  500  IU/kg,  or  an  equivalent  volume  (5ml/kg)  of  an  albumin  placebo  control  (equivalent  to 
Protein C Concentrate in amounts of total protein, Na3citrate˙2H2O, and NaCl) or isotonic saline as a 
negative  control.  This  design  resulted  in  4  experimental  groups  of  4  dogs  per  group  (total  n=16).  A 
dose  of  50  mg/kg  immunoglobulin  for  intramuscular  use  was  administered  intravenously  to  each 
animal  180  minutes  after  the  injection  of  the  test  substance  as  a  positive  control  to  ensure  that  an 
anaphylactoid reaction could be triggered in the animal. 
The  following  variables  were  recorded  before  and  5,  15,  30,  60,  120,  and  180  minutes  after 
administration  of  the  test  or  control  article:  mean  arterial  and  pulmonary  artery  pressure,  cardiac 
output,  stroke  volume,  total  peripheral  vascular  resistance,  heart  rate,  respiration  rate,  respiratory 
minute  volume,  ECG,  platelet  count,  and  plasma  fibrinogen  concentration.  The  180  min-value  after 
administration of Protein C, albumin placebo, or saline served as the initial value for the evaluation of 
the immunoglobulin positive control. 
The  immunoglobulin  positive  control  elicited  changes  in  all  variables  except  heart  rate,  serving  to 
validate the responsiveness of the model. In contrast, no biologically relevant changes were seen with 
Protein C compared to albumin placebo and saline.  
A further study investigated 2 lots of Protein C Concentrate using a similar design. In that study also 
there was no evidence of an adverse effect of Protein C Concentrate on any of the parameters tested. 
10/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The presented data investigating the safety pharmacological profile of the test substance do not give 
evidence of adverse effects of protein C Concentrate in the animal model used 
Thrombogenic potential 
Male  and  female  New  Zealand  white  rabbits  were  assigned  randomly  to  groups  of  8  animals  per 
group: 6 animals in each group received an intravenous injection of 200 IU/kg of one of two lots of 
Protein C Concentrate or an equivalent volume of an albumin placebo control (equivalent to Protein C 
Concentrate  in  amounts  of  total  protein,  Na3citrate˙2H2O,  and  NaCl);  2  animals  received  an 
intravenous  injection  of  an  equivalent  volume  of  activated  prothrombin  complex  (20  U/kg)  as  a 
positive control (total n=24). 
Thrombus  formation  was  determined  using  the  semiquantitative  method  described  by Wessler  et  al. 
(1959).  The  formation  of  thrombi  was  evaluated  using  a  scoring  system  proportional  to  thrombus 
formation (0 = liquid blood without thrombi; 0.5 - 1 = a few small thrombi; 2 = several middle-sized 
thrombi  or  many  small  thrombi;  3  =  a  greater  number  of  middle  sized  thrombi;  3.5  =  few  larger 
thrombi; 4 = large thrombus). Negative (non-thrombogenic) substances do not exceed a score of 1. 
Protein  C  Concentrate  (200  IU/kg  i.v.)  yielded  a  negative  result  (score  0  in  all  animals  except  one, 
which had a score of 0.5). The results for the albumin placebo were also negative, whereas scores for 
the positive control ranged from 3 to 4.  
A further study, in which were tested 3 lots of Protein C Concentrate, all animals receiving Protein C 
had scores of 0.  
It was concluded that the risk of thrombus formation after administration of Protein C Concentrate is 
negligible. 
Immunogenicity studies 
Studies  on  the  immunogenic  response  were  not  conducted  because  prior  experience  with  human 
plasma derived products had shown them to be of limited value. The difference between the recipient 
species  and  human  protein  C  will  inevitably  result  with  antibody  formation.  Some  information  is 
available  regarding  immunogenic  response  of  FVIII  in  mice.  None  of  the  normal  mice  developed 
detectable  antibodies  after  the  first  injection,  but  30  –  50%  of  the  FVIII  knockout  mice  did  show 
antibody  formation.  After  the  second  injection,  anti-FVIII  were  detectable  in  all  animals  of  both 
strains.  There  were  no  differences  in  final  anti-FVIII  antibody  levels  between  FVIII  knockout-  and 
normal mice. 
After intravenous treatment, the rate of antibody formation was very similar to that after subcutaneous 
treatment. This example of FVIII demonstrates that immunogenic studies in animals are of academic 
interest, but have no value in predicting an immune response against a therapeutic protein in humans. 
(Reipert et al., Thromb. Haemost., 2000.) 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
The usual dose for one injection of Protein C Concentrate in humans is between 40 and 100 IU per kg 
body weight. The maximum dose of Protein C Concentrate would not be expected to exceed 130 IU 
per  kg  body  weight  in  a  single  injection.  The  maximum  exposure  in  humans  is  expected  to  be 
approximately 100 IU/kg Protein C Concentrate given as a bolus 4 times daily over a maximum of 4 
weeks  during  acute  clinical  situations,  or  approximately  1000  IU  per  day  over  longer  periods  after 
reaching a steady state. 
The single doses used in the animal safety studies ranged from 100 to 6000 IU per kg body weight, 
i.e.,  far  above  the  expected  dose  in  humans.  No  indicatons  of  an  anaphylactoid  reaction  were  seen 
after  intra-arterial  administration  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  at  300  IU/kg  in  guinea  pigs.  No 
biologically relevant changes were seen after intravenous administration of Protein C Concentrate at 
500  IU/kg  in  dogs.    No  thrombus  formation  was  seen  after  intravenous  administration  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate of 200 IU/kg in rabbits. No signs of toxicity were seen after intravenous administration at 
11/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2000  IU/kg  in  rats  or  1500  IU/kg  in  mice.  No  morphological  changes  occurred  at  the  injection  site 
after  intravenous,  or  intra-arterial  injection  into  rabbits  at  a  dose  of  500 IU,  or  after  paravenous 
injection of 100 IU. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  company  states  that  pharmacokinetic  testing  of  human  proteins  in  experimental  animals  is  not 
directly predictive of the situation in humans. Since the metabolic clearance rate depends on species-
specific  factors,  Protein  C  Concentrate  would  be  catabolized  differently  in  heterologous  than  in 
homologous  recipients.  Thus,  no  animal  studies  were  performed  to  address  pharmacokinetics, 
distribution, biodegradation or excretion. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity: 
Rats 
Male  and  female  Sprague-Dawley  rats  were  randomly  assigned  to  groups  receiving  intravenous 
administration of one of the following test substances: one of two lots of Protein C Concentrate at a 
dose of 2000 IU/kg, or an equivalent volume (20 ml/kg) of an albumin placebo control (equivalent to 
Protein C Concentrate in amounts of total protein, Na3citrate˙2H2O, and NaCl) or isotonic saline as a 
negative control. This design resulted in 4 experimental groups of 10 rats per group (total n=40). 
The animals were monitored for 14 days for unusual behaviour or physiological changes indicative of 
acute  toxicity;  body  weight  was  measured  on  days  0,  7,  and  14  to  provide  an  indication  of  general 
health,  and  the  number  of  deaths  was  recorded.  On  day  14  all  surviving  rats  were  sacrificed  and  a 
gross pathological examination was performed.  
No deaths or signs of toxicity occurred in any of the groups treated with Protein C or saline. One male 
rat in the group receiving the placebo formulation showed behavioural depression and dyspnea for 5 
minutes after administration. Based on this study, the No Observed  Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) 
for  Protein  C  in  rats  is  therefore  at  least  2000  IU/kg,  which  is  approximately  20-fold  the  assumed 
maximum human dose for a single injection.  
Similarly,  no  deaths  or  signs  of  toxicity  were  found  in  another  study  where  3  lots  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate tested at doses of 1000 and 2000 IU/kg. 
It  was  concluded  that  the  safety  margin  between  the  human  dose  and  the  experimental  doses  is 
sufficiently large to qualify the human dose as safe. It is also stated thus the safety margin appears to 
be fully adequate in comparison with the dose of 100 IU/kg used in humans. 
Mice 
Male  and  female  specific  pathogen-free  NMRI  mice  were  randomly  assigned  to  groups  receiving 
intravenous injection of one of the following test substances: one of two lots of Protein C Concentrate 
at  doses  of  1500,  3000,  or  6000  IU/kg,  or  equivalent  volumes  (15,  30,  or  60  ml/kg)  of  an  albumin 
placebo control (equivalent to Protein C Concentrate in amounts of total protein, Na3citrate˙2H2O, and 
NaCl) or 60 ml/kg isotonic saline as a negative control. This design resulted in 10 experimental groups 
of 10 mice per group (total n=100). 
The animals were monitored for 14 days for unusual behaviour or physical changes indicative of acute 
toxicity; body weight was measured on days 0, 7, and 14 to provide an indication of general health, 
and  the  number  of  deaths  was  recorded.  On  day  14,  all  surviving  mice  were  sacrificed  and  a  gross 
pathological examination was performed. Organs showing abnormalities were preserved and subjected 
to histological examination.  
A total of 13 deaths were observed in the group receiving 6000 IU/kg and 1 in the 3000 IU/kg group. 
Cramps, dyspnea and behavioural depression were observed after the administration of both protein C 
and albumin placebo, but not after saline. The symptoms in animals that died were indicative of citrate 
12/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toxicity, which was not surprising since the amount of citrate administered in 6000 IU/kg Protein C or 
60  ml/kg  albumin  placebo  exceeded  the  LD50  value  of  260  mg/kg  i.v.  The  No  Observed  Adverse 
Effect  Levels  (NOAEL)  for  Protein  C  Concentrate  for  this  study  in  mice  was  concluded  with  1500 
IU/kg. 
In another study with 3 lots of Protein C Concentrate, the NOAEL ranged from 1500 to 3000 IU/kg iv.  
The  safety  margin  appears  to  be  fully  adequate  in  comparison  with  the  dose  of  100  IU/ml  used  in 
humans. 
Repeated dose toxicity: 
Repeated toxicity studies were not conducted because prior experience with coagulation preparations 
had shown them to be of limited value. Difference between the recipient species and human Protein C 
will inevitably result in an immune response with antibody formation. 
Considering  also  the  low  level  of  impurities  in  the  preparation  and  its  biological  identity  to  natural 
protein  C,  it  was  argued  that  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  at  this  stage  in  the  development  of  the 
product  would  not  furnish  meaningful  data  which  will  impact  on  the  way  the  product  is  used  or 
labelled. Furthermore, data on long-term treatment in humans is available. 
Genotoxicity: 
Protein  C  Concentrate  was  tested  for  mutagenic  activity  with  the  "Salmonella  typhimurium  Reverse 
Mutation Assay" (Ames test). 
All positive control groups showed significantly increased mutation frequencies, which demonstrates 
the  sensitivity  of  the  system.  It  was  concluded  that  none  of  the  tested  concentrations  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate  showed  a  statistically  significant  increase  of  the  mutation  frequency  compared  to  the 
control samples with any of the strains used. Metabolic activation did not change these results.  
On  the  basis  of  the  results  obtained  in  this  study  it  is  concluded  that  the  reconstituted  solution  of 
Protein  C  Concentrate  is  non-mutagenic  in  the  Ames  test  with  the  strains  S  typhimurium  TA97a, 
TA98, TA100, TA102 and TA1535 up to a concentration of 100 µl per plate. 
Carcinogenicity: 
Since  humans  treated  with  Protein  C  Concentrate  receive  native,  homologous  protein,  carcinogenic 
effects  are  not  to  be  anticipated.  Repeated  testing  of  human  proteins  in  heterologous  recipients  is 
difficult because of the risk of formation of antibodies. Incompatibility reactions based on an antigen-
antibody  reaction  would  not  be  representative  for  the  situation  in  humans.  Therefore,  in  light  of 
legislation restricting animal experimentation to meaningful and necessary tests, preclinical studies on 
carcinogenic potential were not conducted for Protein C Concentrate. 
Reproduction Toxicity: 
A teratogenicity study was initially not considered necessary because the main indication for Protein C 
Concentrate  is  in  infants.    However,  since  there  may  be  clinical  demand  for  the  use  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate in pregnant women with hereditary protein deficiency (the concentrate has been used in 
two pregnant women on a compassionate use basis), the SPC has been revised to clarify that very little 
information is available on the use of protein C concentrate in pregnancy. 
Currently,  experiments  are  conducted  to  investigate  whether  human  protein  C  crosses  the  placental 
barrier in animals routinely used in reproduction toxicity studies: Five mice, 5 rats and 3 rabbits were 
intravenously  administered  Protein  C  Concentrate  on  the  12th,  13th  and  15th  day  of  pregnancy, 
respectively. The dose was 2500 IU/kg in mice and rats and 1000 IU/kg in rabbits. 30 minutes after 
administration the anesthetized animals were sacrificed. 
Protein C is found almost exclusively in the plasma of the parent animal and only in very low amounts 
in the organs examined. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the protein C found in the organs is to be 
attributed to the organs or to the blood they still contain. Protein C was never found in the embryos, 
irrespective of whether or not the parent animal was bled at the time of removal. 
13/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  studies  suggest  that  the  animal  species  studied  are  unsuitable  for  the  determination  of 
embryotoxicity and teratogenicity (performed mostly in rats and rabbits) of Protein C Concentrate. 
Local Tolerance 
Male and female New Zealand white rabbits assigned randomly to 9 groups of 4 animals (2 males and 
2 females) per group, to receive either Protein C from 1 of 2 production lots or an albumin placebo 
control (equivalent to Protein C Concentrate in amounts of total protein, Na3citrate˙2H2O, and NaCl). 
Injections  were  given  either  intravenously  or  intra-arterially  into  one  ear  at  a  dose  of  500 IU,  or 
paravenously at 100 IU. This design resulted in 9 experimental groups of 4 rabbits per group (total n= 
36). 
As  a  negative  control,  each  animal  received  an  injection  of  an  equivalent  volume  of  isotonic  saline 
into the contra-lateral ear by the same route of administration. Following the injection, animals were 
monitored  closely  during  the  first  6  hours,  then  once  a  day  during  a  total  observation  period  of  72 
hours for signs of local reactions, unusual behaviour, and any symptoms suggestive of acute toxicity. 
Thereafter, all animals were sacrificed. Injection sites were examined macro- and microscopically to 
assess the extent of any local tissue reactions.  
No  behavioural  alterations  were  observed  in  any  of  the  animals  during  the  observation  period. 
Virtually no pathological changes were found after administration of either Protein C Concentrate or 
albumin  placebo.  It  was  concluded  that  tolerance  for  Protein  C  Concentrate  is  excellent  after 
intravenous, intra-arterial and paravenous administration in rabbits. 
Similar results were obtained in another study with 3 lots of Protein C Concentrate. 
The results obtained indicate that Protein C Concentrate is well tolerated in the animal model used. 
Other toxicity studies 
Safety of polysorbate 80 
Studies  of  metabolism  and  excretion  after  intravenous  application  of  polysorbate  in  experimental 
animals  show that  plasma  lipases  hydrolyze the polysorbate and the fatty acids undergo  metabolism 
with CO2 excreted via the lungs. The polyoxyethylene-sorbitan part of the molecule is excreted via the 
urine  and  partially  via  the  bile  in  an  unchanged  manner  (CIR  Expert  Panel  Report,  1984).  There  is 
good  evidence  that  the  metabolism  of  polysorbate  is  very  similar  in  humans.  McKean  et  al.  (1987) 
showed  identity  by  HPLC  of  the  polyoxyethylene  sorbitan  metabolite  in  urine  of  humans  after 
intravenous  administration  of  polysorbate  20,  and  the  analogous  metabolite  in  urine  of  rats  after 
intravenous treatment with polysorbate 80. 
The  Cosmetic  Ingredient  Review  Expert  Panel  final  report  on  the  safety  assessment  of  polysorbates 
(CIR,  1984)  concluded  that  polysorbate  80  is  nonmutagenic  and  noncarcinogenic  (although 
polysorbates may enhance the activity of known chemical carcinogens), and that acute intravenous and 
intraperitoneal injection of polysorbates into rats and mice results in LD50 values indicative of only a 
low  order  of  parenteral  toxicity.  Recent  developmental  toxicity  studies  showed  no  maternal  or 
developmental  effects  of  polysorbate  80  given  intravenously  at  doses  as  high  as  75  mg/kg  from 
gestation day 0 to 19 in rats and 62.5 mg/kg from gestation day 7 to 19 in rabbits (Hilbish et al., 1997).  
Reports  in  the  literature  vary  as  to  polysorbate-induced  human  hypersensitivity.  However,  the  most 
conservative data indicate that effects are seen only after administration of relatively large amounts of 
polysorbate  80.  For  example,  small  differences  in  hemodynamic  parameters  were  observed  after 
intravenous  infusion  of  doses  of  10  mg/kg  polysorbate  80  administered  in  5  mg/kg  amiodarone, 
compared with the same amount of amiodarone without polysorbate 80 (Munoz et al., 1988). Sicart et 
al.  (1977)  observed  hemodynamic  changes  in  five  patients  after  the  administration  of  20  mg/kg 
polysorbate 80 (analogous to the polysorbate content of 10 mg/kg amiodarone). 
14/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since release criteria ensure that the polysorbate 80 content of Protein C Concentrate does not exceed 
5 µg/ml, it was concluded that the safety margin is sufficient. 
Impurities/Metabolites: 
Evaluation of possible formation of neoantigens after vapour heating of Protein C 
To  reduce  risk  of  virus  transmission,  Protein  C  is  subjected  to  vapour  heating.  The  increased 
temperature used during this treatment may theoretically result in the formation of novel proteins. A 
study was therefore carried out to evaluate the influence of vapour heating on the molecular integrity 
of Protein C Concentrate by determining whether neoantigens are present after vapour heating of the 
product (e.g., 10 h at 60°C plus 1 h at 80°C). 
Rabbits  were  immunized  with  three  batches  each  of  untreated  or  vapour  heated  intermediate  bulk 
powder. The resulting antiserum after immunization with the vapour heated product were used both in 
native  form  and  absorbed  with  the  untreated  product.  Similarly  the  resulting  antisera  after 
immunization  with  the  untreated  product  were  used  native  and  absorbed  with  the  vapour-heated 
product, to demonstrate disappearance of antigens. 
The  test  and  control  articles  were  electrophoretically  separated  using  SDS-polyacrylamide  gel 
electrophoresis  (SDS-PAGE).  The  separated  proteins  were  electrotransferred  (Western  Blot)  to  a 
nitrocellulose (NC) matrix, and incubated with the respective rabbit antisera against the vapour heated 
product, or against the untreated product with and without absorption, to form immune-complexes on 
the  matrix.  After  incubation  with  an  affinity-purified  goat  anti-rabbit  IgG,  coupled  to  horseradish 
peroxidase, the immuno-complexes were stained by incubation with 4-chloro-1-naphtol and hydrogen 
peroxide and evaluated visually. 
Neither changes -neither formation of neoantigens nor disappearance of antigens originally present in 
the untreated product- were detectable after vapour heating of Protein C Concentrate. 
CEPROTIN  also  contains  trace  amounts  of  mouse  protein.  The  concentration  of  murine  IgG  of  ≤ 
3ng/ml  is  smaller  than  that  usually  contained  in  other  therapeutic  products  purified  by  monoclonal 
antibody  affinity  chromatography,  such  as  highly  purified  FVIII  concentrates  or  recombinant  FVIII 
concentrates, which are safely administered on a life-long basis. 
The  benzamidine  concentration  in  CEPTROTIN  is  ≤  40  ng/100  U.  Analysing  DNA  single  strand 
breaks in rat hepatocytes in vitro, benzamidine was without effect at concentrations corresponding to 
290  mg/kg  in  vivo.  Between  the  concentration  used  in  vitro,  which  remained  without  gene  toxic 
effects,  and  the  benzamidine  exposure  of  52  ng/kg  of  a  patient  who  receives  CEPROTIN  there  is  a 
difference  of  1:5  577  000.  Therefore,  the  safety  margin  is  sufficient.  In  addition,  it  should  be  noted 
that the Ames test performed with CEPROTIN was negative. 
CEPROTIN  contains  ≤  20  ng/ml  EDTA  corresponding  to  a  single  human  maximum  dose  of  ≤  26 
ng/kg. EDTA as a stand alone therapeutic is intravenously infused as an antidote in patients in doses 
up to 80 mg/kg per day up to 5 days, repeated if necessary after an interval of 2 days. The maximum 
dose  given  is  0.8  g/kg  (Martindale,  1993).  Therefore,  the  trace  amounts  of  EDTA  contained  in 
CEPROTIN are several orders of magnitude lower than that usually given intravenously to a patient 
treated specifically with EDTA. The EDTA concentrations in CEPROTIN can be considered as of no 
toxicological relevance.  
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
A  series  of  preclinical  safety  studies  were  carried  out  with  Protein  C  Concentrate  manufactured 
according  to  the  modified  process  (Method  II).  Studies  investigating  special  pharmacodynamic  and 
pharmacokinetic  aspects  were  not  applied.  Reprotoxicity,  in  vivo-mutagenicity  and  cancerogenicity 
studies were not performed due to the pharmacological profile of the product and the human origin of 
the active substance.  
15/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
All  pivotal  safety  studies  with  regard  to  anaphylactoid  reactions  in  guinea  pigs  and  dogs  and 
coagulation activation in dogs, thrombogenic potential in rabbits, acute toxicity in rats and mice, and 
local tolerance in rabbits, were not shown to raise any safety concerns. Investigation of local tolerance 
in rabbits indicated that the product was well tolerated after intravenous, intra-arterial, and paravenous 
injection. In vitro studies on mutagenicity and molecular integrity did not reveal safety concerns. 
No studies were performed to address pharmacokinetic properties. However, the company states that 
such  information  does  not  appear  necessary  for  Protein  C  Concentrate  because  of  the  nature  of  the 
product  as  a  homologous  replacement  protein,  particularly  in  view  of  the  clinical  data  already 
available. 
The  lack  of  repeated  dose  toxicity,  carcinogenicity  and  reproductive  studies  can  be  considered 
acceptable  in  view  of  the  fact  that  Protein  C  is  an  endogenous  protein  which  would  induce  the 
development of neutralising antibodies in heterologous recipients.  
Review of the literature on the safety of polysorbate 80 indicates that the use of this substance in the 
production of Protein C Concentrate poses no safety concerns, since a relatively large safety margin 
exists at the proposed specified residue limits.  
The  responses  submitted  by  the  company  to  the  questions  concerning  the  pharmacological  and 
toxicological documentation were regarded to be sufficient and the objections were clarified. 
Considering the results of the preclinical documentation it can be concluded that there is no evidence 
for an adverse pharmacological and toxicological potential of CEPROTIN regarding safety concerns 
for the administration to humans. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Three clinical study reports have been submitted to support the licensure of Protein C Concentrate: 
• 
• 
An  interim  report  on  a  clinical  study  (IMAG-098)  entitled  "A  Clinical  Study  on  the 
Pharmacokinetics  of  PROTEIN  C  CONCENTRATE 
in  Asymptomatic  Subjects  with 
Homozygous  or  Double  Heterozygous  Congenital  PC  Deficiency".  This  summarises 
pharmacokinetic  data  and  acute  safety  data  from  eight  asymptomatic  subjects.  Method  II 
produced  PROTEIN  C  CONCENTRATE  for  this  clinical  study,  which  is  being  performed  in 
full compliance with current GCP guidelines. 
A compilation of data retrospectively collected from  
a)  Compassionate treatments of subjects with congenital or acquired PC deficiency; 
b)  A clinical study (IMAG-039) entitled "An Open Label Study of the Efficacy and Safety 
of  PROTEIN  C  CONCENTRATE  in  the  Treatment  of  Severe  Congenital  Protein  C 
Deficiency  with  or  without  Purpura  Fulminans".  This  study  included  79  patients. 
Twenty-two subjects with homozygous or double heterozygous PC deficiency, with or 
without  thrombotic  events  such  as  purpura  fulminans,  with  arterial  and/or  venous 
thrombotic disease, were evaluated for efficacy; 
c) 
Two  subjects  with  homozygous  PC  deficiency  from  a  clinical  study  (IMAG-041) 
entitled  "An  Open  Label  Study  on  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  PROTEIN  C 
CONCENTRATE in the Treatment of Warfarin (Coumarin)-Induced Skin Necrosis with 
PC Deficiency", were evaluated for safety.  
Since  treatments  cover  a  period  from  1990  to  the  present,  the  product  used  was  produced  by 
Methods I and II. Study treatments and compassionate uses do not always conform to the current 
standards  for  GCP,  since  treatment  was  provided  in  life-threatening  situations.  Data  sets  for 
individuals are incomplete because of the retrospective character of the evaluation. 
16/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
A  Phase  I/II  study  conducted  from  1989  to  1992  summarises  the  initial  experience  with 
PROTEIN  C  CONCENTRATE  (produced  by  Method  I)  in  humans.  The  report  includes 
treatment information for  eight  patients; six  with  congenital  PC  deficiency, one with acquired 
deficiency and one with deficiency of unknown origin. Data were analysed for acute safety and 
tolerability,  and  initial  pharmacokinetic  data  were  obtained.  In  four  subjects  with  acute 
thrombotic  complications,  preliminary  evidence  of  efficacy  in  terms  of  improvement  of 
thrombosis/skin  necrosis  was  described.  The  study  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  Good 
Clinical Practice guidelines and national requirements in effect in Germany at the time.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Protein  C  is  the  zymogen  of  a  coagulation  inhibitor.  Congenital  deficiency  of  protein  C  is  an 
autosomal  disorder  and  associated  with  increased  risk  of  venous  thrombosis.  The  majority  of  the 
patients  are  heterozygous  for  the  defect.  Heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency  is  characterised  by  an 
increased risk for thromboembolic disease as encountered in heterozygous antithrombin III deficiency.  
Homozygous protein C deficiency is rare: only 17 cases of homozygous type 1 protein C deficiencies 
are recorded in an international database of mutations and only about 20 further cases of homozygous 
protein C are reported in the literature. Most commonly these patients present with purpura fulminans 
in the neonatal period. Typically, these infants have protein C levels that are less than 0.10 units/ ml 
(U/ml). A small number of severe protein C deficient patients do not present with purpura fulminans at 
birth. Rather they present with severe thromboembolic disease during childhood or early adult life. To 
date only 8 patients presenting with late onset of thromboembolic complications have been confirmed 
by DNA analysis to be true homozygotes. 
Double  heterozygous  defects,  a  separate  defect  on  each  pair  of  protein  C  genes,  can  also  result  in 
severe protein C deficiency with symptoms similar to those in homozygous protein deficiency. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Protein  C  is  a  vitamin  K-dependent  anticoagulant  glycoprotein  that  is  synthesised  in  the  liver.  It  is 
converted  by  thrombin/  thrombomodulin-complex  on  the  endothelial  surface  to  activated  protein  C 
(APC).  APC  is  a  serine  protease  with  potent  anticoagulant  effects,  especially  in  the  presence  of  its 
cofactor  protein  S.  APC  exerts  its  effect  by  the  inactivation  of  the  activated  forms  of  factors  V  and 
VIII,  which  leads  to  a  decrease  in  thrombin  formation.  APC  has  also  been  shown  to  have 
profibrinolytic effects. 
Pharmacokinetics 
General 
IMAG-098: Clinical study on the pharmacokinetics of Protein C Concentrate in asymptomatic 
subjects with homozygous or double heterozygous congenital protein C deficiency  
The  objective  of  the  study  was  to  determine  the  pharmacokinetic  (pk)  parameters  of  Protein  C 
Concentrate in asymptomatic patients with homozygous or double heterozygous protein C deficiency. 
In  addition,  acute  safety  of  the  product  was  assessed.  An  interim  report  on  the  clinical  study  was 
submitted and evaluated. 
Eight  to  12  asymptomatic  patients  with  homozygous  or  double  heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency, 
who may be receiving protein C replacement and/ or anticoagulants at the time of entry, were planned 
to be recruited into the study. To date 13 subjects are enrolled.  
Patients meeting the following inclusion/ exclusion criteria were included in the study: 
17/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Inclusion criteria: 
• 
have provided written informed consent (if subject is ≤18 years of age, parent or legal guardian 
must sign and date an informed consent form); 
have a diagnosis of congenital protein C deficiency (homozygous or double heterozygous); 
are asymptomatic; 
are allowed to receive oral anticoagulants; 
if  female  of  child  bearing  potential,  a  negative  pregnancy  test  must  be  documented  within  1 
week before administration of the test dose. 
Exclusion criteria: 
• 
• 
body weight less than 8 kg; 
active liver disease defined as an ALT level greater than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal for 
the testing laboratory; 
any thrombotic complications within two weeks prior to administration of the test dose; 
receiving an investigational product other than Protein C Concentrate within 60 days prior to the 
infusion of the test dose. 
Subjects on prophylactic treatment with Protein C Concentrate at the time of study entry receive their 
last prophylactic infusion 30 to 36 hours prior to the administration of the test dose for pk assessment. 
Protein C levels are to be determined in all subjects weighing more than 15 kg, pre-infusion and at 1, 
17 and 25 hours post-infusion. 
All subjects receive Protein C Concentrate as a single test dose of 80IU/ kg for determination of the pk 
parameters. 
Samples for determination of protein C are drawn pre-infusion and at 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 
24, and 36 hours. Subjects with severe protein C deficiency who are currently on a regimen involving 
treatment every 24 or 48 hours do not have the 36 hour sample drawn..  
At  the  administration  of  the  test  dose  and  the  pre-test  dose  respectively  the  subject's  vital  signs  are 
recorded  pre-infusion,  at  30  minutes,  2,  4  and  24  hours  post-infusion.  Blood  samples  are  drawn  for 
local  laboratory  assessments  (whole  blood  count),  pre-infusion,  at  30  minutes  and  24  hours  post-
infusion. 
The functional protein C activity is measured using a chromogenic assay. At baseline and at 3 month, 
blood is drawn to test for viral markers and antibody development. Additionally, blood is drawn for 
Polymerase  Chain  Reaction  (PCR)  testing  (HIV1/2,  HBV,  HCV  and  PVB-19).  The  detailed  test 
descriptions  and  the  validation  of  the  principal  of  the  test  methods  for  protein  C  activity,  inhibitory 
antibodies  against  protein  C,  anti-murine  antibodies,  viral  markers  and  blood  count  and  haematocrit 
have been provided. 
Twelve  asymptomatic  subjects  with  homozygous  or  double  heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency  were 
evaluated for pk data. 
Two  models  were  used  in  the  analysis  of  the  data:  the  compartmental  approach  described  by  Lee, 
Poon  and  Kingdon  and  the  non-compartmental  approach  described  by,  among  others,  Morfini  and 
colleagues.  There  is  no  clear  answer  whether  the  model  used  fits  the  data  best.  For  the  non-
compartmental approach there is no fit to the observed concentrations whereas for the compartmental 
model used to derive the terminal half-life is considered to be rather vague. The compartmental model 
used  for  each  individual  patient  is  specified;  the  choice  for  each  patient  (i.e  whether  1  or  2 
compartmental) is described.  
Compartmental and non-compartmental t1/2 were calculated in the same patients and thus methods for 
paired  data  had  to  be  applied.  In  each  subject,  the  half-life  computed  by  the  non-compartmental 
method  is  longer  than  that  computed  by  the  compartmental  approach  (median:  5.25  hours).  A 
Wilcoxon  Signed  Rank  test  indicates  that  the  difference  between  both  methods  is  statistically 
significant (p = 0.0005).  
Twelve  asymptomatic  subjects  with  homozygous  or  double  heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency  were 
evaluated  for  pk  data.  Some  of  the  subjects  with  severe  protein  C  deficiency  are  currently  on  a 
18/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regimen involving treatment every 24 or 48 hours. The sponsor's decision to use a wash-out period of 
only  approx.  3  half-lives  combined  with  a  limited  amount  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  for  the  last 
prophylactic  treatment  is  matter  for  concern.  In  several  cases  the  post  observation  period  was 
shortened to 24 hours (less than 3 half-lives). A foreshortened post-infusion observation period could 
reduce the half-life estimates. 
Two subjects were identified with APC resistance in study IMAG-098, and their in-vivo half-lives of 
Protein C were found to be in the range described for the overall study group. The results reveal that 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  Protein  C  have  such  a  high  inter-subject  variability  that  APC  resistance  is 
most likely not to be considered as a confounding variable. 
The  clinical  study  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  in  asymptomatic  subjects  with 
homozygous or double heterozygous congenital protein C deficiency revealed a marked variability of 
the  pk  parameters  between  the  individual  patients,  eg.  Half-life:  median  10.6  hours,  range  4.4-15.9 
hours, and incremental in vivo recovery: median 0.014 IU/ml per IU/kg, 0.005-0.17 IU/ml per IU/kg, 
The pharmakokinetic data are not sufficient to characterise the product and to give recommendations 
on dosage and frequency of administration of Protein C Concentrate. 
There is no discussion on the clinical impact of the differences. 
The  data on the history of thrombotic events for the patients who  are currently on prophylaxis were 
not  provided with the original submission, but have been requested to be included in the final study 
report.  
Seven of the 13 study subjects were not on prophylactic treatment with Protein C Concentrate. All of 
these 7 subjects received oral anticoagulant therapy for prophylaxis. Three of the 7 subjects received 
Protein C Concentrate on demand for thrombotic episodes prior to enrollment and 4 subjects did not 
receive Protein C Concentrate at any time during the last two years prior to enrollment. Two of these 7 
subjects  had  their  last  thrombotic  episode  more  than  2  years  prior  to  enrollment  into  the  study:  one 
subject  had  a  DVT,  for  this  subject  the  treatment  for  this  event  is  not  known,  and  one  subject  had 
microthrombosis on the skin and received Protein C Concentrate on demand. The other 5 subjects had 
thrombotic  episodes  during  the  last  2  years  prior  to  enrollment.  Two  subjects  received  Protein  C 
Concentrate for treatment of acute episodes, and three subjects received Fresh Frozen Plasma. 
The  data  on  the  history  of  thrombotic  episodes  and  treatment  for  the  7  subjects  that  were  not  on 
prophylactic  treatment  with  Protein  C  Concentrate,  during  the  two  years  prior  to  study  entry  are 
provided.  The  data  on  the  history  of  thrombotic  events  for  6  patients  on  prophylaxis  are  also  of 
importance, and these data should be included in the final study report. 
Additional pharmacokinetic data: 
A study report "Clinical Study of Phases I and II for assessment of efficacy, tolerability, and in vivo-
recovery  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  in  patients  with  congenital  protein  C  deficiency",  presents  an 
analysis of pharmacokinetic parameters in 5 patients with congenital protein C deficiency. Protein C 
Concentrate manufactured by method I was used for this study.  
The  median  half-life  in  this  study  was  12  hrs  (two  phase  model)  and  14  hrs  (non-compartmental). 
These results were in accordance with previous findings published in literature. However it has to be 
taken into consideration that the pk data published in literature were obtained in few patients all under 
therapy  with  Protein  C  Concentrate  manufactured  by Baxter  AG, so to  make  a comparison between 
these data is not very meaningful.  
Additionally study  IMAG-39  includes  analyses  of  pharmakokinetic  parameters  for  6  patients.  These 
pharmakokinetic  data  are  not  comparable  with  the  pk  data  obtained  in  study  IMAG-098,  since  the 
protocol for pk evaluation was not standardised due to the clinical situation.  
19/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
Dose response study 
No formal dose-finding studies were performed. 
Report  on  a  Retrospective  Data  Collection  Conducted  for  Clinical  Study  IMAG-039, 
Treatments Under Compassionate Use Provisions and Two Subjects Treated Under Protocol 
IMAG-041 
This  retrospective  data  collection  concerned  the  centres  that  in  the  past  had  used  PROTEIN  C 
CONCENTRATE  in  the  United  States,  Canada  and  Europe,  either  under  compassionate  use,  in 
study IMAG-039 or in study IMAG-041. 
Data  from  two  subjects  treated  under  study  IMAG-041  were  collected  and  are  reported  in  the 
Safety section of this report 
1. 
Description of the study 
According to the protocol, study IMAG-039 was an open label study to assess Protein C Concentrate 
as an effective and safe replacement therapy for severe congenital protein C deficiency in children and 
to make it available to patients worldwide who is without other adequate treatment alternatives. Study 
participation was open to subjects: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
with arterial and/or venous thrombotic disease; 
with a diagnosis of homozygous or double heterozygous protein C deficiency; 
with or without purpura fulminans; 
of any age or sex; 
providing informed consent. 
The only exclusion criteria were in the case that subjects or parents or legal guardians refuse to give 
informed consent. 
Laboratory tests included a complete blood count, several parameters to assess the coagulation status 
and viral safety markers. 
Data on 79 subjects with congenital or acquired PC deficiency were collected. A subset of 21 subjects 
with a diagnosis of homozygous (n=16) or double heterozygous (n=5) PC deficiency was evaluated for 
efficacy.  Eighteen  were  treated  intravenously  with  PROTEIN  C  CONCENTRATE.  Three  treated 
under  compassionate  use  had  initially  received  the  product  intravenously  but  were  switched  to 
subcutaneous treatment later on. 
According to protocol, subjects were to receive a test dose of 10 U/kg b.w., infused over a 20-minute 
period, during which the subject was monitored for adverse events including allergic reactions to the 
product.  If  no  adverse  or  allergic  reactions  were  noted,  the  subjects  were  to  be  given  an  initial 
therapeutic  dose  of  40  IU/kg  b.w,  infused  over  15-20  minutes.  The  therapeutic  dosage  for  further 
infusions  had to  be adjusted  on the  basis  of half-life studies  performed with the  goal  of  achieving  a 
twice-daily  or  once-daily  treatment.  The  planned  level  of  PC  in  these  subjects  was  above  0.8  IU/ml 
(80% of normal). Treatment with PROTEIN C CONCENTRATE was to be continued at least until the 
disappearance of skin lesions and until oral coagulation could be safely started. The treatment period 
varied from 1 to 2,241 days. 
For  the  initial  therapeutic  dose,  blood  samples  were  drawn  to  establish  the  appropriate  level  for 
subsequent doses of PC for each individual. Serial samples were taken pre-infusion and 15 minutes, 30 
minutes, 1 hour, 4 hours, 8 hours, and 12 hours post-infusion. 
Monitoring during the acute phase comprised laboratory tests and a physical examination on a daily 
basis to check. During steady state, the physical examination was carried out every second day and PC 
20/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
activity levels were determined every third day. Antibodies to PC and murine immunoglobulin were 
reportedly determined one month after starting treatment and then at six months. 
1. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The planned endpoints of the study were normalisation of protein C levels and laboratory parameters 
indicating coagulation activation, the dissolution of thrombotic occlusions, and the regression of any 
skin lesions present at entry. 
The evaluation included treatments for acute symptoms, 12 courses for short-term prophylaxis prior to 
surgery  or  invasive  therapy,  and  five  courses  of  long-term  prophylaxis  of  thrombotic  events  or 
complications. 
2. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
In  the  study  protocol  the  parameters  to  be  included  in  the  patient  entry  form  were  specified.  This 
parameters include: diagnosis of congenital protein C deficiency, protein C levels at time of diagnosis, 
medication, including vitamin K prophylaxis at birth, history of venous or arterial thrombotic disease, 
and  purpura  fulminans,  history  of  pregnancy.  If  possible,  a  family  study  to  confirm  the  presence  of 
inherited  protein  C  deficiency  had  to  be  conducted.  Furthermore  a  physical  examination  and 
laboratory  test  had  to  be  performed  at  the  time  of  study  entry.  Existing  skin  lesions  had  to  be 
documented  by  photographs.  Ultrasonogram  of  the  abdomen  was  recommended,  as  well  as  an 
evaluation  of  the  presence  of  renal  vein  thrombosis  and.  When  feasible,  CT  scans  of  the  head  and 
abdomen was advised. 
3. 
Efficacy results  
The data of seventy-nine patients were analysed for the retrospective data collection, the outcome of 
60  patients  have  been  presented.  Twenty-two  of  these  patients  were  diagnosed  with  homozygous  or 
double  heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency,  5  patients  with  heterozygous  protein  C  deficiency,  10 
patients with acquired protein C deficiency and one patient with multiple congenital deficiencies. For 
20  patients  no  diagnosis  was  specified.  Twenty-two  subjects  with  either  homozygous  or  double 
heterozygous protein C deficiency were evaluated for efficacy.  
Efficacy data were presented on basis of the investigators overall assessment. No efficacy assessment 
based on physical examination or laboratory tests was provided.  
In  patients  with  severe  congenital  PC  deficiency  protein  C  concentrate  improved  all  16  purpura 
fulminans  and  all  six  coumarin-induced  skin  necrosis  episodes,  but  only  three  of  the  other  15 
thrombotic  events.  In  patients  with  single  heterozygous,  acquired  or  unknown  deficiency,  treatment 
with Protein c Concentrate improved only less than half the latter episodes. The treatment outcome for 
the treatment of purpura fulminans and episodes of coumarin-induced skin necrosis suggests a benefit 
of the treatment with Protein C in patients with severe congenital protein C deficiency or in patients 
with  single  heterozygous,  acquired  and  unspecified  protein  C  deficiency.  However  the  data  are 
insufficient to suggest that the outcome of other thromboembolic events then purpura fulminans and 
episodes of coumarin-induced skin necrosis can be influenced by treatment with protein C.  
However due to the low patient numbers and the nature of the study the effect of protein C treatment 
cannot be assessed finally. 
Six  subjects  received  12  short-term  prophylactic  treatments  prior  to  surgery,  for  other  invasive 
procedures  or  under  conditions  of  increased  risk  of  thrombosis  (e.g.  pregnancy/childbirth).  Baseline 
protein C level was available for 6 patients, the values ranged from 3% to 34%. However it has to be 
noted that different methods of protein C determination were used. No information about target level 
for  protein  C  is  available.  All  patients  had  thrombotic  events  in  medical  history.  During  short-term 
prohylaxis  and  anticoagulation  with  either  heparin  or  coumarine  no  thrombotic  episode  during 
treatment was observed. An extreme variability in dosage and frequency for protein C administration 
21/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
can  be  noted.  There  was  one  thrombotic  complication  reported  in  a  patient  who  developed  an 
asymptomatic catheter thrombosis in association with an infected central line. 
Supportive study 
Clinical Study of Phases I and II for assessment of efficacy, tolerability, and in vivo-recovery of 
Protein C Concentrate in patients with congenital protein C deficiency  
The open label phase I/ II study was conducted from 1989 to 1992 to obtain initial clinical experience 
with Protein C Concentrate produced by method I with regard to the safety and tolerability.  
In phase I of the study, the primary objective was to assess acute safety and tolerability of Protein C 
Concentrate  in  subjects  with  congenital  protein  C  deficiency.  Efficacy  was  also  assessed  in 
symptomatic subjects. A secondary objective was the determination of in-vivo recovery and half-life 
of Protein C Concentrate. 
In phase II, efficacy in terms of improved skin necrosis and/ or thrombosis was evaluated. Safety and 
tolerability were secondary objectives. 
The following inclusion criteria were used in the selection of patients: 
• 
diagnosis of congenital protein C deficiency with skin necrosis (purpura fulminans, coumarin-
induced necrosis) and/or thrombosis; 
diagnosis  of  congenital  protein  C  deficiency  and  who  were  in  the  initial  phase  of  oral  anti-
coagulation therapy, consequently having an increased risk of thrombosis and/or skin necrosis; 
informed  consent  obtained  from  subject  or  legal  guardian  following  information  on  nature, 
significance and consequences of the clinical study by a physician. 
• 
• 
The following exclusion criteria were used in the selection of patients: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pregnancy; 
no informed consent obtained from subject or legal guardian; 
contraindications for treatment with Protein C Concentrate 
known allergic reactions to human blood products or murine immunoglobulins. 
There were no pre-determined reasons for removal of individual subjects from therapy or assessment. 
It  was  predetermined  that  the  study  would  be  terminated  if  severe  anaphylactoid  or  anaphylactic 
reactions  occurred  during  or  after  infusion  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  or  if  other  severe  adverse 
experiences occurred that were possibly caused by the administration of Protein C Concentrate. 
Phase  I  was  designed  as  a  single-arm,  increasing-dose,  safety  study  in  up  to  10  subjects  with 
congenital protein C deficiency. Three infusions were given: the first infusion of 5 U/kg bodyweight, a 
second  infusion  of  20  U/kg  bodyweight  120  minutes  later  and  a  third  infusion  of  <  40  U/kg 
bodyweight  three  or  more  days  later.  Following  the  infusions,  subjects  were  observed  for 
anaphylactoid/  anaphylactic  and  hypotensive  reactions  for  a  period  of  120  minutes.  Monitoring  for 
adverse experiences was performed throughout the study period. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic 
analysis were drawn before the last infusion and 15, 30 and 60 minutes, 2, 4, 8, 24, 36, and 48 hours 
thereafter.  Analytical  methods  to  be  used  were  not  specified  in  the  protocol.  Protein  C  antigen  and 
activity  were  determined  using  commercial  available  test  systems  and  according  to  procedures 
established in the local laboratories. 
Phase II was designed as a single-arm efficacy study at varying doses to achieve a protein C level at 
70%  of  normal.  Clinical  efficacy  in  terms  of  improvement  of  skin  necrosis/thrombosis,  safety,  and 
tolerability was to be assessed in symptomatic patients. The dosage was calculated on the basis of the 
half-life and in-vivo recovery determined in phase I.  
Patients  previously  in  phase  I  who  developed  skin  necrosis  and/or  thrombosis  was  able  to  receive 
treatment with Protein C Concentrate within one year after the onset of the study. The treatment was 
administered  as  soon  as  possible  at  doses  that  would  result  in  protein  C  plasma  levels  of  70%  of 
normal.  It  was  assumed  that  the  administration  of  1  IU  of  protein  C  per  kg  bodyweight  raises  the 
22/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
protein  C  activity  by  approximately  1.3%.  Depending  on  the  calculated  half-life,  further 
administrations  of  Protein  C  Concentrate  were  given  until  the  symptoms  disappeared.  Phase  II  also 
included testing for viral safety over a period of 6 months. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The  clinical  endpoint  was  defined  as  clinical  efficacy  (descriptive;  in  terms  of  improvement  of  skin 
necrosis/thrombosis) at a level of protein C activity of 70% of normal. 
Efficacy results 
Six  patients  out  of  nine  enrolled  presented  acute  symptoms  and  were  evaluated  for  efficacy:  2  with 
thrombosis,  1  with  thrombosis  and  skin  necrosis,  1  with  necrosis  at  the  galea  aponeurotica,  1  with 
haematoma,  and  1  with  haemarthrosis.  In  all  cases  the  symptoms  improved  or  disappeared  with 
PROTEIN C CONCENTRATE. A one-year-old male with acquired PC deficiency of unknown origin 
was  also  included  in  the  trial  report.  He  had  a  history  of  myocardial  infarction  and  vena  cava 
thrombosis. At entry he presented necrosis of the galea aponeurotica. He received a single infusion of 
PROTEIN C CONCENTRATE (65 U/kg), which almost completely healed the necrosis on the scalp.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  clinical  study  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Protein  Concentrate  in  asymptotic  subjects  with 
homozygous or double heterozygous congenital protein C deficiency revealed a marked variability of 
the  pk  parameters  between  the  individual  patients.  The  pharmakokinetic  data  are  not  sufficient  to 
characterise the product and to give a recommendations on dosage and frequency of administration of 
Protein C Concentrate. 
Study IMAG-098 
The study IMAG-098 continues either until subjects can be transferred to a new study or licensure is 
obtained.  Six  of  the  13  subjects  were  on  continuous  prophylactic  treatment  with  Protein  C 
Concentrate.  Three  subjects  experienced  thrombotic  events  while  on  prophylactic  treatment  with 
Protein C Concentrate. The events occurred while changing the treatment schedule - in one case after 
an  attempt  to  stop  oral  anticoagulation.  In  the  two  other  cases  the  treatment  schedule  for  Protein  C 
Concentrate needed to be changed. 
Study IMAG-039, IMAG-041 or treatment with Protein C for compassionate use 
• 
Treatment for acute thrombotic events in subjects with severe  congenital protein C deficiency 
and  treatment  for  acute  thrombotic  events  in  subjects  with  simple  heterozygous,  acquired  and 
unspecified protein C deficiency: 
In  patients  with  severe  congenital  PC  deficiency  protein  C  concentrate  improved  all  16  purpura 
fulminans  and  all  six  coumarin-induced  skin  necrosis  episodes,  but  only  three  of  the  other  15 
thrombotic  events.  The  treatment  improved  less  than  half  the  latter  episodes  also  in  patients  with 
single  heterozygous,  acquired  or  unknown  deficiency.  However  due  to  the  low  patient  numbers  and 
the  nature  of  the  study  the  effect  of  protein  C  treatment  on  thrombotic  events  other  than  purpura 
fulminans or coumarin induced skin necrosis can not be assessed finally. 
Long-term prophylaxis 
Nine patients are included in the subset of patients on long- term -prophylaxis. Eight of the patients 
are  under  anticoagulation  with  coumarin  and  prophylaxis  with  Protein  C.  For  4  patients  thrombotic 
episodes are reported during long- term treatment. In three patients, these episodes are reportedly due 
to  interruption  of  Protein  C  treatment,  in  one  case,  mild  thrombotic  lesions  occurred  probably  as  a 
consequence of an injury. 
Short-term prophylaxis 
Six  subjects  received  12  short-term  prophylactic  treatments  prior  to  surgery,  for  other  invasive 
procedures or under conditions of increased risk of thrombosis (e.g. pregnancy/childbirth). All patients 
had thrombotic events in their medical history. During short-term prohylaxis and anticoagulation with 
either  heparin  or  coumarine  no  thrombotic  episode  during  treatment  was  observed.  An  extreme 
23/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
variability in dosage and frequency for protein C administration was noted. There was one thrombotic 
complication reported in a patient who developed an asymptomatic catheter thrombosis in association 
with an infected central line. 
Clinical safety 
A  comprehensive  summary  report  has  been  provided  of  adverse  events,  (including  deaths, 
arrhythmia,  chest  pain,  vein  thrombosis),  ECG  and  laboratory  data  (including  anti  protein  C 
antibody,  viral  safety  data  and  liver  function)  in  all  treated  patients  independently  from  their 
diagnosis and the study in which they were involved. 
Adverse Experiences 
Allergic reactions:  
Ten cases of allergic symptoms including hot flushes (1) rash (4) hives (2), erythema, (1), itching (1), 
papular rash(1) were reported.   
Bleeding:  
Twelve  cases  of  adverse  events  indication  a  bleeding  episode  were  reported.  These  reports  include 
bruising (3), gastrointestinal tract bleeding (1), haematemesis (1), hypocoagulable state (1), nosebleed 
(1),  purpura  (1),  pulmonary  haemorrhage  (1),  blood  in  urine  (1),  cerebral  haemorrhage  (1), 
subcuteanous haematoma (1). 
Thrombosis:  
Nine  cases  of  thrombotic  events  were  reported  (thrombosis  (7),  peripheral  ischemia  (1)  and 
thrombosis vena cava inferior (1)). 
Deaths:  
Eight  deaths  occurred  in  the  study  IMAG-039,  IMAG-041  or  under  compassionate  use.  Short 
narratives of this case are provided. None of the death were rated to be related to the study drug. 
One episode of arrythmia, 4 episodes of tachycardia, 3 episodes of hypotension (one of them severe), 
1  episode  of  hypertension,  2  episodes  of  chest  pain  and  8  episodes  of  thrombosis,  including  vein 
thrombosis) were reported; none of the symptoms were considered related to the study drug. 
The most common adverse experience, reported 9 times in a single subject (RDC; subject 0006) with 
severe congenital protein C deficiency, was sepsis from a central venous catheter. 
Viral Safety 
The  clinical  assessment  of  the  viral  safety  of  protein  C  concentrate  is  mainly  derived  from  data 
evaluated  in  the  framework  of  the  Retrospective  Data  Collection.  Data  on  HBs-Ag,  HIV  antibodies 
and hepatitis C antibodies were available for 53 of 79 study subjects. Baseline samples were available 
for 29 subjects. For 25 of 53 subjects, the viral follow-up covered 6  months to 7 years of Protein C 
Concentrate treatment. One subject (0069) was found to be HBsAg positive in 1997. Prior to 1997, the 
subject  received  a  large  amount  of  Fresh  Frozen  Plasma  (FFP)  and  some  infusions  of  CEPROTIN. 
Since there were no baseline measurements for hepatitis B antigen or antibodies for this subject, there 
was  insufficient  data  to  conclude  that  the  seroconversion  was  not  related  to  the  administration  of 
CEPROTIN.  However,  no  other  patient  who  received  that  lot  or  any  other  lot  of  CEPROTIN 
seroconverted for hepatitis B. 
In  the  pharmacokinetic  study,  screening  for  antibodies  and  viral  genome  (by  Polymerase  Chain 
Reaction, PCR) for the viral marker human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2, hepatitis A, B and 
C and parvovirus B-19 were performed in 13 subjects. No related viral transmission or seroconversion 
was observed in any subjects. 
Inhibitory antibodies against Protein C and Anti-murine Antibodies 
Fifteen  subjects  were  evaluable  for  the  assessment  of  development  of  inhibitory  antibodies  against 
protein  C.  The  subjects  received  between  2  to  2,386  Protein  C  Concentrate  infusions,  with  the  total 
24/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amount of product received per subject ranging from 15,840 to 2,160,600 IU Protein C Concentrate. 
No subject was shown to have developed inhibitory antibodies against protein C. 
Seven subjects were followed for anti-murine antibodies between 17 days and approximately 4 years 
after  the  first  Protein  C  Concentrate  administration.  No  baseline  samples  were  available.  All  except 
one  subject  tested  negative  for  anti-murine  antibodies.  This  subject  had  a  test  result  of  30ng/ml 
approximately  2  months  after  the  first  product  administration.  This  test  result  is  within  the  normal 
range, as determined in a cohort of healthy individuals. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
A summary of all adverse signs/symptoms in all three clinical studies has been provided. 
One  hundred  forty  five  adverse  signs/symptoms  (including  eight  deaths,  none  of  which  were 
considered  related  to  the  study  drug)  were  reported  in  all  clinical  studies  (Phase  I/II,  Retrospective 
Data Collection and Pharmacokinetic Study, IMAG-098).  
However,  information  of  the  onset  date  of  the  AEs  in  relation  to  the  infusion  date  is  not  provided. 
Therefore, a final assessment of the relation of the AE to the study drug was not possible. However 
due to the nature of the product for the following AEs a at least theoretical relationship to the study 
drug should be considered: Allergic reactions (10 cases), bleeding (12 cases) and thrombosis (9 cases).  
5. 
• 
Overall conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered satisfactory on the basis of the submitted data and the agreed 
follow-up measures. In particular, viral safety measures include appropriate donor selection, testing of 
donations  and  plasma  pools  for  viral  markers,  and  viral  inactivation/removal  procedures  in  the 
manufacturing  process.  The  manufacture  of  the  product  is  performed  using  appropriately  validated 
processes, which consistently yields a product of quality. 
• 
Non-clinical (pre-clinical studies) 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacological  and  toxicological  documentation  studies  provided  were 
considered to be adequate. 
• 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
CEPROTIN suggests a benefit for the treatment of purpura fulminans and coumarin induced skin 
necrosis in patients with severe protein C deficiency. 
Twelve courses of short-term prophylaxis prior to surgery or invasive therapy and 9 courses of long-
term prophylaxis were included in the efficacy analyses.  
Nine patients are included in the subset of patients on long- term -prophylaxis. Of them 8 are under 
anticoagulation with coumarin and prophylaxis with Protein C. For 4 patients thrombotic episodes are 
reported  during  long-  term  treatment.  In  three  patients,  these  episodes  are  reportedly  due  to  the 
interruption  of  Protein  C  treatment,  in  one  case,  mild  thrombotic  lesions  occurred  probably  as  a 
consequence of an injury 
Safety 
A summary of all adverse signs/symptoms in all three clinical studies was submitted.  
In  the  pharmacokinetic  study,  screening  for  antibodies  and  viral  genome  by  Polymerase  Chain 
Reaction, (PCR) for the viral marker human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2, hepatitis A, B and 
C and parvovirus B-19 were performed in 13 subjects. No related viral transmission or seroconversion 
was observed in any subjects. 
25/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Twenty-two  subjects  were  evaluated  for  the  assessment  of  development  of  inhibitory  antibodies 
against protein C. All except one subject tested negative for anti-murine antibodies. This subject had  
a test result of 30ng/ml approximately 2 months after the first product administration. This test result 
is within the normal range, as determined in a cohort of healthy individuals. 
The safety profile is acceptable. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Since the efficacy/safety profile of this product has not been fully established yet, its use is deemed 
relatively safe and effective only in the severe clinical conditions for which it is indicated. 
The  submitted  data  confirm  that  the  marketing  authorization  can  be  granted  under  exceptional 
circumstances.  
1. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Baxter commits to perform a prospective clinical study in patients with severe congenital 
protein C deficiency. This will be a combined phase I/II study to evaluate: 
Pharmacokinetic properties of CEPROTIN 
Evaluation of safety and efficacy. 
In the treatment of acute episodes of purpura fulminans and/or coumarin induced skin necrosis. 
In the prevention of acute episodes of purpura fulminans and or thrombotic complications in 
situations of high risk. 
This includes dose finding with assessment of markers of coagulation activation such as D-dimers and 
thrombin-antithrombin complex. A separate dosing range (3 doses) will be determined for 
asymptomatic and symptomatic patients.  
The study is estimated to be initiated by Q4 2001 and will take approximately 2 years for completion. 
Baxter commits to provide annual interim reports. 
Baxter will apply for scientific advice before the end of May 2001. 
2. 
The company commits to monitor and report to CPMP all treatment courses as completely as 
possible. Special emphasis will be put on prophylactic use in homozygous and double 
heterozygous patients, especially newborns. The company commits to include the sales figures 
in the PSUR. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered favourable 
by  consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  CEPROTIN  in  the  treatment  of  purpura  fulminans  and 
coumarin induced skin necrosis in patients with severe congenital protein C deficiency. Furthermore 
CEPROTIN  is  indicated  for  short-term  prophylaxis  in  patients  with  severe  congenital  protein  C 
deficiency if one or more of the following conditions are met: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
surgery or invasive therapy is imminent 
while initiating coumarin therapy 
when coumarin therapy alone is not sufficient 
when coumarin therapy is not feasible. 
26/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
