EMA/393107/2018 
EMEA/H/C/003724 
Cerdelga (eliglustat) 
An overview of Cerdelga and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Cerdelga and what is it used for? 
Cerdelga is a medicine used for the long-term treatment of type-1 Gaucher disease in adults.  
Gaucher disease is a genetic condition, in which a fat called glucosylceramide (or glucocerebroside) 
builds up in the body, typically in the liver, spleen and bone. This causes symptoms such as anaemia 
(low red blood cell counts), tiredness, easy bruising, an enlarged spleen and liver, and bone pain and 
fractures. The disease is caused by the lack of an enzyme for breaking down fat. 
Gaucher disease is rare, and Cerdelga was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 4 December 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
Cerdelga contains the active substance eliglustat. 
How is Cerdelga used? 
Cerdelga is available as capsules (84 mg) to be taken by mouth. Before starting treatment, the patient 
is tested to see how rapidly their bodies break down the medicine. Patients who break down the 
medicine at normal speed take 1 capsule twice a day, while those who break down the medicine slowly 
take 1 capsule once a day. 
Patients whose bodies break down this medicine very rapidly (‘ultrarapid metabolisers’) should not take 
Cerdelga. Patients who have not been tested or whom results of the test are not clear should also not 
take this medicine. 
Cerdelga can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the management of Gaucher disease. For more information about using 
Cerdelga, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Cerdelga work? 
The active substance in Cerdelga, eliglustat, works by blocking the action of an enzyme involved in the 
production of the glucosylceramide fat. Because the build-up of this fat in organs like the spleen, liver 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
and bones is responsible for the symptoms of type-1 Gaucher disease, reducing its production helps 
prevent its build-up, and thereby helps the affected organs to function better. 
What benefits of Cerdelga have been shown in studies? 
Studies show that Cerdelga is effective at treating the disease, including reducing the size of enlarged 
spleens and livers. 
In a study of 40 previously untreated patients with type-1 Gaucher disease, patients taking Cerdelga 
had a 28% reduction in spleen size, compared with a 2% increase in those taking placebo (a dummy 
treatment) after 9 months of treatment. Patients who took Cerdelga also showed an improvement of 
other signs of the disease such as a reduction in liver size and increased levels of haemoglobin (the 
protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen). 
Another study looked at Cerdelga in 159 patients whose disease was well controlled by enzyme 
replacement therapy. In this study, the disease remained stable in 85% of patients who switched to 
Cerdelga for a year and in 94% of patients who continued with enzyme replacement therapy. 
What are the risks associated with Cerdelga? 
The most common side effect seen with Cerdelga is dyspepsia (heartburn) in approximately 6 out of 
100 patients. The most common serious side effect is fainting, in 8 out of every 1,000 patients. The 
majority of side effects are mild and short-lived. For the full list of side effects reported for Cerdelga, 
see the package leaflet. 
Cerdelga must not be taken by some patients with liver problems or those taking certain medicines 
that can interfere with the ability of the body to break down the medicine. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Cerdelga authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Cerdelga is effective in improving the symptoms of the disease for a majority of 
previously untreated patients with type-1 Gaucher disease and in keeping the disease stable in most 
patients previously treated by enzyme replacement. However, a minority of patients (about 15%) who 
were switched from enzyme replacement to Cerdelga, did not respond optimally after treatment for 
one year. For these patients other treatment options should be considered. All patients switching from 
enzyme replacement should be regularly monitored for disease progression.  
Regarding safety, side effects were mostly mild and transient, but it was recommended that the long-
term safety of the medicine be further investigated.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Cerdelga’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cerdelga? 
The company that markets Cerdelga will provide doctors and patients with educational materials to 
ensure that only patients with type-1 Gaucher disease are treated with Cerdelga and that Cerdelga is 
not used in some patients with liver problems and together with other medicines which can 
significantly alter its blood levels. All patients who are prescribed Cerdelga will be provided with a 
patient alert card. All healthcare professionals who are expected to prescribe Cerdelga will be provided 
Cerdelga (eliglustat)  
EMA/393107/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
with a prescriber guide. The company will also keep record of patients treated with Cerdelga to look at 
the long-term safety of the medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cerdelga have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Cerdelga are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Cerdelga are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Cerdelga 
Cerdelga received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 January 2015. 
Further information on Cerdelga can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2018. 
Cerdelga (eliglustat)  
EMA/393107/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
