Summary of risk management plan for CERDELGA (Eliglustat) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for CERDELGA. The RMP details 
important risks of CERDELGA how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will 
be obtained about CERDELGA’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
CERDELGA’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how CERDELGA should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for CERDELGA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
CERDELGA’s RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
CERDELGA is authorized for the long-term treatment of adult patients with Gaucher disease type 1 
(GD1). The target population is patients who are Cytochrome P4502D6 poor metabolizers (PMs), 
intermediate metabolizers (IMs) or extensive metabolizers (EMs) (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains eliglustat as the active substance and it is given by oral route of 
administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of CERDELGA’s benefits can be found in CERDELGA’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/cerdelga-epar-medicine-overview_en.pdf 
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of CERDELGA, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about CERDELGA’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of CERDELGA, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, outlined in the next sections. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of CERDELGA is not yet available, it is listed 
under “missing information” outlined in the next section. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of CERDELGA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of CERDELGA. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term 
use of the medicine); 
Table 1 - List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified 
risk 
None 
Important potential 
risks 
Missing information 
Drug-drug interactions - Use with CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibitors - Use with strong 
CYP3A inducers - Use with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or CYP2D6 substrates 
Use of eliglustat in patients who are CYP2D6 indeterminate metabolizers or 
non-genotyped patients 
Cardiac conduction disorders and arrhythmias 
Use in patients with a history of or current cardiac ischemia or heart failure, clinically 
significant arrhythmias or conduction findings 
Use during pregnancy and lactation 
Safety in long-term treatment use 
Use in patients who are CYP2D6 ultra-rapid metabolizers (URMs) 
CYP: Cytochrome P450; P-gp: P-Glycoprotein; URM: Ultra-Rapid Metabolizer. 
II.B 
Summary of important risks  
Table 2 - Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Drug-drug interactions - Use with CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A 
inhibitors - Use with strong CYP3A inducers - Use with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or CYP2D6 substrates  
Important potential risk: Drug-drug interactions - Use with CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A 
inhibitors - Use with strong CYP3A inducers - Use with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or CYP2D6 
substrates 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Drug-drug interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers to investigate 
potential interactions between eliglustat and other drugs that are CYP2D6 or 
CYP3A inhibitors, CYP3A inducers, or P-gp or CYP2D6 substrates. Additionally, 
PBPK simulations were performed to evaluate Genz-99067 exposure under various 
scenarios of co-administration with interacting drug. 
For strong/moderate/weak CYP2D6 inhibitors: GZGD02007; SIM0106; SIM0319 
For strong/moderate/weak CYP3A inhibitors: GZGD01807; SIM0106; SIM0170 
and SIM0183, SIM0319 
Use of strong/moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor and strong/moderate CYP3A 
inhibitor: SIM0105; SIM0106 
For Strong CYP3A inducer: GZGD02407 
For P-gp inhibition: GZGD03610 
For CYP2D6 inhibition: GZGD04112; SIM0105 
Risk factors and risk groups. 
•  Patients with hepatic impairment. 
•  Consumption of grapefruit products (CYP3A inhibitors). 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in sections 2 and 3 of PIL. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
•  Guide for Prescriber. 
•  Patient Alert Card. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Drug utilization study in Europe (ELIGLC06913). 
CYP: Cytochrome P450; PBPK: Physiologically Based Pharmacokinetic; P-gp: P-Glycoprotein; SmPC: Summary of Product 
Characteristics 
 Table 3   Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Use of eliglustat in patients who are CYP2D6 indeterminate 
metabolizers or non-genotyped patients  
Important potential risk: Use of eliglustat in patients who are CYP2D6 indeterminate 
metabolizers or non-genotyped patients 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
POH0373, SIM0105, SIM0183, and clinical studies. 
Risk factors and risk groups. 
Not applicable 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 5.2 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in sections 2 and 3 of PIL. 
•  Before initiation of treatment with CERDELGA, patients should be genotyped for 
CYP2D6 to determine the CYP2D6 metabolizer status. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
Guide for Prescriber 
Important potential risk: Use of eliglustat in patients who are CYP2D6 indeterminate 
metabolizers or non-genotyped patients 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Prospective ICGG safety sub-registry (OBS14099). 
CYP: Cytochrome P450; ICGG: International Collaborative Gaucher Group; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Table 4   Important risks with corresponding risk minimization activities: Cardiac conduction 
disorders and arrhythmias  
Important potential risk: Cardiac conduction disorders and arrhythmias 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
ISS; ISS ECG Report; GZGD00304, GZGD02507; GZGD02607; GZGD03109; 
Aggregate AE Report. 
Risk factors and risk groups. 
Cardiac conduction disorders 
Patients with a prior history of conduction disease are more likely to experience 
blocks. There is an increased risk of first-degree block with increased age as well as 
some medical conditions (eg, ischemic heart disease, congenital heart disease, 
drugs, alcohol use, thyroid disease). Mobitz 1 second degree AV block can occur in 
normal subjects, athletes, older adults, and in patients with certain heart diseases or 
who are taking drugs that block the AV node (eg, digoxin, beta blockers, calcium 
channel blockers).  
Ventricular arrhythmia 
Patients with compromised heart function such as cardiomyopathy, heart failure and 
ischemia are at increased risk for ventricular arrhythmia. Coronary heart disease 
was identified as the underlying cause of 62% of sudden cardiac deaths. Higher 
rates of sudden cardiac death were associated with increased age and male 
gender. a 
Patients with congenital long QT syndrome are at greater risk for a long QTc 
interval. The use of medications that are known torsadogens or potential 
torsadogens are also known to increase the QTc interval, which may put a patient at 
increased risk of Torsade de Pointes. The effect of taking multiple drugs may be 
additive.  
Use of concomitant CYP2D6 and CYP3A inhibitors 
Extensive metabolizers and IMs using concomitant strong or moderate CYP2D6 
inhibitors together with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors, and PMs using a 
strong CYP3A inhibitor are at increased risk to achieve substantially elevated 
eliglustat exposure which could potentially lead to increases in ECG intervals.  
Hepatic impairment 
Since metabolism is the predominant route of elimination, CYP2D6 IM and PM 
patients with any degree of HI and CYP2D6 EM patients with moderate and severe 
HI, as well as CYP2D6 EM patients with mild HI using a strong or moderate 
CYP2D6 inhibitor, are at increased risk to achieve substantially elevated eliglustat 
exposure which could potentially lead to increases in ECG intervals. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in section 2 of PIL. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
a  Zheng ZJ, Croft JB, Giles WH, Mensah GA. Sudden cardiac death in the United States, 1989 to 1998. Circul. 2001 Oct 
30;104(18):2158-63. 
AE: Adverse Event; AV: Atrioventricular; CYP: Cytochrome P450; ECG: Electrocardiogram; EM: Extensive Metabolizer; HI: Hepatic 
Impairment; IM: Intermediate Metabolizer; ISS: Integrated Safety Summary; PM: Poor Metabolizer; PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; 
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Table 5 - Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities: Use in patients with a 
history of or current cardiac ischemia or heart failure, clinically significant arrhythmias or conduction 
findings  
Missing Information: Use in patients with a history of or current cardiac ischemia or heart 
failure, clinically significant arrhythmias or conduction findings 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in section 4.4 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in section 2 of PIL. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 6   Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities: Use during pregnancy 
and lactation  
Missing information: Use during pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in section 4.6 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in section 2 of PIL. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 7   Missing information with corresponding additional pharmacovigilance activities: Safety in 
long-term treatment use  
Missing information: Safety in long-term treatment use 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Prospective ICGG safety sub-registry (OBS14099). 
ICGG: International Collaborative Gaucher Group. 
 Table 8   Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Use in patients who are CYP2D6 ultra-rapid metabolizers (URMs) 
Missing information: Use in patients who are CYP2D6 ultra-rapid metabolizers (URMs) 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  Labeled in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of SmPC. 
•  Labeled in section 2 of PIL. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Prospective ICGG safety sub registry (OBS14099). 
ICGG: International Collaborative Gaucher Group; PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics; URM: 
Ultra-Rapid Metabolizer. 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorization: 
Table 9 - Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
Prospective ICGG safety sub-registry (OBS14099) 
Purpose of the study: 
A prospective ICGG safety sub registry to characterize the long-term safety profile of eliglustat. 
To describe the patient’s characteristics and utilization patterns. 
ICGG: International Collaborative Gaucher Group. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
Table 10 - Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
Drug utilization study of eliglustat in Europe using electronic healthcare records 
(ELIGLC06913) 
Purpose of the study: 
To assess compliance/adherence to the labeling with regard to drug-drug interactions. 
 
 
