ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Cerezyme 400 Units Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 400 units* of imiglucerase**.  
After reconstitution, the solution contains 40 units (approximately 1.0 mg) of imiglucerase per ml 
(400 U/10 ml).  Each vial must be further diluted before use (see section 6.6).  
* An enzyme unit (U) is defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of one 
micromole of the synthetic substrate para-nitrophenyl -D-glucopyranoside (pNP-Glc) per minute at 
37°C. 
** Imiglucerase is a modified form of human acid -glucosidase and is produced by recombinant 
DNA technology using a mammalian Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell culture, with mannose 
modification for targeting macrophages. 
Excipients with known effect: 
Each vial contains 41 mg of sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Cerezyme is a white to off-white powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Cerezyme (imiglucerase) is indicated for use as long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients 
with a confirmed diagnosis of non-neuronopathic (Type 1) or chronic neuronopathic (Type 3) Gaucher 
disease who exhibit clinically significant non-neurological manifestations of the disease. 
The non-neurological manifestations of Gaucher disease include one or more of the following 
conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anaemia after exclusion of other causes, such as iron deficiency 
thrombocytopenia 
bone disease after exclusion of other causes such as Vitamin D deficiency 
hepatomegaly or splenomegaly 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Disease management should be directed by physicians knowledgeable in the treatment of Gaucher 
disease. 
Posology 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the heterogeneity and the multi-systemic nature of Gaucher disease, dosage should be 
individualised for each patient based on a comprehensive evaluation of all clinical manifestations of 
the disease. Once individual patient response for all relevant clinical manifestations is well-
established, dosages and frequency of administration may be adjusted with the goal to either maintain 
already reached optimal parameters for all clinical manifestations or further improve those clinical 
parameters which have not yet been normalised. 
A range of dosage regimens has proven effective towards some or all of the non-neurological 
manifestations of the disease. Initial doses of 60 U/kg of body weight once every 2 weeks have shown 
improvement in haematological and visceral parameters within 6 months of therapy and continued use 
has either stopped progression of or improved bone disease. Administration of doses as low as 
15 U/kg of body weight once every 2 weeks has been shown to improve haematological parameters 
and organomegaly, but not bone parameters. The usual frequency of infusion is once every 2 weeks; 
this is the frequency of infusion for which the most data are available.  
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is necessary for the paediatric population. 
The efficacy of Cerezyme on neurological symptoms of chronic neuronopathic Gaucher patients has 
not been established and no special dosage regimen can be recommended for these manifestations (see 
section 5.1). 
Method of administration 
After reconstitution and dilution, the preparation is administered by intravenous infusion. At initial 
infusions, Cerezyme should be administered at a rate not exceeding 0.5 unit per kg body weight per 
minute. At subsequent administrations, infusion rate may be increased but should not exceed 1 unit per 
kg body weight per minute. Infusion rate increases should occur under supervision of a health care 
professional. 
Infusion of Cerezyme at home may be considered for patients who are tolerating their infusions well 
for several months. Decision to have patient move to home infusion should be made after evaluation 
and recommendation by the treating physician. Infusion of Cerezyme by the patient or caregiver at 
home requires training by a health care professional in a clinical setting. The patient or caregiver will 
be instructed in infusion technique and the keeping of a treatment diary. Patients experiencing adverse 
events during the infusion need to immediately stop the infusion process and seek the attention of a 
healthcare professional. Subsequent infusions may need to occur in a clinical setting. Dose and 
infusion rate should remain constant while at home, and not be changed without supervision of a 
health care professional. 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
Medical or healthcare professionals are encouraged to register Gaucher patients, including those with 
chronic neuronopathic manifestations of the disease, in the “ICGG Gaucher Registry” (see 
section 5.1). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypersensitivity 
Current data using a screening ELISA followed by a confirmatory radioimmunoprecipitation assay, 
suggest that, during the first year of therapy, IgG antibodies to imiglucerase are formed in 
approximately 15% of the treated patients. It appears that patients who will develop IgG antibody are 
most likely to do so within 6 months of treatment and will rarely develop antibodies to Cerezyme after 
12 months of therapy. It is suggested that patients suspected of a decreased response to the treatment 
be monitored periodically for IgG antibody formation to imiglucerase. 
Patients with antibody to imiglucerase have a higher risk of hypersensitivity reactions (see 
section 4.8). If a patient experiences a reaction suggestive of hypersensitivity, subsequent testing for 
imiglucerase antibodies is advised. As with any intravenous protein product, severe allergic-type 
hypersensitivity reactions are possible, but occur uncommonly.  If these reactions occur, immediate 
discontinuation of the Cerezyme infusion is recommended and appropriate medical treatment should 
be initiated.  The current medical standards for emergency treatment are to be observed.  
Patients who have developed antibodies or symptoms of hypersensitivity to Ceredase (alglucerase) 
should be treated with caution when administering Cerezyme (imiglucerase). 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains 41 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 2% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. It is administered in 0.9% sodium chloride 
intravenous solution (see section 6.6). To be taken into consideration by patients on a controlled 
sodium diet.  
Applicant Proposal:  
The Applicant would like to propose correction of the sodium content to clarify the sodium quantity 
per vial i.e. 41 mg. The Applicant considers that the corrected quantity will better aid management of 
patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
The Patient leaflet text is also proposed for revision aligned with the SmPC revision. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Limited experience from 150 pregnancy outcomes (primarily based on spontaneous reporting and 
literature review) is available suggesting that use of Cerezyme is beneficial to control the underlying 
Gaucher disease in pregnancy. Furthermore, these data indicate no malformative toxicity for the foetus 
by Cerezyme, although the statistical evidence is low. Foetal demise has been reported rarely, 
although it is not clear whether this related to the use of Cerezyme or to the underlying Gaucher 
disease. 
No animal studies have been carried out with respect to assessing the effects of Cerezyme on 
pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition and postnatal development. It is not known 
whether Cerezyme passes via the placenta to the developing foetus. 
In pregnant Gaucher patients and those intending to become pregnant, a risk-benefit treatment 
assessment is required for each pregnancy. Patients who have Gaucher disease and become pregnant 
may experience a period of increased disease activity during pregnancy and the puerperium. This 
includes an increased risk of skeletal manifestations, exacerbation of cytopenia, haemorrhage, and an 
increased need for transfusion. Both pregnancy and lactation are known to stress maternal calcium 
homeostasis and to accelerate bone turnover. This may contribute to skeletal disease burden in 
Gaucher disease.  
Treatment naïve women should be advised to consider commencing therapy prior to conception in 
order to attain optimal health. In women receiving Cerezyme treatment continuation throughout 
pregnancy should be considered. Close monitoring of the pregnancy and clinical manifestations of 
Gaucher disease is necessary for the individualization of dose according to the patient’s needs and 
therapeutic response.  
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether this active substance is excreted in human milk, however, the enzyme is likely 
to be digested in the child’s gastrointestinal tract 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Cerezyme has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class and frequency (common (1/100 to <1/10),  
uncommon (1/1,000 to <1/100) and rare (1/10,000 to <1/1,000)) in the table below. Within each 
frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.  
MedDRA System Organ 
Class 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Dizziness, 
headache, 
paraesthesia* 
Tachycardia*, 
cyanosis* 
Flushing*,  
hypotension* 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dyspnoea*, coughing* 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Urticaria/angioedema*, 
pruritus*, rash* 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue  
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Anaphylactoid 
reactions 
Vomiting, nausea, 
abdominal 
cramping, diarrhoea 
Arthralgia, 
backache* 
Infusion site 
discomfort, infusion 
site burning, 
infusion site 
swelling, injection 
site sterile abscess, 
chest discomfort*, 
fever, rigors, fatigue 
Symptoms suggestive of hypersensitivity (* marked in the table above) have been noted, overall in 
approximately 3% of the patients. Onset of such symptoms has occurred during or shortly after 
infusions.  These symptoms generally respond to treatment with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids.  
Patients should be advised to discontinue infusion of the product and contact their physician if these 
symptoms occur. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of overdose has been reported. In patients dosages up to 240 U/kg body weight once every 
two weeks have been used. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  Enzymes-Imiglucerase (recombinant macrophage targeted -
glucocerebrosidase), ATC code: A16AB02. 
Mechanism of action 
Gaucher disease is a rare recessively inherited metabolic disorder that results from a deficiency of the 
lysosomal enzyme acid -glucosidase. This enzyme breaks down glucosylceramide, a key component 
of the lipid structure of cell membranes, into glucose and ceramide. In individuals with Gaucher 
disease, glucosylceramide degradation is insufficient, leading to accumulation of large quantities of 
this substrate within the lysosomes of macrophages (termed ‘Gaucher cells’), leading to widespread 
secondary pathology.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gaucher cells are typically found in liver, spleen and bone marrow and occasionally in lung, kidney 
and intestine. Clinically, Gaucher disease is a heterogeneous phenotypic spectrum. The most frequent 
disease manifestations are hepatosplenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, and skeletal pathology, 
The skeletal abnormalities are frequently the most debilitating and disabling features of Gaucher 
disease. These skeletal manifestations include bone marrow infiltration, osteonecrosis, bone pain and 
bone crises, osteopenia and osteoporosis, pathological fractures, and growth impairment. Gaucher 
disease is associated with increased glucose production and increased resting energy expenditure rate, 
which may contribute to fatigue and cachexia. Patients with Gaucher disease may also have a low 
grade inflammatory profile. In addition, Gaucher disease has been associated with an increased risk of 
immunoglobulin abnormalities such as hyperimmunoglobulinemia, polyclonal gammopathy, 
monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and multiple myeloma. The natural 
history of Gaucher disease usually shows progression, with the risk of irreversible complications 
arising in various organs over time. The clinical manifestations of Gaucher disease can adversely 
affect quality of life. Gaucher disease is associated with increased morbidity and early mortality.  
Signs and symptoms presenting in childhood typically represent more severe Gaucher disease. In 
children, Gaucher disease can lead to growth retardation and delayed puberty. 
Pulmonary hypertension is a known complication of Gaucher disease. Patients who have undergone a 
splenectomy have an increased risk of pulmonary hypertension. Cerezyme therapy reduces the 
requirement for splenectomy in most cases and early treatment with Cerezyme has been associated 
with a reduced risk of pulmonary hypertension. Routine evaluation to detect the presence of 
pulmonary hypertension after diagnosis of Gaucher disease and over time is recommended. Patients 
diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension, in particular, should receive adequate doses of Cerezyme to 
ensure control of underlying Gaucher disease as well as be evaluated for the need of additional 
pulmonary hypertension specific treatments.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Imiglucerase (recombinant macrophage targeted acid ß-glucosidase) replaces the deficient enzyme 
activity, hydrolysing glucosylceramide, thus correcting initial pathophysiology and preventing 
secondary pathology. Cerezyme reduces spleen and liver size, improves or normalises 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia, improves or normalises bone mineral density and bone marrow 
burden, and reduces or eliminates bone pain and bone crises. Cerezyme reduces resting energy 
expenditure rate. Cerezyme has been shown to improve both mental and physical aspects in the quality 
of life of Gaucher disease. Cerezyme decreases chitotriosidase, a biomarker for glucosylceramide 
accumulation in macrophages and response to treatment. In children, Cerezyme has been shown to 
enable normal pubertal development, and to induce catch-up growth, leading to normal height and 
bone mineral density in adulthood. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The rate and extent of response to Cerezyme treatment is dose-dependent. Generally, improvements in 
organ systems with a faster turnover rate, such as the haematological, can be noted far more rapidly 
than in those with a slower turnover, such as the bone. 
In an ICGG Gaucher Registry analysis of a large cohort of patients (n=528) with Gaucher disease 
type 1, a time- and dose-dependent effect for Cerezyme was observed for haematological and visceral 
parameters (platelet count, haemoglobin concentration, spleen and liver volume) within the dose range 
of 15, 30 and 60 U/kg body weight once every 2 weeks. Patients treated with 60 U/kg body weight 
every 2 weeks showed a faster improvement and a greater maximum treatment effect as compared to 
patients receiving the lower doses.  
Similarly, in an ICGG Gaucher Registry analysis of bone mineral density using dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) in 342 patients, after 8 years of treatment normal bone mineral density was 
achieved with a Cerezyme dose of 60 U/kg body weight once every 2 weeks, but not with lower doses 
of 15 and 30 U/kg body weight once every 2 weeks (Wenstrup et al, 2007).   
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a study investigating 2 cohorts of patients treated with a median dose of 80 U/kg body weight every 
4 weeks and a median dose of 30 U/kg body weight every 4 weeks, among the patients with bone 
marrow burden score  6, more patients in the higher dose cohort (33%; n=22) achieved a decrease in 
the score of 2 points after 24 months of Cerezyme treatment compared with patients in the lower dose 
cohort (10%; n=13) (de Fost et al, 2006). 
Treatment with Cerezyme at a dose of 60 U/kg body weight once every 2 weeks, showed 
improvement in bone pain as early as 3 months, decrease in bone crises within 12 months, and 
improvement in bone mineral density after 24 months of treatment (Sims et al, 2008). 
The usual frequency of infusion is once every 2 weeks (see section 4.2). Maintenance therapy every 4 
weeks (Q4) at the same cumulative dose as the bi-weekly (Q2) dose has been studied in adult patients 
with stable residual Gaucher disease type 1. Changes from baseline in hemoglobin, platelets, liver and 
spleen volumes, bone crisis, and bone disease comprised a predefined composite endpoint; 
achievement or maintenance of established Gaucher disease therapeutic goals for the hematologic and 
visceral parameters comprised an additional endpoint. Sixty-three percent of Q4- and 81% of Q2-
treated patients met the composite endpoint at Month 24; the difference was not statistically significant 
based on the 95% CI (-0.357, 0.058). Eighty-nine percent of Q4- and 100% of Q2-treated patients met 
the therapeutic goals-based endpoint; the difference was not statistically significant based on the 95% 
CI (-0.231, 0.060). A Q4 infusion regimen may be a therapeutic option for some adult patients with 
stable residual Gaucher disease type 1, but clinical data are limited.  
No controlled clinical studies have been conducted on the efficacy of Cerezyme on neurological 
manifestations of the disease. Therefore no conclusions on the effect of enzyme replacement therapy 
on the neurological manifestations of the disease can be drawn. 
Medical or healthcare professionals are encouraged to register Gaucher patients, including those with 
chronic neuronopathic manifestations of the disease, in the “ICGG Gaucher Registry”. Patient data 
will be anonymously collected in this Registry. The objectives of the “ICGG Gaucher Registry” are to 
enhance the understanding of Gaucher disease and to evaluate the effectiveness of enzyme 
replacement therapy, ultimately leading to improvement in the safe and efficacious use of Cerezyme. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
During 1 hour intravenous infusions of 4 doses (7.5, 15, 30, 60 U/kg) of imiglucerase, steady-state 
enzymatic activity was achieved by 30 minutes. Following infusion, plasma enzymatic activity 
declined rapidly with a half-life ranging from 3.6 to 10.4 minutes. Plasma clearance ranged from 9.8 to 
20.3 ml/min/kg, (mean ± S.D, 14.5 ± 4.0 ml/min/kg). The volume of distribution corrected for weight 
ranged from 0.09 to 0.15 l/kg (mean ± S.D 0.12 ± 0.02 l/kg). These variables do not appear to be 
influenced by dose or duration of infusion, however, only 1 or 2 patients were studied at each dose 
level and infusion rate. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Mannitol,  
sodium citrate (to adjust pH), 
citric acid monohydrate (to adjust pH),  
8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
polysorbate 80. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vials: 
3 years 
Diluted solution: 
From a microbiological safety point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should 
not be longer than 24 hours at 2C - 8C under protection from light. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C).  
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cerezyme is supplied in type I borosilicate (clear) glass 20 ml vials. The closure consists of a 
siliconised butyl stopper with a tamper proof flip-off cap. 
To provide sufficient volume to allow accurate dispensing, each vial is formulated to contain an 
overfill of 0.6 ml. 
Pack sizes: 1, 5 or 25 vials per carton. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each vial of Cerezyme is for single use only.  
The powder for concentrate for solution for infusion has to be reconstituted with water for injections, 
diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride intravenous solution and then administered by intravenous 
infusion. 
Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the individual patient's dosage regimen and 
remove the vials from the refrigerator. 
Occasionally, small dosage adjustments may be made to avoid discarding partially used vials. Dosages 
may be rounded to the nearest full vial, as long as the monthly administered dosage remains 
substantially unaltered. 
Use Aseptic Technique  
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute each vial with 10.2 ml water for injections; avoid forceful impact of water for injections 
on the powder and, by mixing gently, avoid foaming of the solution. The reconstituted volume is  
10.6 ml. The pH of the reconstituted solution is approximately 6.2. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After reconstitution it is a clear, colourless liquid, free from foreign matter. The reconstituted solution 
must be further diluted. Before further dilution, visually inspect the reconstituted solution in each vial 
for foreign particles and discoloration. Do not use vials exhibiting foreign particles or discoloration. 
After reconstitution, promptly dilute vials and do not store for subsequent use. 
Dilution 
The reconstituted solution contains 40 units imiglucerase per ml. The reconstituted volume allows 
accurate withdrawal of 10.0 ml (equal to 400 units) from each vial. Withdraw 10.0 ml reconstituted 
solution from each vial and combine the withdrawn volumes. Then dilute the combined volumes with 
0.9% sodium chloride intravenous solution to a total volume of 100 to 200 ml. Mix the infusion 
solution gently. 
Administration 
It is recommended to administer the diluted solution through an in-line low protein-binding 0.2 µm 
filter to remove any protein particles. This will not lead to any loss of imiglucerase activity. It is 
recommended that the diluted solution be administered within 3 hours. The product diluted in 0.9% 
sodium chloride intravenous solution will retain chemical stability if stored up to 24 hours at 2°C and 
8°C under protection from light; but microbiological safety will depend on the reconstitution and 
dilution having been performed aseptically. 
Cerezyme contains no preservatives. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP, Amsterdam, the Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/97/053/003   
EU/1/97/053/004   
EU/1/97/053/005   
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 17 November 1997 
Date of latest renewal: 17 September 2007 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C. 
D. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
Resilience US, Inc., 500 Soldiers Field Road, Allston, MA 02134, United States 
Lonza Biologics Inc., 101 International Drive, Portsmouth, NH 03801, United States 
Genzyme Corporation, 8, 45, 68, 74, 80 New York Avenue, Framingham, MA 01701, United States 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Genzyme Ireland Limited., IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Educational materials for the use of Cerezyme in home infusion, consisting of: 
•  Manual for patients with Gaucher disease who receive home infusion; 
•  Guide for Healthcare Professionals Treating Patients with Gaucher Disease. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON (1 VIAL, 5 VIALS, 25 VIALS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Cerezyme 400 Units Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
imiglucerase 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each vial contains 400 units of imiglucerase. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: mannitol, sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate and polysorbate 80. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
5 vials of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
25 vials of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For single use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS 
OR  WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS,  IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused solution should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25–1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORIZATION NUMBERS  
EU/1/97/053/003 1 vial of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
EU/1/97/053/004 5 vials of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
EU/1/97/053/005 25 vial of powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Cerezyme 400 U  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL / VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Cerezyme 400 Units Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
imiglucerase 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Each vial contains 400 units of imiglucerase. 
6. 
OTHER 
Sanofi B.V. - NL 
Store in a refrigerator. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Cerezyme 400 Units powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Imiglucerase 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Cerezyme is and what it is used for. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cerezyme. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Cerezyme is given. 
Possible side effects. 
How Cerezyme is stored. 
Contents of the pack and other information.  
1.  What Cerezyme is and what it is used for 
Cerezyme contains the active substance imiglucerase and is used to treat patients who have a 
confirmed diagnosis of Type I or Type 3 Gaucher disease, who show signs of the disease such as: 
anaemia (low number of red blood cells), a tendency to bleed easily (due to low numbers of platelets – 
a type of blood cell), spleen or liver enlargement or bone disease. 
People with Gaucher disease have low levels of an enzyme called acid -glucosidase. This enzyme 
helps the body control levels of glucosylceramide. Glucosylceramide is a natural substance in the 
body, made of sugar and fat. In Gaucher disease glucosylceramide levels can get too high. 
Cerezyme is an artificial enzyme called imiglucerase - this can replace the natural enzyme acid 
-glucosidase which is lacking or not active enough in patients with Gaucher disease. 
The information in this leaflet applies to all patient groups including children, adolescents, adults and 
the elderly. 
2. 
   What you need to know before you are given Cerezyme 
Do not use Cerezyme 
- 
section 6). 
if you are allergic to imiglucerase or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor  or pharmacist before using Cerezyme: 
- 
- 
if you are treated with Cerezyme, you may experience an allergic reaction while you are being 
given the medicine or shortly after. If you experience a reaction like this, you should tell your 
doctor immediately. Your doctor may test if you have an allergic reaction to imiglucerase. 
some patients with Gaucher disease have high blood pressure in the lungs (pulmonary 
hypertension). The cause can be unknown, or it can be due to heart, lung or liver problems. It 
can occur whether the patient is treated with Cerezyme or not. But, if you suffer with any 
shortness of breath you should tell your doctor. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Cerezyme 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, including 
medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Cerezyme should not be given as a mixture with other medicinal products in the same infusion (drip). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Cautious use of Cerezyme during 
pregnancy and breastfeeding is recommended. 
Cerezyme contains sodium  
This medicine contains 41 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) per vial. This is 
equivalent to 2% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. It is 
administered in 0.9% sodium chloride intravenous solution. This should be taken into consideration by 
patients on a controlled sodium diet.  
3.  How Cerezyme is given 
Instructions for proper use 
Cerezyme is given through a drip into a vein (by intravenous infusion). 
It is supplied as a powder which will be mixed with sterile water before it is given. 
Cerezyme is only used under the supervision of a doctor who is knowledgeable in the treatment of 
Gaucher disease. Your doctor may advise that you can be treated at home provided you meet certain 
criteria. Please contact your doctor if you would like to be treated at home. 
Your dose will be specific to you. Your doctor will work out your dose based on how severe your 
symptoms are, and other factors. The recommended dose is 60 units/kg body weight given once every 
2 weeks.  
Your doctor will keep a close check on your response to your treatment, and may change your dose 
(up or down) until he/she finds the best dose to control your symptoms.  
Once this dose is found your doctor will still keep a check on your responses to make sure you are 
using the right dose. This might be every 6 to 12 months. 
There is no information on the effect of Cerezyme on brain-based symptoms of patients with chronic 
neuronopathic Gaucher disease. Therefore no special dosage regimen can be recommended. 
The ICGG Gaucher Registry 
You can ask your doctor to register your patient information into the “ICGG Gaucher Registry”. The 
aims of this Registry are to increase the understanding of Gaucher disease and to check how well 
enzyme replacement therapy, like Cerezyme, works. This should lead to improvement in the safe and 
effective use of Cerezyme.  Your patient data will be registered anonymously– nobody will know it is 
information about you. 
If you use more Cerezyme than you should 
There are no cases of overdose of Cerezyme reported. 
If you forget to use Cerezyme 
If you have missed an infusion, please contact your doctor. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
breathlessness 
coughing 
hives/ localised swelling of the skin or lining of the mouth or throat  
itching 
rash 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
dizziness 
headache 
a sensation of tingling, pricking, burning or numbness of the skin 
increased heart rate 
bluish skin 
flushing 
fall in blood pressure 
vomiting 
nausea 
abdominal cramping 
diarrhoea 
pain in the joints 
infusion site discomfort 
infusion site burning 
infusion site swelling 
injection site sterile abscess 
chest discomfort 
fever 
rigors 
fatigue 
backache 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
- 
anaphylactoid reactions 
Some side effects were seen primarily while patients were being given the medicine or shortly after. 
These have included itching, flushing, hives/localised swelling of the skin or lining of the mouth or 
throat, chest discomfort, increased heart rate, bluish skin, breathlessness, a sensation of tingling, 
pricking, burning or numbness of the skin, fall in blood pressure and backache.  If you experience any 
of these symptoms, please tell your doctor immediately. You may need to be given additional 
medicines to prevent an allergic reaction (e.g. antihistamines and/or corticosteroids).  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How Cerezyme is stored 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date printed on the labelling after the letters “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials: 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C) 
Diluted solution: 
It is recommended that Cerezyme is used immediately after it has been mixed with sterile water. The 
mixed solution in the vial cannot be stored and should be promptly diluted in an infusion bag; only the 
diluted solution can be held for up to 24 hours if it is kept cool (2°C – 8°C) and in the dark. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Cerezyme contains 
- 
The active substance is imiglucerase. Imiglucerase is a modified form of the human enzyme 
acid -glucosidase produced by recombinant DNA technology. One vial contains 400 units of 
imiglucerase. After reconstitution, the solution contains 40 units of imiglucerase per ml.  
The other ingredients are: mannitol, sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate and polysorbate 80. 
- 
What Cerezyme looks like and contents of the pack 
Cerezyme, 400 Units, is presented as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (in a vial, pack 
size of 1, 5 or 25).  Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Cerezyme is supplied as a white to off-white powder. After reconstitution it is a clear, colourless 
liquid, free from foreign matter. The reconstituted solution must be further diluted.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Sanofi B.V., Paasheuvelweg 25, 1105 BP, Amsterdam, the Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Genzyme Ireland Limited., IDA Industrial Park, Old Kilmeaden Road, Waterford, Ireland 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: + 32 2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S  
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel: 0800 04 36 996 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 70 13 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ  
Tel: +372 640 10 30 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
+39 02 39394275 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: + 47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 80 185 - 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE  
Τηλ: +30 210 900 1600 
Portugal 
Sanofi – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger : +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Hrvatska 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o.  
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 208 33 600 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 201 200 300 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 536 389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA  
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel: +370 5 236 91 40 
This leaflet was last revised in:  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions for use – reconstitution, dilution and administration 
Each vial of Cerezyme is for single use only. After reconstitution, each vial of Cerezyme contains 400 
units of imiglucerase in 10.0 ml (40 units per ml). 
Determine the number of vials to be reconstituted based on the individual patient's dosage regimen and 
remove the vials from the refrigerator. 
Use Aseptic Technique  
Reconstitution 
Reconstitute each vial with 10.2 ml water for injections; avoid forceful impact of water for injections 
on the powder and, by mixing gently, avoid foaming of the solution. The reconstituted volume is  
10.6 ml. The pH of the reconstituted solution is approximately 6.2. 
After reconstitution it is a clear, colourless liquid, free from foreign matter. The reconstituted solution 
must be further diluted. Before further dilution, visually inspect the reconstituted solution in each vial 
for foreign particles and discoloration. Do not use vials exhibiting foreign particles or discoloration. 
After reconstitution, promptly dilute vials and do not store for subsequent use. 
Dilution 
The reconstituted solution contains 40 units imiglucerase per ml. The reconstituted volume allows 
accurate withdrawal of 10.0 ml (equal to 400 units) from each vial. Withdraw 10.0 ml reconstituted 
solution from each vial and combine the withdrawn volumes. Then dilute the combined volumes with 
0.9% sodium chloride intravenous solution to a total volume of 100 to 200 ml. Mix the infusion 
solution gently. 
Administration 
It is recommended to administer the diluted solution through an in-line low protein-binding 0.2 µm 
filter to remove any protein particles. This will not lead to any loss of imiglucerase activity. It is 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended that the diluted solution be administered within 3 hours. The product diluted in 0.9% 
sodium chloride intravenous solution will retain chemical stability if stored up to 24 hours at 2°C and 
8°C under protection from light; but microbiological safety will depend on the reconstitution and 
dilution having been performed aseptically. 
Cerezyme contains no preservatives. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
25 
 
 
 
 
