EMA/498833/2010  
EMEA/H/C/000157 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cerezyme 
imiglucerase 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cerezyme. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Cerezyme. 
What is Cerezyme? 
Cerezyme is a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (a drip into a vein). It contains the 
active substance imiglucerase. 
What is Cerezyme used for? 
Cerezyme is used for the long-term treatment of patients with Gaucher disease. Gaucher disease is a 
rare inherited disorder, in which people do not have enough of an enzyme called acid beta-glucosidase, 
which normally breaks down a fatty waste product called glucosylceramide. Without the enzyme, 
glucosylceramide builds up in the body, typically in the liver, spleen and bone marrow, which produces 
the symptoms of the disease: anaemia (low red blood cell counts), tiredness, easy bruising and a 
tendency to bleed, an enlarged spleen and liver, and bone pain and breaks. 
Cerezyme is used in patients who have type 1 Gaucher disease, which does not affect the nerve cells, 
or type 3 Gaucher disease, which progresses slowly and affects the nerve cells. The patients must have 
symptoms that are not affecting the nervous system, including one or more of the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anaemia; 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts); 
bone disease; 
an enlarged liver or spleen. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Cerezyme used? 
Patients with Gaucher disease should be managed by doctors who are knowledgeable about the 
disease’s treatment. Cerezyme is usually given by infusion every two weeks. The dose and how often 
the infusions are given need to be adjusted according to each individual patient’s symptoms and 
response to treatment. The first few infusions should be given slowly, but after these, the speed of 
infusion can be increased under the supervision of a doctor or nurse. After training, the patient or carer 
can give the infusion at home, if their doctor believes it is appropriate. 
How does Cerezyme work? 
Gaucher disease has previously been treated using an enzyme called alglucerase, which was prepared 
from human placentas. Imiglucerase, the active substance in Cerezyme, is a copy of this enzyme, 
which is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: the enzyme is made by a cell 
that has received a gene (DNA), which enables it to produce the enzyme. Imiglucerase replaces the 
missing enzyme in Gaucher disease, helping to break down glucosylceramide and stopping it building 
up in the body. 
How has Cerezyme been studied? 
For type 1 Gaucher disease, Cerezyme has been studied in three studies involving a total of 40 
patients. This is an acceptable number because the disease is rare. The studies compared the ability of 
Cerezyme and alglucerase to control the symptoms of the disease, such as increasing the number of 
red blood cells and platelets in the blood, and decreasing the size of the liver and spleen. 
For type 3 Gaucher disease, which is extremely rare, the company presented data from published 
articles and from a special register of Gaucher disease patients. 
What benefit has Cerezyme shown during the studies? 
The studies have shown that Cerezyme is as safe and effective as alglucerase in controlling the 
symptoms of Gaucher disease. It has also been shown that patients may safely switch from alglucerase 
to Cerezyme treatment. 
What is the risk associated with Cerezyme? 
The most common side effects with Cerezyme (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), coughing, urticaria (hives) or angioedema (swelling beneath the skin), 
pruritus (itching), rash and hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Cerezyme, see the package leaflet. Patients can develop antibodies (proteins that are 
produced in response to Cerezyme and can affect treatment) and they should be monitored for any 
allergic reactions to Cerezyme. 
Cerezyme should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to imiglucerase or any of 
the other ingredients. 
Cerezyme  
EMA/607691/2010  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Why has Cerezyme been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Cerezyme gives effective control of the non-neurological symptoms of types 1 
and 3 Gaucher disease. The Committee decided that Cerezyme’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Cerezyme: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cerezyme to Genzyme Europe B.V. on 17 November 1997. The marketing authorisation is valid for an 
unlimited period. 
The full EPAR for Cerezyme can be found here. For more information about treatment with Cerezyme, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2010. 
Cerezyme  
EMA/607691/2010  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
