SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Cerezyme. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  01  August  2003.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
is  characterised  by 
in  an  autosomal  recessive  manner.  It 
Gaucher disease, also called glucosylceramide lipidosis or ß-glucocerebrosidase (GCR) deficiency, is 
the  most  common  of  the  sphingolipidoses  or  lipid  storage  diseases,  a  group  of  diseases  that  are 
inherited 
the  accumulation  of 
glucocerebroside in tissue macrophages. Gaucher disease presents in three subtypes: type 1, the non-
neuronopathic form; type 2, the acute neuronopathic form; and 3, the chronic neuronopathic form. Of 
these,  type  1,  non-neuronopathic  form,  is  the  most  frequent  and  type  2,  acute  neuronopathic,  is  the 
least  frequent.  It  has  been  estimated  that  type  1  Gaucher  disease  affects  more  than  20,000  patients 
world-wide.  The  clinical  features  of  Gaucher  disease  include  anaemia  and  thrombocytopenia  due  to 
splenic  sequestration  and  bone  marrow  replacement  by  accumulating  Gaucher  cells.  Splenomegaly 
and hepatomegaly are other frequent signs. Skeletal disease eventually leading to pain, stress fractures 
and osteonecrosis are common symptoms in type 1 and 3 Gaucher disease. The neuronopathic forms 
also  present  neurological  abnormalities  such  as  seizures,  dementia,  spasticity,  ataxia  and  loss  of 
intellectual functions. 
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) of Gaucher disease has been made feasible by the introduction of 
mannose-terminated ß-glucocerebrosidase. Mannose is a sugar, which is abundant on the surfaces of 
micro-organisms.  It  may  be  bound  by  the  mannose  receptor  of  macrophages.  The  mannose-
termination of ß-glucocerebrosidase leads to a selective uptake of the enzyme by macrophages that are 
present in liver, spleen and skeleton. 
Alglucerase was the first mannose-terminated ß-glucocerebrosidase designed for enzyme replacement 
therapy in Gaucher disease. Alglucerase is the active ingredient of Ceredase, which was registered in 
1994 in the EU following a Concertation Procedure (#39). It is derived from human placental tissue 
and has exposed mannose residues on the oligosaccharides side chains. 
Imiglucerase is the recombinant form of alglucerase. The use of recombinant technology reduces the 
theoretical  risk  of  contamination  with  viruses.  Cerezyme  contains  imiglucerase,  powder  for 
concentrate for solution for infusion. The indication for imiglucerase is the use as long-term enzyme 
replacement therapy in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of non-neuronopathic (Type 1) or chronic 
neuronopathic  (Type  3)  Gaucher  disease  and  who  exhibit  clinically  significant  non-neurological 
manifestations of the disease. 
It  is  recommended  that  due  to  the  heterogeneity  and  the  multi-systemic  nature  of  Gaucher  disease, 
dosage should be individualised for each patient based on a comprehensive evaluation of the clinical 
manifestations of the disease.  A range of dosage regimens has proven effective towards some or all of 
the non neurological manifestations of the disease. Initial doses of 60 U/kg of body weight once every 
2  weeks  have  shown  improvement  in  haematological  and  visceral  parameters  within  6  months  of 
therapy and continued use has either stopped progression of or improved bone disease. Administration 
of doses as low as 2.5 U/kg of body weight three times a week or 15 U/kg of body weight once every 
2  weeks  has  been  shown  to  improve  haematological  parameters  and  organomegaly,  but  not  bone 
parameters. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Cerezyme is a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion that is reconstituted and diluted prior to 
administration. 
1/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  200  U  vial  of  Cerezyme  contains  200  units  of  imiglucerase  as  active  ingredient  and  mannitol, 
sodium  citrate,  citric  acid  monohydrate  and  polysorbate  80  as  excipients.  After  reconstitution  the 
solution contains 40 units of imiglucerase per ml. 
The  container  is  a  20  ml  borosilicate  type  I  glass  vial  with  a  siliconised  butyl  rubber  stopper  and  a 
tamper-proof cap. 
The 400 U vial, approved in January 2000 via an extension application, contains twice the amount of 
active  substance  and  excipients  as  the  200  U  vials,  and  is  to  be  reconstituted  in  10.2  ml  instead  of  
5.1 ml resulting in the same strength of product in the reconstituted solution (40 U/ml). The container 
closure system is the same as for the 200 U presentations. 
The  formulation  of  the  batches  used  in  clinical  studies  is  considered  to  be  identical  to  the  proposed 
marketed  product  formulation.  Differences  between  clinical  batches  and  the  product  to  be  licensed 
exist  on production  scale.  Clinical studies were performed  with  material  manufactured at a  160  litre 
scale  cell  culture  process,  while  the  proposed  manufacturing  scale  is  2000  litre.  This  increase  in 
production  scale  has  no  impact  on  product  quality  as  demonstrated  by  genetic  stability  data  and 
characterisation data of the active ingredient. 
Development studies with the excipients showed a stable formulation with good caking properties. A 
citrate  buffer  is  included  to  control  the  pH.  The  choice  of  the  excipients,  the  sterilisation  procedure 
and  the  container  has  been  sufficiently  justified.  After  reconstitution  an  overage  of  0.3  ml  (for  the  
200  U  vial)  and  0.6  ml  (for  the  400  U  vial)  is  included,  which  is  acceptable  without  further 
experimental data since this overage is equal to the recommended excess volume for 5.0 ml (for the 
200 U vial) and 10.0 ml (for 400 U vial) injections in the USP. 
Imiglucerase and alglucerase have many common structural characteristics. The differences have been 
well documented and do not result in a difference in clinical efficacy as proven by the clinical trials. 
Some bovine source materials are used during cell bank establishment and drug substance production. 
All of  these  are  sourced from BSE  free countries (New  Zealand, USA). Virus validation studies are 
considered acceptable. 
In  most  areas,  Part  II  of  the  dossier  is  of  good  standard.  The  application  meets  the  relevant  EC 
guidelines.  No  major  objections  are  present  against  a  marketing  authorisation  for  Cerezyme  on  the 
basis  of  the  high  quality  documentation  submitted  for  Part  II  and  the  consideration  that  Cerezyme, 
produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology,  has  an  inherent  lower  theoretical  risk  for  viral 
transmission. 
The finished product release specifications, which are identical for Cerezyme 200 U and 400 U with 
the exception of those specifications relating to fill volume and labelling/packaging, are  adequate  to 
control the finished product.  
A  shelf  life  of  24  months  at  2  –  8  °C  is  considered  acceptable  for  both  the  200  U  and  400  U 
presentations. 
The company has responded adequately to the majority of the questions and has provided additional 
information. All the main objections have been resolved. 
Taken  together  all  currently  available  information  demonstrates  a  consistent  production  of 
imiglucerase and the finished product with the required quality and properties for intravenous use in 
humans. 
Therefore,  a  positive  opinion  with  regard  to  the  chemical-pharmaceutical  and  biological  issues  is 
recommended subject to the condition that the company commit to provide any reasonable requested 
additional information within the agreed timeframe. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The efficacy of Cerezyme has not been studied in vivo in preclinical studies, because no satisfactory 
animal  model  of  Gaucher  disease  exists.  Receptor  binding  has  been  characterised  in  vitro  using  rat 
2/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alveolar macrophages. Safety pharmacology of the cardiovascular and respiratory system was studied 
in a pilot monkey study. No effects were seen. 
Data from preclinical studies show similar pharmacodynamic actions of imiglucerase and alglucerase. 
Therefore, no separate clinical pharmacodynamic studies have been performed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  biodistribution  of  imiglucerase  and  alglucerase  was  similar  in  mice.  The  clearance  of  both 
molecules  from  the  circulation  was  very  rapid.  Up  to  50%  of  the  administered  imiglucerase  and 
alglucerase  activity  could  be  traced  to  the  various  body  organs.  Elevated  levels  of  GCR  enzymatic 
activity  were  found  in  the  liver  (>  94%),  brain  (about  1.5-3%)  and  spleen  (0.7-2%).  In  the  liver,  a 
higher  proportion  of  administered  imiglucerase  was  located  in  Kupffer  cells  than  alglucerase  (about 
15%  versus  7.0%).  It  appears  that  there  is  a  difference  in  Kupffer  cell  targeting  in  mouse  liver  for 
imiglucerase versus alglucerase, which may not be due to differences in formulation. 
Single dose pharmacokinetics was studied in cynomolgus monkeys within the safety pharmacology 
study. The serum half-life of imiglucerase was 7-8 minutes. 
Toxicology 
Acute  toxicity  was  studied  in  rats  only.  No  toxicity  occurred.  The  lack  of  a  second  species  is 
acceptable. 
Repeated i.v. dose toxicity (13 weeks) was studied in rats and in cynomolgus monkeys. The duration 
of treatment, dose level and dose frequency are acceptable. 
In male rats, mild nephropathy was seen at high dose level, but not at the lower dose level. The margin 
of safety is acceptable, particularly in view of the paucity of the kidney changes seen. 
Anti-imiglucerase antibodies were detected in all dose groups. 
In the monkey study, spleen weight was increased in females at the high dose level. At the same dose 
level, local toxicity was seen in some males. In monkeys, the anti-imiglucerase antibody response was 
more prominent than in rats. The onset of the antibody response and the number of animals responding 
was dose-dependent. 
Exogenous GCR enzymatic activity was not detectable in livers of rats at one-week injection of both 
dose regimens. This observation strengthens the doubts about the level of effective systemic exposure 
in the rat study. 
Cerezyme  was  negative  in  the  Ames  test.  Further  testing  is  not  needed.  No  reproduction  and 
carcinogenicity studies were performed. This is acceptable. 
After  the  initial  assessment  one  objection  and  a  few  points  for  clarification  regarding  part  III  were 
raised. The company has adequately addressed this objection and these points for clarification. 
From a preclinical point of view a positive opinion is recommended. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Part IV B of the initial dossier consists of a pivotal trial evaluating safety and efficacy of imiglucerase 
(RC91-0110),  an  extended  study  (RC92-0501)  and  a  study  conducted  in  Israel  (RC92-0301) 
comparing the safety and efficacy of two dosage regimens of imiglucerase. 
In the pivotal trial (RC91-0110) 60 U/kg b.w. imiglucerase were administered i.v. every 2 weeks. In 
the  extended  study  (RC92-0501)  dose  reductions  in  50%  increments  were  individualised  after  9 
months of therapy. 
In the Israeli trial two dose regimens were compared, i.e. 15 U/kg b.w. every other week and 2.5 U/kg 
b.w. 3 times per week. 
These studies included a limited number of patients (30 in the pivotal/extended trial; 10 in the Israeli 
trial) however, due to the low incidence of Gaucher disease it is unrealistic to ask for a larger number 
of  patients  to  be  studied.  Many  of  the  patients  who  participated  in  the  clinical  evaluation  of 
3/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
imiglucerase were involved in more than one of the clinical studies. None of the patients studied had 
ever  been  treated  with  enzyme  replacement  therapy  before.  No  placebo-controlled  studies  were 
conducted, due to ethical considerations. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  imiglucerase  is  independent  of  the  dose  in  the  dose  range  7.5  to  60 
U/kg, independent of the infusion time period within the range of 7.5 to 60 min and not statistically 
different from the profile of alglucerase. 
Efficacy 
Primary efficacy parameters used in all three trials include an increase in hemoglobin, an increase in 
platelet count and decrease in liver and spleen volume as assessed by MRI or CT. 
Secondary  efficacy  parameters  include  an  increase  in  haemoglobin  level,  improvement  in  liver 
function (evidenced by a decrease in serum transaminases), decreased acid phosphatase or angiotensin 
converting enzyme, and improved skeletal status. 
The  pivotal/extended  study  has  demonstrated  an  equal  efficacy  with  respect  to  haematological 
parameters  and  organomegaly of  the  placental  and  recombinant  DNA  derived  products,  whereas the 
Israeli  trial  demonstrated  equal  activity  concerning  these  parameters  of  a  low  dose  regimen 
administered with different frequencies. These data are corroborated by extensive post-marketing data. 
It  has  also  been  shown  that  patients  may  safely  switch  from  alglucerase  to  imiglucerase  treatment. 
Data regarding skeletal status obtained with the dosage used in the pivotal/extended trial show some 
improvement of bone parameters. 
Safety 
Safety  measures  monitored  throughout  the  studies  include  the  formation  of  antibodies,  routine 
laboratory values and adverse events. Alglucerase and imiglucerase have a comparable safety profile. 
Antibody formation does not appear to occur more often with imiglucerase and is not associated with 
any  new  undesirable  event.  Overall,  it  can  be  calculated  that  4  out  of  25  (16%)  patients  have 
developed  antibodies  while  on  imiglucerase  therapy.  This  incidence  accords  with  the  percentage 
mentioned in the SPC (± 15%). 
Theoretically imiglucerase has a lower risk of viral contamination than alglucerase. 
After the initial assessment no objections were raised on part IV. Only one point for clarification was 
raised regarding the method of gathering data on the frequency and timing of antibody formation and 
the clinical significance with respect to allergic reactions and occurrence of neutralising activity. This 
point  has  been  addressed  by  the  MAH.  It  is  stated  that  to  streamline  and  facilitate  the  gathering  of 
immunological  data  within  the  International  Collaborative  Gaucher  Group  (ICGG)  a  specific 
procedure  has  been  developed  concerning  the  antibody  serum  sample  collection  and  transportation, 
together with an information package for the treating physician regarding the advised time points for 
antibody testing. The results will be submitted to the CPMP on a regular basis. The answer from the 
MAH  is  considered  satisfactory,  given  that  the  company  undertakes  to  collect  and  submit  data  on 
antibody formation in the same manner as it did for Ceredase. These data should be submitted together 
with the scheduled Periodic Safety Update Report. Within the framework of Genzyme's World-wide 
Pharmacovigilance System, the immunological profile of Cerezyme will be carefully reviewed in the 
course  of  the  preparation  of  the  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  for  Cerezyme,  which  has  been 
submitted  to  the  CPMP  bi-annually  in  the  first  2  years  after  Marketing  Approval  was  obtained,  and 
annually  in  the  following  3  years.  Following  the  5-year  renewal  (December  2002)  the  PSUR  is 
submitted  as  requested  by  the  CPMP.  Antibody  formation,  as  well  as  any  change  in  the  safety  and 
efficacy profile, are carefully evaluated on a current basis and presented in the Periodic Safety Update 
Reports. 
The  MAH  applied  in  December  2002  for  an  extension  of  indication  for  Cerezyme  to  the  chronic 
neuronopathic  (Type  3)  Gaucher  disease.  Data  obtained  from  literature  and  from  the  International 
Collaborative Gaucher Group Registry were submitted.  
All studies published between January 01, 1989 and July 01, 2000, in which ERT was used in patients 
with  chronic  neuronopathic  (Type  3)  Gaucher  disease  were  reviewed.  In  total,  fifteen  publications 
4/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  identified,  describing  33  patients  (6  adults,  27  children).  Duration  of  ERT  (Ceredase  or 
Cerezyme) ranged from 6 to 54 months. Dosages ranged from 27.6 U/kg per month to 480 U/kg per 
month. The  mean dosage per patient  was  estimated to be 113.1 U/kg  of  enzyme every 4 weeks. An 
unpublished  study  (with  chronic  neuropathic  (type  3)  Gaucher  disease  patients,  n=21)  and  an 
additional  5  publications  (covering  the  period  between  01.07.2000  and  01.05.2002)  were  also 
considered.  In  these  literature  studies,  clinical  parameters  such  as  hepatomegaly,  splenomegaly, 
anaemia  and  thrombocytopenia,  neurological  symptoms  and  other  outcomes  such  as  pulmonary 
involvement, quality of life, bone symptoms, growth retardation, fatigue, bone marrow infiltration or 
kyphosis were reviewed. 
From the International Collaborative Gaucher Group Registry, data were collected from 2637 Gaucher 
patients,  with  130  neuronopathic  Gaucher  patients,  of  whom  117  have  received  ERT  (mainly  of 
children,  ≤  17  years  of  age).  From  these  data,  the  efficacy  comparison  analyses  of  chronic 
neuronopathic  versus  non-neuronopathic  Gaucher  patients  was  performed.  Where  possible,  in  the 
analysis the clinical response of non-neuronopathic patients was compared with the small subgroup of 
chronic  neuronopathic  patients  who  received  a  comparable  dosage  regimen.  Platelet,  haemoglobin, 
hepatomegaly,  splenomegaly  were reviewed.  Concerning the neurological symptoms,  no  meaningful 
analysis of the treatment response could be conducted due to the minimal data collected. 
Based  on  the  limited  clinical  information  on  this ultra-rare  subset  of  patients  (approximately  130  in 
Europe),  no  specific  recommendation  for  the  dosage  can  be  given  for  treatment  of  Type  3  patients 
except that the dose must be individualised according to the systemic symptoms of the patients.  
During  the  approval  of  this  extension  of  indication  to  the  chronic  neuronopathic  (Type  3)  Gaucher 
disease,  the  MAH  commits  to  improve  the  Gaucher  Registry  to  allow  a  better  collection  of 
neurological signs for Type 3 patients and to submit data from the Registry on an annual basis with 
reports  on  safety, neurological  and systemic responses  as well as the  use  of  different  dose regimens 
and dose modification. It also commits to present in the next PSURs safety information for Type 1 and 
Type 3 Gaucher patients separately. 
Post-marketing experience 
Seven  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  (PSUR)  have  been  submitted  by  the  MAH  until  01  August 
2003. 
The outcome of the PSURs did not change the benefit/risk ratio of imiglucerase. As a result of the first 
PSUR (covering the period 1.12.97 – 31.05.98), changes have been implemented in the SPC and PL to 
include rigors in the list of adverse events and to report the occurrence of pulmonary hypertension in a 
small  number  of  patients.  Pulmonary  hypertension  is  a  known  complication  of  Gaucher’s  disease;  a 
causal  relationship  with  ERT  has  not  yet  been  established.  After  the  second  PSUR  (covering  the 
period 1.6.98-30.11.98), two unlabelled adverse events (tachycardia and cyanosis) were introduced in 
the SPC and PL. The company also included under Special warnings and special precautions for use 
that  ‘In  rare  cases  anaphylactoid  reactions  have  been  noted’.  No  changes  of  the  SPC/PL  were 
necessary  after  the  assessment  of  the  third  PSUR  (period  1.12.98-31.05.99)  and  the  fourth  PSUR 
(period  1.06.99-30.11.99).  Following  the  fifth  (period  1.12.99-30.11.99),  sixth  (period  1.12.00-
31.05.01)  and  seventh  (period  1.06.01-31.05.02)  PSUR,  the  MAH  will  provide  the  results  of  an  on-
going  study  with  Cerezyme  in  treating  skeletal  disease  in  patients  with  type  1  Gaucher  disease.  As 
regards  the  effect  of  antibodies  on  the  treatment  response,  no  difference  in  responsiveness  was 
observed  between  antibody  positive  and  antibody  negative  Cerezyme  naive  patients.  However, 
definite answers could  not be drawn, as  the  number  of patients with antibodies studied  was  still too 
small. The Monitoring is continuing. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Submitted  studies  have  demonstrated  equal  efficacy  with  respect  to  haematological  parameters  and 
organomegaly of the placental and recombinant derived products in a dose of 60 U/kg b.w. every two 
weeks  followed  by  dose  reductions  of  50%  increments.  Two  low  dose  regimens  administered  at 
different  frequencies  showed  comparable  activity  concerning  these  parameters.  No  significant 
differences  were  found.  These  data  are  corroborated  by  extensive  post-marketing  data.  It  has  been 
5/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown  that  patients  may  safely  switch  from  alglucerase  to  imiglucerase  treatment.  Data  regarding 
skeletal status obtained with the 60 U/kg b.w. Every two weeks dosage showed some improvement in 
bone parameters. 
Alglucerase and imiglucerase have a comparable safety profile. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  imiglucerase  is  not  statistically  different  from  the  profile  of 
alglucerase. 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  Cerezyme  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  Type  1  and  Type  3  Gaucher 
disease. 
During its September 2002  meeting, the CPMP granted  a positive opinion for the 5-year renewal of 
Cerezyme.  
6/6 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
