25 January 2018 
EMA/100422/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Cervarix  
human papillomavirus vaccine [types 16, 18] (recombinant, adjuvanted, adsorbed) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000721/P46/093 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
1.1. Steps taken for the assessment ............................................................................. 3 
2. Assessment of the post-authorisation measure PAM MenACWY-TT-054 .. 4 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion ............................................................ 19 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 2/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: 
Final report Study MenACWY-TT-054: 
A Phase III, open, randomised, controlled, multicentre (Estonia, Thailand, Dominican Republic) study 
to assess the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ meningococcal serogroups A, C, 
W-135, Y tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine (MenACWY-TT [Nimenrix]) administered alone as compared 
to MenACWY-TT co-administered with GSK Biologicals’ HPV vaccine Cervarix or co-administered with 
Cervarix and GSK Biologicals' tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine 
adsorbed (Tdap [Boostrix]) in female adolescents and young adults at 9-25 years of age. 
This is an Art 46 submission of a Nimenrix study in which Cervarix is co-administered. No SmPC 
modifications are proposed by the MAH. 
1.1.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
CHMP Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
31/08/2017 
27/11/2017 
03/01/2018 
18/01/2018 
25/01/2018 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 3/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Assessment of the post-authorisation measure PAM 
MenACWY-TT-054 
Based on the epidemiology of disease caused by N. meningitidis and Bordetella pertussis, adolescents 
stand to benefit from vaccination against both pathogens. Co-administration of MenACWY-TT with 
Boostrix (Tdap) was evaluated in male and female subjects aged between 11 and 25 years 
(adolescents and adults) in a separate clinical study. The current study evaluated co-administration of 
MenACWY-TT, Cervarix and Boostrix as compared to administration of MenACWY-TT and Cervarix 
vaccines alone in females from 9 to 25 years of age. Co-administration of the three vaccines may 
contribute to improve the implementation and coverage of adolescent vaccination programmes. 
STUDY OBJECTIVES 
The co-primary objectives were assessed in hierarchical manner according to the order presented 
below. A co-primary objective could only be met if the statistical criteria for that objective as well as 
the statistical criteria for all previous co-primary objectives were met.  
Co-primary objectives 
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of MenACWY-TT co-administered with Cervarix compared to 
MenACWY-TT alone with respect to serum bactericidal assay (using baby rabbit complement, rSBA) 
geometric mean titres (GMTs) for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y one month after MenACWY-TT 
vaccination.  
Non-inferiority criterion: For each serogroup separately, one month after vaccination with MenACWY-
TT, the upper limit (UL) of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% confidence interval (CI) for the 
ratio of rSBA GMTs (ACWY-TT group/ACWYHPV group) was < the pre-defined limit of 2. 
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with MenACWY-TT compared to 
Cervarix alone in terms of human papilloma virus 16 (HPV16) and HPV18 GMTs as measured by 
enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) one month after the third dose of Cervarix.  
Non-inferiority criterion: For each HPV antigen separately (HPV16 and HPV18), one month after the 
third dose of Cervarix, the UL of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI on the group GMT 
ratio (HPV group/ACWYHPV group) was < the pre-defined limit of 2.  
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of MenACWY-TT co-administered with Cervarix and Boostrix 
compared to MenACWY-TT alone with respect to rSBA GMTs for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y one 
month after MenACWY-TT vaccination.  
Non-inferiority criterion: For each serogroup separately, one month after vaccination with MenACWY-
TT, the UL of the two sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI for the ratio of rSBA GMTs (ACWY-TT 
group/Co-ad group) was < the pre-defined limit of 2.  
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Boostrix 
compared to Cervarix co-administered with Boostrix in terms of HPV16 and HPV18 GMTs as measured 
by ELISA one month after the third dose of Cervarix.  
Non-inferiority criterion: For each HPV antigen separately (HPV16 and HPV18), one month after the 
third dose, the UL of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI on the group GMT ratio (Tdap 
group/Co-ad group) was < the pre-defined limit of 2.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 4/21 
 
 
 
 
 
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Cervarix 
compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix in terms of antibody concentrations against 
diphtheria toxoid (anti-D) and tetanus toxoid (anti-T) one month after Boostrix vaccination.  
Non-inferiority criterion: The lower limit (LL) of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI for the 
group difference (Co-ad group minus Tdap group) in the percentage of subjects with anti-D antibody 
concentrations ≥1.0 IU/mL was ≥ the pre-defined limit of -10%. and the LL of the two-sided 
standardised asymptotic 95% CI for the group difference (Co-ad group minus Tdap group) in the 
percentage of subjects with anti-T antibody concentrations ≥1.0 IU/mL was ≥ the pre-defined limit of -
10%.  
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Cervarix 
compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix with respect to Geometric mean concentration 
(GMC) to each discrete pertussis antigen (pertussis toxoid [PT], filamentous hemagglutinin [FHA] and 
pertactin [PRN]) one month after Boostrix vaccination.  
Non-inferiority criterion: For each discrete pertussis antigen (PT, FHA and PRN), the UL of the two-
sided 95% CI for the group ratio of GMC (Tdap group / Co-ad group) was ≤ the predefined limit of 1.5.  
Secondary objectives  
Immunogenicity  
Prior to and one month after vaccination with MenACWY-TT  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To evaluate the immunogenicity of subjects in the ACWYHPV, ACWY-TT and Coad groups in 
terms of percentage of subjects with rSBA titres ≥1:8, ≥1:128 and vaccine response one month 
post-vaccination.  
To evaluate the immunogenicity of the TT carrier protein in the ACWY-TT group in terms of the 
percentage of subjects with anti-T concentrations ≥0.1 IU/mL, ≥1.0 IU/mL and GMCs. Prior to 
the first dose of Cervarix and one month after the third dose of Cervarix  
To evaluate the immunogenicity of Cervarix in subjects in the ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad, ACWY-TT 
and Tdap groups with respect to the percentage of subjects with titres ≥19 EL.U/mL for anti-
HPV16 and ≥18 EL.U/mL for anti-HPV18.  
To evaluate the immunogenicity of subjects in the ACWY-TT group with respect to HPV16 and 
HPV18 GMTs. 
To evaluate the immunogenicity of the ACWYHPV, ACWY-TT, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups with 
respect to seroconverstion rates of anti-HPV16 and anti-HPV18 titres one month post dose 3. 
Prior to and one month after vaccination with Boostrix  
To evaluate the booster responses to PT, FHA and PRN in the Co-ad and Tdap groups.  
To evaluate the immunogenicity of Boostrix in the Co-ad and Tdap groups in terms of 
percentage of subjects with anti-D and anti-T concentrations ≥0.1 IU/mL, anti-PT, anti-FHA and 
anti-PRN concentrations ≥ the assay cut-offs and GMCs.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 5/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exploratory objectives 
The exploratory objectives were related to the comparability of the study vaccine versus the control 
vaccines in terms of immune response to the different vaccine antigens one month after the 
vaccination with MenACWY-TT and one month after the third dose Cervarix vaccination. 
These group comparisons are exploratory and any potential differences should be interpreted with 
caution considering that there was no adjustment for multiplicity of comparisons and that the clinical 
relevance of any differences remains unknown. 
Safety and reactogenicity  
To evaluate the safety and reactogenicity after vaccination with MenACWY-TT, Boostrix and Cervarix in 
all groups:  
•  Solicited local and general Adverse events (AEs): - Days 0-6 following vaccination with 
MenACWY-TT administered alone or coadministered with Cervarix or Cervarix + Boostrix. - 
Days 0-6 after Dose 1 of Cervarix administered alone or co-administered with MenACWY-TT or 
MenACWY-TT + Boostrix, - Days 0-6 following vaccination with Boostrix co-administered with 
Cervarix or with Cervarix + MenACWY-TT.  
•  Unsolicited symptoms on Days 0-30 after vaccination with MenACWY-TT, the first dose of 
Cervarix and/or Boostrix in all groups.  
•  Serious adverse events (SAEs) and new onset of chronic illness(es) (NOCIs, e.g. autoimmune 
disorders, asthma, type 1 diabetes and allergies) and Potential immunemediated diseases 
(pIMDs) from first vaccination through study end in all groups. 
The study design overview is presented in Figure 1. 
Figure 1/ Study design overview 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 6/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccination schedules: 
– ACWY-TT group: At Month 0, injection of MenACWY-TT; at Month 1, 2 and 7 IM injection of Cervarix. 
– ACWYHPV group: At Month 0, injection of MenACWY-TT and Cervarix; at Month 1 and 6 injection of 
Cervarix. 
– HPV group: At Month 0, 1 and 6 injection of Cervarix. 
– Co-ad group: At Month 0, injection of MenACWY-TT, Boostrix and Cervarix; at Month 1 and 6 
injection of Cervarix. 
– Tdap group: At Month 0, injection of Boostrix and Cervarix; at Month 1 and 6 injection of Cervarix. 
Immunological correlates of protection 
Bactericidal Assay using rabbit complement rSBA: 
Bactericidal antibodies are recognised as surrogate markers of protection. An rSBA cutoff of 8 
(reciprocal dilution) has shown to be the most consistent with observed efficacy at four weeks 
post-vaccination with a meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine in post-licensure efficacy 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 7/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
estimates in the United Kingdom [Andrews, 2003]. The threshold for protection for other 
serogroups is still to be defined, although it is common practice to extend the cut-off of 8 to 
rSBA-MenA, rSBA-MenW-135 and rSBA-MenY [CDC, 2006].  
Vaccine response for rSBA was defined as post-vaccination titre ≥1:32 one month after 
vaccination in subjects initially seronegative (rSBA titre <1:8) and at least four times the pre-
vaccination antibody titres in subjects initially seropositive (rSBA titre ≥1:8). 
Anti-HPV 
There are currently no correlates of protection defined for the HPV16 and HPV18 antigens used 
as part of the Cervarix vaccine. The percentage of subjects with anti- HPV16 titres ≥19 
EL.U/mL and anti-HPV18 titres ≥18 EL.U/mL is reported, along with GMTs. 
Anti-D and anti-T 
Neutralising antibody levels ≥ 0.1 IU/mL are considered to provide protection to diphtheria and 
tetanus [Plotkin, 2001]. 
Anti-PT, anti-FHA and anti-PRN 
There are no correlates of protection for anti-PT, anti-FHA and anti-PRN antibody. The 
percentage of subjects seropositive for each antigen (% with antibody concentration equal or 
above the assay cut-offs), GMCs and pertussis booster responses is reported. 
Booster response to PT, FHA and PRN was defined as: 
- For subjects with pre-vaccination antibody concentration below the assay cutoffs, post-
vaccination antibody concentration ≥ four times the assay cut-offs, 
- For subjects with pre-vaccination antibody concentration between the assay cutoffs and 
below four times the assay cut-offs, post-vaccination antibody concentration ≥ four times the 
pre-vaccination antibody concentration, 
- For subjects with pre-vaccination antibody concentration ≥ four times the assay cut-offs, 
post-vaccination antibody concentration ≥ two times the pre-vaccination antibody 
concentration. 
Seroconversion was defined as the appearance of antibodies (i.e. titre/concentration ≥ the cut-off 
value) in the serum of subjects who were seronegative before vaccination. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 8/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population results 
CHMP comment 
The mean age is 15-16 yoa in this study. The recommended age regarding the target population for 
Cervarix is between 9 and 14 yoa. 
IMMUNOGENICITY RESULTS  
Confirmatory co-primary objectives 
•  Non-inferiority of MenACWY-TT co-administered with Cervarix compared to MenACWY-TT alone 
with respect to rSBA GMTs for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y one month after vaccination was 
demonstrated as the UL of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI for rSBA GMTs ratios 
(ACWY-TT group/ACWYHPV group) was 1.21, 1.06, 1.07 and 1.12 for serogroups A, C W-135 
and Y respectively, which is < the pre-defined limit of 2 for each serogroup.  
•  Non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with MenACWY-TT compared to Cervarix 
administered alone in terms of HPV16 and HPV18 GMTs as measured by ELISA one month after 
the third dose of Cervarix was demonstrated as the UL of the two-sided standardised 
asymptotic 95% CI on the group GMT ratio (HPV group/ACWYHPV group) was 1.15 and 1.29 
for HPV16 and HPV18 respectively, which is < the pre-defined limit of 2 for each HPV antigen. 
•  Non-inferiority of MenACWY-TT co-administered with Cervarix and Boostrix compared to 
MenACWY-TT alone with respect to rSBA GMTs for serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y one month 
after vaccination was demonstrated as the UL of the twosided standardised asymptotic 95% CI 
for rSBA GMTs ratios (ACWY-TT group/Coad group) was 1.43, 1.51, 1.64 and 1.24 for 
serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y respectively, which is < the pre-defined limit of 2 for each 
serogroup.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 9/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Boostrix compared to 
Cervarix co-administered with Boostrix in terms of HPV16 and HPV18 GMTs as measured by 
ELISA one month after the third dose of Cervarix was demonstrated as the UL of the two-sided 
standardised asymptotic 95% CI on the group GMT ratio (Tdap group/Co-ad group) was 1.43 
and 1.41 for HPV16 and HPV18 respectively, which is < the pre-defined limit of 2 for each HPV 
antigen. 
•  Non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Cervarix compared to 
Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix in terms of anti-D and anti-T antibody concentrations 
one month after vaccination was demonstrated as the LL of the two-sided standardised 
asymptotic 95% CI for the group difference (Co-ad group minus Tdap group) in the percentage 
of subjects with anti-D and anti-T antibody concentrations ≥1.0 IU/mL was -6.90 and -2.23 for 
anti-D and anti-T respectively, which is ≥ the pre-defined limit of -10%.  
•  Non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered with MenACWY-TT and Cervarix compared to 
Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix with respect to GMC to each discrete pertussis antigen 
(PT, FHA and PRN) one month after vaccination was not demonstrated as the UL of the two-
sided 95% CI for the group ratio of GMC (Tdap group / Co-ad group) for each pertussis antigen 
was 1.61, 1.93 and 1.87 for PT, FHA and PRN respectively, which is > the pre-defined limit of 
1.5. 
Secondary objectives: 
Immunogenicity with respect to components of MenACWY-TT vaccine at one month after vaccination  
•  Vaccine response against all meningococcal serogroups was observed in a range from 90.2% 
for rSBA-MenA in the Co-ad group to 100% for rSBA-MenA and rSBA-MenW-135 in the 
ACWYHPV group across the ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV and Co-ad groups.  
• 
The percentage of subjects with rSBA-MenA, rSBA-MenC, rSBA-MenW-135 or rSBA-MenY titres 
≥ 1:8 was at least 97.3% for all serogroups across the ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV and Co-ad groups.  
•  Across the study groups rSBA GMT value ranged from 4649.6 to 5517.1 for rSBAMenA and 
from 3598.6 to 5091.0 for rSBA-MenC. Consistently in all groups higher GMTs were observed 
for rSBA-MenW-135 (range from 11663.6 to 18068.3) and rSBA-MenY (range from 11201.2 to 
12758.9).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 10/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  All subjects in the ACWY-TT group had seroprotective levels of anti-T antbodies (≥ 0.1 IU/mL) 
with a GMT of 25.4.  
Immunogenicity with respect to components of the co-administered Boostrix vaccine at one month 
after Boostrix vaccination  
-  Diphtheria and tetanus antigens  
•  Seroprotective anti-D antibody concentration (≥ 0.1 IU/mL) was observed in all subjects in Co-
ad and Tdap groups. GMC values ranged between 4.7 (Co-ad group) and 6.6 (Tdap group) in 
both groups.  
•  Seroprotective anti-T antibody concentration (≥ 0.1 IU/mL) was observed in all subjects across 
the Co-ad and Tdap groups. The GMC values ranged between 15.4 (Tdap group) and 25.9 (Co-
ad group) in both study groups.   
- 
Pertussis antigens  
•  Booster response to PT ranged from 89.0% (Co-ad group) to 92.5% (Tdap group), booster 
response to FHA ranged from 96.5% (Tdap group) to 97.2% (Co-ad group) and booster 
response to PRN ranged from 93.9% (Co-ad group) to 96.9% (Tdap group).  
• 
The percentage of subjects with anti-PT, anti-FHA, or anti-PRN concentration ≥ the assay cut-
offs was at least 98.0% for all pertussis antigens in the Co-ad and Tdap groups.  
•  Anti-PT GMC values ranged from 52.9 (Co-ad group) to 73.2 (Tdap group), anti- FHA GMC 
values ranged from 278.7 (Co-ad group) to 472.4 (Tdap group) and anti- PRN GMC values 
ranged from 193.4 (Co-ad group) to 318.6 (Tdap group).  
Immunogenicity with respect to components of the co-administered Cervarix vaccine at one month 
after the third dose of Cervarix vaccination.  
• 
The percentage of subjects with anti-HPV-16 concentration ≥ 19 EU/mL and anti- HPV-18 
concentration ≥ 18 EU/mL was at least 99.6% across all study groups.  
•  Anti-HPV-16 GMT values ranged from 9563.8 (Co-ad) to 12124.9 (ACWYHPV) and anti-HPV-18 
GMT values ranged from 4306.2 (Co-ad) to 5655.0 (HPV) across all study groups. 
Exploratory objectives 
The exploratory objectives were related to the comparability of the study vaccine versus the control 
vaccines in terms of immune response to the different vaccine antigens one month after the 
vaccination with MenACWY-TT and one month after the third dose Cervarix vaccination. 
These group comparisons are exploratory and any potential differences should be interpreted with 
caution considering that there was no adjustment for multiplicity of comparisons and that the clinical 
relevance of any differences remains unknown. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 11/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 12/21 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 13/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 14/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 15/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To summarize according to the MAH, non-inferiority of the immunogenicity (primary analysis) of 
Boostrix co-administered with MenACWYTT and Cervarix (Co-ad group) was not demonstrated as 
compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix (Tdap group) with respect to GMC to each discrete 
pertussis antigen (PT, FHA and PRN) one month after Boostrix vaccination.  
Despite failure to meet the non-inferiority criterion, vaccine response rate and GMC fold increase 
(secondary analysis) between pre- and post-vaccination showed robust booster responses to 
vaccination for each pertussis antigen in both groups (Co-ad group and Tdap group), suggesting that 
the statistically significant differences are not deemed to be clinically relevant.  
CHMP comment 
All the co-primary objectives were met except one.  
Non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with MenACWY-TT compared to Cervarix administered 
alone in terms of HPV16 and HPV18 GMTs as measured by ELISA one month after the third dose of 
Cervarix was demonstrated as the UL of the two-sided standardised asymptotic 95% CI on the group 
GMT ratio (HPV group/ACWYHPV group) was 1.19 and 1.31 for HPV16 and HPV18 respectively, which 
is < the pre-defined limit of 2 for each HPV antigen. 
In the primary analysis, non-inferiority of the immunogenicity of Boostrix co-administered with 
MenACWYTT and Cervarix (Co-ad group) was not demonstrated as compared to Boostrix co-
administered with Cervarix (Tdap group) with respect to GMC to each discrete pertussis antigen (PT, 
FHA and PRN) one month after Boostrix vaccination. The co-administration of Tdap Boostrix with 
Nimenrix and Cervarix one month later tended to elicit lower anti-PT, anti-FHA and anti-PRN GMCs as 
compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix alone. The clinical relevance of this observation is 
not known. 
Meanwhile in the secondary analysis, the response rates and GMC fold increase between pre- and post-
vaccination showed robust responses to vaccination for each pertussis antigen in both groups (Co-ad 
group and Tdap group), suggesting – according to the MAH - that the statistically significant 
differences are not deemed to be clinically relevant.  
The SmPC should address these results and uncertainty.  
The section 4.5 should provide information on the potential for clinically relevant interactions based on 
the pharmacodynamic properties and in vivo pharmacokinetic studies of the vaccines studied. 
Specifically, the existence or not of clinically relevant interference in the antibody response when co-
administration occurs should be adequately addressed. 
The current SmPC of Cervarix does not include any information on the co-administration of Cervarix 
with meningococcal vaccine. Meanwhile, information on the co-administration of Cervarix with a 
combined booster vaccine containing diphtheria (d), tetanus (T) and pertussis [acellular] (pa) with or 
without inactivated poliomyelitis (IPV) - with no clinically relevant interference with antibody response 
to any of the components of either vaccine – is included in section 4.5 of SmPC of Cervarix. Also, other 
co-administrations with Cervarix are addressed (combined hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B 
(rDNA) vaccine or with hepatitis B (rDNA) vaccine). 
Meanwhile, the MAH does not consider an update of the SmPC with co-administration of Cervarix with 
meningococcal vaccine as relevant because of the limited number of European countries having a 
recommendation for quadrivalent meningococcal vaccination in adolescents. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 16/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This rationale cannot be endorsed by the Rapporteur.  
This study provides new data regarding co-administration of Cervarix, i e with Nimenrix and with 
Nimenrix+Boostrix, which warrants an update of its SmPC. Therefore, the MAH is requested to address 
the results of this study MenACWY-TT-054 especially since non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered 
with MenACWY-TT and Cervarix compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix with respect to 
Geometric mean concentration (GMC) to each discrete pertussis antigen (pertussis toxoid [PT], 
filamentous hemagglutinin [FHA] and pertactin [PRN]) one month after Boostrix vaccination was not 
demonstrated although the clinical relevance is unknown. Issue remains. 
SAFETY RESULTS 
The primary analysis was performed on the TVC. As the percentage of vaccinated subjects eliminated 
from the ATP cohort for analysis of safety was < 5%, an analysis on the ATP cohort for safety was not 
performed to supplement the TVC analysis.   
Solicited adverse events:  
During the 7-day (Days 0-6) follow-up period, pain was the most frequently reported solicited local AE 
at the MenACWY-TT injection site, reported by 58.7%, 54.5% and 60.0% of subjects in the ACWY-TT 
group, ACWYHPV and Co-ad groups, respectively. Grade 3 local AEs were reported by no more than 
2.7% of subjects in all three groups.  
During the 7-day (Days 0-6) follow-up period, pain was the most frequently reported solicited local AE 
at Boostrix injection site, reported by 72.7% and 76.6% of subjects in the Co-ad and Tdap groups, 
respectively. Grade 3 local AEs were reported by no more than 8.1% of subjects in both groups.  
During the 7-day (Days 0-6) follow-up period, pain was the most frequently reported solicited local AE 
at the injection site after the first dose of Cervarix, reported by 74.8%, 82.9%, 79.2%, 83.5% and 
84.7% of subjects in the ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and in groups. Grade 3 local AEs were 
reported by no more than 8.8% of subjects in all study groups.  
During the 7-day (Days 0-6) follow-up period, fatigue, headache and myalgia were the most frequently 
reported general AE across all study groups. - Fatigue was reported by 40.5%, 36.7%, 32.6%, 42.3% 
and 38.7% of subjects in the ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups, respectively. - 
Headache was reported by 39.0%, 36.3%, 29.9%, 38.1% and 36.4% of subjects in the ACWYTT, 
ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups, respectively. - Myalgia was reported by 36.7%, 32.0%, 
32.6%, 36.9% and 38.7% of subjects in the ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups, 
respectively.  
Unsolicited AEs 
Unsolicited symptoms were reported by a maximum of 16.2% of subjects across the study groups and 
unsolicited symptoms assessed by the investigator as causally related to vaccination were reported by 
no more than 5.0% of subjects across the study groups. Grade 3 unsolicited symptoms were reported 
by a maximum of 1.9% subjects across the study groups and grade 3 unsolicited symptoms assessed 
by the investigator as causally related to vaccination was reported by no more than one subject in the 
Tdap group only. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 17/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the 31-day post-Dose 1 vaccination period: - At least one unsolicited symptom was reported by 
14.3%, 13.5%, 13.4%, 16.2% and 14.9% of subjects in ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap 
groups, respectively. - Grade 3 unsolicited symptoms were reported by 1.2%, 1.2%, 1.9%, 1.5% and 
1.9% of subjects in ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups, respectively. - Unsolicited 
symptoms assessed as causally related to vaccination by the investigator were reported by 2.3%, 
3.1%, 1.1%, 5.0% and 1.5% of subjects in ACWY-TT, ACWYHPV, HPV, Co-ad and Tdap groups, 
respectively. - Grade 3 unsolicited symptoms assessed as causally related to vaccination by the 
investigator were reported by 0.4% of subjects in the Tdap group only.  
During the 31-day post-Dose 2 vaccination period for ACWY-TT group: - At least one unsolicited 
symptom was reported by 8.5% of subject after the first dose of Cervarix. - Grade 3 unsolicited 
symptoms were reported by 1.2% of subject after the first dose Cervarix. - Unsolicited symptoms 
assessed as causally related to vaccination by the investigator were reported by 0.4% of subject after 
the first dose Cervarix.  
Serious adverse events:  
SAEs were reported by a maximum of 22 subjects across study groups of which all recovered and the 
SAEs had resolved by study end. Among the child cases, three SAEs were reported for one infant in the 
Tdap group with fatal outcome. None of the SAEs (fatal and non-fatal SAEs) were considered by the 
investigator as causally related to vaccination. 
-  During the entire study period in the overall vaccinated population, at least one SAE was 
reported by three subjects (1.2%) in the ACWY-TT group, two subjects (0.8%) in the 
ACWYHPV group, five subjects (1.9%) in the HPV group, seven subjects (2.7%) in the Co-ad 
group and six subjects (2.3% [includes one child case]) in the Tdap group.  
-  During the entire study period in the child population, three SAEs were reported for one infant 
(0.4%) in the Tdap group.  
-  None of these SAEs were considered by the investigator as causally related to vaccination  
Fatal events:  
Three SAEs (prematurity, low weight at birth and respiratory distress syndorme) were reported for the 
offspring of a 25-year female subject. The subject had received one dose of Boostrix and two doses of 
Cervarix before conception. Nine months after the second dose of Cervarix vaccination and 10 months 
after Boostrix vaccination the baby was born prematurely by normal vaginal delivery at 34 weeks of 
gestation. He died after 13 days and his death and none of the SAEs were considered by the 
investigator as causally related to Boostrix and/or Cervarix vaccination.  
Non-fatal events:  
Twenty-two non-fatal SAEs were reported across the five groups during the entire study period. These 
SAEs were all recovered/resolved by the study end and none of them were considered by the 
investigator as causally related to the vaccination.  
Adverse events leading to premature discontinuation of study vaccine and/or study:  
No AEs leading to premature discontinuation of study vaccine and/or study were reported during the 
study period.  
Other significant adverse events:  
From first dose up to study end, at least one NOCI was reported by no more than 1.2% of subjects and 
no pIMDs were reported by any subjects across all study groups.   
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 18/21 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy   
During the entire study period, 21 pregnancies were reported across the five groups (two in the ACWY-
TT group, five in the ACWYHPV group, four in the HPV group, six in the Co-ad group and four in the 
Tdap group). All 21 subjects had been exposed to study vaccines before conception (at Visit1) and 
were discontinued from further treatment, except for one subject who received the second dose of 
Cervarix in the first trimester of pregnancy at Visit 2 as the pregnancy test was negative. The 
pregnancy outcomes are as follows:  
-  One subject had an elective termination with no apparent congenital anomaly  
-  13 subjects had a live infant with no apparent congenital anomaly 
- 
- 
- 
Two subjects had spontaneous abortion with no apparent congenital anomaly (according to 
study protocol a pregnancy outcome with spontaneous abortion is considered an SAE).  
Three subjects were still pregnant at the end of the study  
Two subjects were lost to follow-up . 
Safety summary 
No safety concerns were identified. Nimenrix, Boostrix and Cervarix vaccines were well tolerated when 
coadministered to 9-25 years old females, and their safety profiles were not affected by 
coadministration of the three vaccines. 
CHMP comment 
No concerns were identified. Nimenrix, Boostrix and Cervarix vaccines were well tolerated when 
coadministered to 9-25 years old females. Their safety profiles were not affected by co-administration 
of the three vaccines. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion 
Based on the epidemiology of disease caused by N. meningitidis and Bordetella pertussis, adolescents 
stand to benefit from vaccination against both pathogens. Co-administration of MenACWY-TT Nimenrix 
with Boostrix (Tdap) was evaluated in male and female subjects aged between 11 and 25 years 
(adolescents and adults) in a separate clinical study. The current study MenACWY-TT-054 evaluated an 
unprecedented co-administration of Nimenrix , Cervarix and Boostrix as compared to administration of 
Nimenrix and Cervarix vaccines alone in females from 9 to 25 years of age. The current SmPC of 
Cervarix does not include any information on the co-administration of Cervarix with meningococcal 
vaccine. Co-administration of the three vaccines may contribute to improve the implementation and 
coverage of adolescent vaccination programmes. 
This phase III study was meant to assess the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of Nimenrix 
administered alone as compared to Nimenrix co-administered with Cervarix or co-administered with 
Cervarix and Tdap Boostrix in female adolescents and young adults at 9-25 years of age. 
All the co-primary objectives were met except one. In the primary analysis, non-inferiority of Cervarix 
co-administered with MenACWY-TT compared to Cervarix administered alone in terms of HPV16 and 
HPV18 GMTs as measured by ELISA one month after the third dose of Cervarix was demonstrated. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 19/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also, non-inferiority of Cervarix co-administered with Nimenrix and Boostrix compared to Cervarix co-
administered with Boostrix was demonstrated. 
Non-inferiority of the immunogenicity of Boostrix co-administered with Nimenrix and Cervarix (Co-ad 
group) was not demonstrated as compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix (Tdap group) 
with respect to GMC to each discrete pertussis antigen (PT, FHA and PRN) one month after Boostrix 
vaccination. The co-administration of Tdap Boostrix with Nimenrix and Cervarix one month later 
tended to elicit lower anti-PT, anti-FHA and anti-PRN GMCs as compared to Boostrix co-administered 
with Cervarix alone. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.  
As in the secondary analysis, the response rates and GMC fold increase between pre- and post-
vaccination showed robust responses to vaccination for each pertussis antigen in both groups (Co-ad 
group and Tdap group), suggesting – according to the MAH - that the statistically significant 
differences are not deemed to be clinically relevant.  
According to the Rapporteur, the SmPC of Cervarix should address these results and uncertainty.  
Indeed, the section 4.5 should provide information on the potential for clinically relevant interactions 
based on the pharmacodynamic properties and in vivo pharmacokinetic studies of the vaccines studied. 
Specifically, the existence or not of clinically relevant interference in the antibody response when co-
administration occurs should be adequately addressed. 
The current SmPC of Cervarix does not include any information on the co-administration of Cervarix 
with meningococcal vaccine. Meanwhile, information on the co-administartion of Cervarix with a 
Boostrix or Boostrix polio - with no clinically relevant interference with antibody response to any of the 
components of either vaccine – is included in section 4.5 of SmPC of Cervarix. Also, other co-
administration with Cervarix were addressed (combined hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B 
(rDNA) vaccine (Twinrix) or with hepatitis B (rDNA) vaccine) (Engerix B). 
However, the MAH does not consider an update of the SmPC with co-administration of Cervarix with 
meningococcal vaccine as relevant because of the limited use / limited number of European countries 
having a recommendation for quadrivalent meningococcal vaccination in adolescents. 
The rationale of the MAH cannot be supported and endorsed by the Rapporteur. This study provides 
new data regarding co-administration of Cervarix, i e with Nimenrix and with Nimenrix+Boostrix, which 
warrants an update of its SmPC. Therefore, the MAH is requested to address the results of this 
study MenACWY-TT-054 especially since non-inferiority of Boostrix co-administered with MenACWY-
TT and Cervarix compared to Boostrix co-administered with Cervarix with respect to Geometric mean 
concentration (GMC) to each discrete pertussis antigen (pertussis toxoid [PT], filamentous 
hemagglutinin [FHA] and pertactin [PRN]) one month after Boostrix vaccination was not demonstrated 
although the clinical relevance is unknown. The MAH is required to present a type II variation to 
update section 4.5 of the Cervarix SmPC. 
MS comments 
It is agreed with the Rapporteur that the SmPC section 4.5 of Cervarix should be updated with the 
information from this study.  
Although the MAH argued that use of quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine in adolescents is limited in 
EU, this appears to be changing with the upcoming Men W. For example in the Netherlands it has 
recently been decided to vaccinate in 2018 one year cohort of adolescents with a Men ACWY vaccine. It 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is important for prescribers to know that there is no immune interference between the two vaccines 
observed.  
In addition although the clinical relevance of the lower pertussis response (PT,FHA, PRN) with co-
administration of all three vaccines is not known, it is recommended to add this information in the 
SmPC, because the current information mentions that no interference was found by concomitantly 
administration of Cervarix and dTpa(-IPV) vaccines while sequential administration resulted in lower 
anti-HPV16 and anti-HPV-18 response. 
MAH response to the assessment comments 
After internal discussions, the MAH now agrees to update the interaction section of the 
Cervarix SmPC with these new available co-administration data.  
CHMP conclusion 
As requested, the commitment in this article 46 procedure P46 093 to update the Cervarix 
SmPC with the data from study MenACWY-TT-054 in a new type II variation is accepted by 
the MAH and therefore this PAM is fulfilled. 
  PAM fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/100422/2018  
Page 21/21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
