10 August 2022 
EMA/613778/2022 
Update of 6 February 2023: 
The shortage affecting Cetrotide (cetrorelix acetate) has been resolved and the below information 
and recommendations which were issued during the shortage no longer apply. 
Cetrotide (cetrorelix acetate) 
0.25 mg powder and solvent for solution for infusion 
Indication 
Cetrotide is used to prevent premature ovulation 
Reason for shortage 
Member States affected1 
Information for healthcare 
professionals 
(early release of eggs from the ovary). It is 
given to women having ovarian stimulation 
(fertility treatment where the ovaries are 
stimulated to produce more eggs). 
A technical issue at the main manufacturing site 
for Cetrotide resulted in closure of the site 
between December 2021 and March 2022. This 
has led to reductions and delays in the supply of 
the medicine which may affect certain Member 
States until the end of 2022. 
The quality of the manufactured and released 
product batches is not affected by these 
technical problems. 
Supply disruptions affect EU/EEA Member States 
where Cetrotide is marketed (Belgium, Bulgaria, 
Cyprus, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, 
Lithuania, Estonia, Luxembourg, Malta, 
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Romania). 
•
•
Technical problems at the main product
manufacturing site for Cetrotide have led to
a shortage.
Patients should not be started on a cycle
with Cetrotide. Please liaise with the
marketing authorisation holder (Merck)
contact point for further information. In the
1 This information may change. For up-to-date information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, contact the national competent authority. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 An agency of the European Union  
 
Cetrotide (cetrorelix acetate) 
0.25 mg powder and solvent for solution for infusion 
Information for patients  
absence of Cetrotide, you may use a suitable 
alternative available on the market. 
•  A letter (DHPC) regarding this issue was sent 
out to healthcare professionals and can also 
be found on the EMA website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the 
national competent authority. 
• 
Technical problems at the manufacturing site 
where Cetrotide is produced have resulted in 
a product shortage.  
•  During the shortage period, it is 
recommended that patients do not start 
treatment with this medicine.  
• 
• 
Instead, patients can be treated with a 
suitable alternative available on the market. 
Patients who have any questions should 
speak to their doctor or pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from the 
national competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing 
EMA/613778/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
