SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Cetrotide. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 March 2003. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
For  treatment  of  infertility  in  female  patients  with  non-functional  fallopian  tubes,  reconstructive 
surgery  has  been  the  only  therapy  for  many  years.  Since  new  treatment  possibilities  have  been 
developed  over  the  past  20  years,  including  in  vitro  fertilisation  and  embryo  transfer  (IVF-ET)  for 
infertility  treatment  in  women  with  non-functional  fallopian  tubes,  and  intracytoplasmatic  sperm 
injection (ICSI).  
Pharmacological stimulation of follicular growth and ovulation induction are essential for production 
of high quality oocytes. Assisted reproduction techniques (ART) are used to help couples with fertility 
problems.  The process is preceded by controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) with human menopausal 
gonadotropin  (hMG)  and  human  chorionic  gonadotropin  (hCG).  Human  menopausal  gonadotropin, 
containing FSH and LH, is used for stimulation of follicular growth, recombinant FSH (rec-FSH) has 
also been licensed for this indication. Human chorionic gonadotropin in doses of 5000 to 10000 IU is 
used  to  trigger  ovulation  in  stimulated  cycles.  A  premature  LH  surge  and  premature  ovulation  may 
lead  to  cancellation  of  the  stimulated  cycle.  In  order  to  avoid  a  premature  LH  surge,  pituitary  down 
regulation is employed in most centers. 
The  role  of  a  hypothalamic  peptide  factor  controlling  the  release  of  the  gonadotropin  luteinising 
hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) was established in the early 1970's. Since then 
many  analogues  of  gonadotropin  releasing  hormones  (GnRH  or  LHRH)  have  been  synthesised  to 
enhance the stability and affinity of the natural peptide which has a very short half-life (3-6 minutes). 
For  pituitary  down  regulation,  chronic  administration  of  these  agonists  results  in  a  desensitisation 
(down  regulation)  of  pituitary  receptors  and  inhibition  of  gonadotropin  and  sex  steroid  secretion 
leading  to  a  selective  medical  hypophysectomy  and  a  so-called  chemical  castration.  GnRH  agonist 
treatment  (often  as  a  depot  preparation)  is  started  in  the  luteal  phase  of  the  cycle  preceeding  the 
treatment (stimulation) cycle. The routine use of GnRH agonists prior to in vitro fertilisation / embryo 
transfer and gamete intrafallopian transfer results in a lower cancellation rate of cycles suggesting an 
improved pregnancy rate.  
LHRH-antagonists  were  also  used  instead  of  the  agonists.  They  are  devoid  of  the  initial  stimulation 
(flare up) and the treatment period can be shorter. A sufficient follicular stimulation may be achieved 
with  lower  doses  of  gonadotropins  (hMG).  However,  many  of  the  antagonists  provoked  histamine 
release, edema of the face and extremities, and anaphylactic reactions in rats and humans. 
Cetrorelix,  a  decapeptide  with  a  sequence  derived  from  LHRH,  is  a  LHRH-antagonist. It  effectively 
inhibits  the  release  of  LH  from  the  pituitary  gland;  sex  hormone  levels  are  suppressed  to  castration 
levels in men  and women. Two  different  dosages  have been investigated: multiple doses of 0.25 mg 
once daily and a single dose of 3 mg cetrorelix. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Composition 
Cetrotide is presented as lyophilised powder and solvent for solution for injection containing cetrorelix 
acetate  equivalent  respectively  to  0.25  and  3.0  mg  cetrorelix  base.  The  main  excipient  consists  of 
mannitol.  Acetic  acid  and  water  for  injection  were  used  during  the  manufacturing  process.  Prior  to 
subcutaneous  injection,  the  powders  are  for  reconstitution  with  1  ml  or  3  ml  of  water  for  injection, 
which are available in pre-filled syringes. All components with the exception of the active substance 
comply with relevant Ph.Eur. monographs. The composition of batches used in clinical trials is only 
different from the intended market formulation in the quantity of cetrorelix and mannitol. No overage 
of the active substance is introduced. 
1/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Container - The primary packaging material proposed for lyophilisated powders is Type I glass vials 
(2  ml  or  4  ml)  closed  with  a  brombutyl  rubber  stopper  and  protected  with  an  aluminium  cap.  The 
brombutyl  rubber  is  stabilised  against  oxidation.  The  quality  of  vials  and  rubber  stoppers  meet  with 
Ph.Eur. requirements, which has been confirmed by full specification with description of test methods 
used.  The  pre-filled  syringes  (Type  I  glass  cartridge  closed  with  rubber  stoppers)  used  for  water  for 
injection has already been authorised in some Member States and are of acceptable quality. However, 
the shelf-life should be restricted to that agreed for the finished product. 
Pharmaceutical development - Cetrorelix acetate is thermally labile and unstable in aqueous solution, 
therefore  sterilisation  by  filtration  and  lyophilisation  (freeze-drying)  are  considered  to  be  justified. 
Cetrorelix in solution tends to aggregate and gel. Mannitol was chosen for building up an acceptable 
solid  cake.  In  addition,  it  prevents  sublimation  during  lyophilisation  and  guarantees  an  isotonic 
solution  after  reconstitution  with  water  for  injection.  The  mannitol  concentration  was  fixed  and 
optimised  in  the  finished  dosage  form  in  order  to  obtain  an  isotonic  solution  after  reconstitution  for 
parenteral use.  
Active substance 
Cetrorelix  acetate  is  a  linear  decapeptide  with  a  molecular  weight  of  1431,  which  comprises  five  L-
amino and five D-amino acids including 1-2 mol acetic acid par 1 mol peptide. It is a white amorphous 
is  approximately  
powder  and  hygroscopic.  Its  solubility 
8 mg/ml and 5 mg/ml, respectively. 
in  water/mannitol 
in  water  and 
Cetrorelix  acetate  presents  no  polymorphic  forms.  The  evidence  of  its  chemical  structure  has  been 
adequately confirmed by the pathway of synthesis, by characterisation of the structure of the isolated 
key intermediates and of the active substance itself by elemental analysis, spectroscopic methods (ESI-
MS,  H1NMR,  C13NMR,  IR  and  UV),  X-ray  diffraction,  optical  rotation.  Deduction  of  amino  acid 
sequence  and  enantiomeric  analysis  were  also  performed  to  provide  further  supportive  evidence  of 
chemical structure. 
Cetrorelix  acetate  is  manufactured  by  approximately  a  26-step  synthesis  with  satisfactory  in-process 
control of intermediates applied at key steps throughout. HPLC method was used for final purification. 
Potential  impurities  have  been  considered,  including  a  possible  by-product  of  racemisation  during 
synthesis,  related  substances,  paladium  and  residual  solvents.  Specifications  have  been  set  for  the 
synthesis  starting  materials  and  intermediates.  They  are  in  line  with  batch  release  data  and  batches 
used  in  preclinical  and  clinical  studies.  The  sum  of  four  stereoisomeric  peptide  impurities,  which 
cannot  be  completely  resolved  altogether  by  HPLC,  is  specified  as  no  more  than  0.1%.  Acceptable 
limits of 0.5% and 1.5%, respectively, were set for the sum of unknown impurities and the total sum of 
impurities.  Residual  solvents  are  also  specified  at  a  suitable  level  in  agreement  with  CPMP/ICH 
guidance.  Appropriate  microbiological  control  is  performed  with  a  suitable  limit  for  bioburden.  All 
analytical  methods  for  starting  materials  and  intermediates  have  been  adequately  validated.  Batch 
analysis data indicate suitable uniformity and batch-to-batch consistency.  
The  active  substance  in  solid  state  was  tested  for  up  to  18  months  under  different  temperatures  and 
relative  humidities.  It  was  also  stressed  in  solution,  under  the  influence  of  pH,  temperature  and 
oxidative  conditions.  Increase  of  water  can  be  observed,  but  chemical  and  microbiological  stability 
was  not  affected.  Photostability  testing  was  adequately  carried  out.  Potential  degradation  products 
remain  within  the  proposed  specifications.  Overall,  the  data  support  the  re-test  period  of  18  months 
under the proposed storage conditions. 
Other ingredients 
The  manufacture  of  water  for  injection  was  carried-out  in  a  6-step  distillation  process.  Satisfactory 
information has been provided on the excipients which are all of Ph.Eur. quality.  
2/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
Manufacture, control and validation - Bulk solution is filtered and pre-sterilisation is applied. Aseptic 
filling into sterile and depyrogenised vials is performed with a second sterile filtration before filling, 
then  lyophilisation  of  the  solution  under  aseptic  conditions  is  carried-out.  The  vials  are  fitted  with 
sterile stoppers and caps. Visual control of all vials is performed. 
In-process  controls  are  set  up  and  their  parameters  are  specified.  Aseptic  filling  process  and  routine 
environmental  controls  are  also  performed  and  validated.  Relevant  microbiological  control  includes 
bioburden of the solution prior to filtration. Maximum holding times are validated. 
The  critical  stages  in  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated.  Results  from  production  scale 
batch analyses showed that all batches complied with specifications and demonstrated acceptable batch 
to batch consistency.  
Product specification - The specification for content of active substance at release is 95 – 105% of the 
nomination value, and at least 90% at the end of shelf-life. Content uniformity is in accordance with 
the  Ph.Eur.  requirement.  Related  impurities  are  controlled  at  release  and  end  of  shelf-life  based  on 
batch analytical results and stability results, and validated with reference to preclinical studies.  
Other  tests  include  pH,  colour,  average  filling,  turbidity  of  reconstituted  solution,  water  and  acetate 
content,  bacterial  endotoxin  and  sterility.  In  addition,  injectable  amount  with  regard  to  withdrawal 
volume has been investigated and mentioned in the SPC. All control methods have been validated in a 
satisfactory way. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data up to 24 months are available for 3 batches of each strength. Different storage conditions 
have been studied: -10ºC, 8ºC, 25ºC/60%RH and 30ºC/70%RH (for up to 24 months), 40ºC/75%RH (6 
months) and light cabinet (3 months). Results have been generated by validated methods and support 
the (un-opened) shelf-life stated in the SPC, i.e. 2 years when stored at temperatures below to 25°C in 
the  outer  carton.  In  addition,  after  reconstitution  stability  tests  were  conducted,  which  indicate  that 
both formulations, as mentioned in the SPC, should be used immediately. 
In  summary,  Cetrotide  0.25  mg  and  3  mg  powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection  are 
conventionally formulated and manufactured using standard pharmaceutical technology. The chemical-
pharmaceutical  dossier  is  adequately  documented  and  generally  acceptable.  The  company  was 
however  requested  to  provide,  within  the  agreed  timeframe,  additional  information/data  which  have 
not been satisfactorily resolved; these are defined in the follow-up measures as listed in the company's 
undertaking letter (see section II.3 of this report).   
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Cetrorelix is a luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) antagonist, which competes reversibly 
with the hormone in binding to the membrane receptors on pituitary cells. Due to this mode of action, 
cetrorelix dose-dependently inhibits the secretion of two gonadotropins luteinising hormone (LH) and 
to  a  lesser  degree,  follicle  stimulating  hormone  (FSH)  from  the  pituitary  gland  in  mice,  rats  and 
cynomolgus  monkeys.  The  onset  of  suppression  is  almost  immediate  and  there  is  no  apparent  initial 
stimulatory effect, i.e. no “flare-up”. The suppression is maintained by continuous treatment and has 
been shown to be reversible after discontinuation of the treatment. Given in sufficiently high doses, a 
reversible cessation of reproductive function is observed in both female and male animals. 
Cetrorelix binds with high affinity to LHRH receptors, and labelled LHRH was shown to be displaced 
from  the  two  classes  of  LHRH  receptors  by  the  compound.  In  vitro,  cetrorelix  dose-dependently 
inhibited the LHRH-mediated LH release in perfused rat pituitary cell systems. Further, in a recently 
established in vitro assay, cetrorelix proved to be a high affinity antagonist at the LHRH-receptor and 
dose-dependently blocked the signal transduction induced by LHRH. 
In vivo, cetrorelix effectively blocked ovulation in female rats. It suppressed the preovulatory LH-peak 
as  well  as  the  FSH-peaks.  Cetrorelix  markedly  decreased  plasma  LH  concentrations  and  to  a  lesser 
3/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
degree FSH concentrations in ovariectomized female rats. All effects were reversible. In castrated male 
rats, cetrorelix induced a dose dependent suppression of the secretion of LH. High doses resulted in a 
dramatic  fall  of  serum  testosterone  to  castration  levels  at  6  hours  after  injection  in  intact  males. 
Thereafter,  testosterone  levels  only  slowly  recovered.  Even  though  the  initial  fall  of  plasma 
testosterone  requires  rather  high  doses  of  cetrorelix,  complete  and  continuous  suppression  can  be 
maintained by remarkably lower maintenance doses. Cetrorelix was also able to block LHRH-agonist 
induced LH response in male rats. The LHRH-antagonistic effects of cetrorelix were confirmed in the 
primate Macaca fascicularis. 
The  main  metabolite  of  cetrorelix  in  the  rat  bile  was  identified  as  being  the  heptapeptide(1-7).  This 
metabolite was pharmacologically inactive in rats, in terms of testosterone suppression. 
Cetrorelix  produced  growth  inhibition  in  both  the  rat  DMBA  breast  cancer  model  and  mouse  MXT 
mammary  adenocarcinoma  model.  In  addition,  the  efficacy  of  cetrorelix  was  confirmed  in  other  in 
vitro  and  in  vivo  tumor  models,  e.g.  chemically-induced  pancreatic  cancer,  hormone-independent 
prostatic cancer, human ovarian- and endometrial cancer models. 
The  histamine  releasing  potential  of  cetrorelix  is very low. Cetrorelix  caused histamine release from 
isolated rat mast cells only after concentrations of >0.9 µg/ml. In clinical situations, single s.c. doses of 
3 mg of cetrorelix produce plasma levels of about 30 ng/ml. No limiting anaphylactoid reactions were 
observed within preclinical testing. 
Cetrorelix  shows  a  favourable  safety-profile.  It  had  no  effects  on  the  cardio-vascular  parameters  of 
pigs.  Similarly,  no  effects  on  the  respiratory  function  of  anaesthetised  guinea  pigs  or  rats  were 
observed. Furthermore, cetrorelix induced no gastric erosions in rats and was devoid of effects on the 
gastro-intestinal transit, spontaneous motor activity and motor co-ordination in mice. 
Cetrorelix had no effect on the hexobarbital-induced or ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex in male 
mice. No other preclinical drug interaction studies have been performed.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  predominantly  in  rats  and  dogs.  Absorption  from  the  s.c. 
injection site was rapid and complete and there were no differences in absorption with regard to sex or 
species.  A  linear  relationship  between  dose  and  plasma  AUC  was  evident.  Distribution  of  cetrorelix 
was rapid. Main target organs were the kidney, liver, small intestine and organs containing the LHRH 
receptor  (pituitary  gland,  ovaries).  Plasma  protein  binding  amounted  to  86%.  Elimination  from  most 
tissues was rapid and occurred predominantly within 48h. Half-lives of ≥100 h were observed mainly 
in  organs  of  elimination  (liver,  kidney),  spleen  and  in  the  organs  containing  LHRH  binding  sites. 
Cetrorelix  crosses  the  placenta  only  to  a  low  extent.  The  distribution  of  cetrorelix  or  its  metabolites 
into  milk  was  not  investigated.  Cetrorelix  is  excreted  unchanged  into  urine  and  after  metabolism  by 
peptidases into bile. The terminal half-lives in rats after i.v. and s.c. administration were 1-2 h and 7-14 
h,  respectively,  indicating  that  absorption  is  the  rate  limiting  step  for  elimination.  In  humans,  the 
terminal half-life values after i.v. and s.c. administration were 8-9 h and 24-40 h, respectively. Studies 
in healthy volunteers indicate that cetrorelix is excreted in a similar manner in humans, rats and dogs. 
No significant differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters between the repeated-dose study and the 
single-dose data were found. Furthermore, no accumulation of cetrorelix occurred following repeated 
s.c. administration. 
Toxicology  
Single  dose  toxicity  of  cetrorelix  after  oral  and  i.p.  administration  was  studied  in  rats  and  mice.  The 
acute oral toxicity was low. After i.p. injection, doses ≥21.5 mg/kg caused reduced or slow movement, 
sunken sides, cyanosis of the skin and co-ordination disturbances. 68.1 mg/kg was determined as the 
minimal lethal dose. 
Repeated-dose toxicity In the five repeated-dose toxicity studies of up to 26 weeks, performed on rats 
and dogs, daily s.c. injections of up to 0.5 mg/kg of cetrorelix were well tolerated. No particular organ 
toxicity was determined. All observed changes appeared to be related to the pharmacological action of 
cetrorelix  and,  thus  are  secondary  to  suppression  of hormone levels.  Minimal  local irritant  effects at 
the injection sites are partially related to a deposition and an accumulation of the drug in macrophages. 
All the findings were reversible or tended to be reversed during off-dose. 
4/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity Standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests was carried out. No evidence of 
mutagenic  or  clastogenic  potential  was  found  and  it  can  be  concluded  that  cetrorelix  will  not  exert 
genotoxic activities under therapeutic conditions. 
Carcinogenicity No carcinogenicity studies have been performed. 
Reproductive  and  development  toxicity  studies  Cetrorelix  expectedly  induced  a  dose-related 
suppression  of  fertility,  reproductive  performance  and  pregnancy  in  female  rats  and  a  dose-related 
suppression  of  fertility  in  male  rats.  The  effects  were  reversible  after  cessation  of  treatment.  No 
treatment-related  foetal  abnormalities  were  detected  in  rats  or  in  rabbits  when  the  drug  was 
administered during the relative sensitive phase of organogenesis. 
Local tolerance i.v., s.c. and intramuscular injections to beagle dogs were generally well tolerated with 
no clinically relevant signs of local irritation. 
Special toxicity studies Cetrorelix did not induce sensitisation in the guinea pig Maximization test. 
Summary and conclusion on preclinical pharmacology and toxicology: 
Cetrorelix  is  a  potent  antagonist  of  LHRH  in  various  in  vitro  and  animal  models  and  binds 
competitively and with high affinity to pituitary LHRH-receptors. The subsequent LH-suppression is 
induced  within  a  few  hours  after  the  start  of  treatment  and  thus  avoids  the  flare-up  effect.  A  dose-
dependent  and  reversible  suppression  of  the  secretion  of  gonadotropins,  especially  LH,  from  the 
pituitary  gland  ensues  resulting  in  a  cessation  of  reproductive  function  both  in  female  and  male 
animals. 
Cetrorelix  shows  a  favourable  safety-profile  and  no  limiting  anaphylactoid  reactions  were  observed 
during preclinical testing. The pharmacokinetics of cetrorelix have been well characterised in rats and 
dogs. Findings in toxicity studies appear to be related to the pharmacological actions of cetrorelix and 
are thus secondary to suppression of hormone levels. No teratogenicity was detected and mutagenicity 
tests were also negative. No carcinogenicity studies have been performed and none are necessary given 
the short duration of intended use. The doses used in repeated-dose and reproductive toxicity studies 
provide  an  acceptable  safety  margin,  in  terms  of  Cmax  and  AUC,  for  the  proposed  dose  regimen. 
Overall, the risk-benefit ratio is considered positive and the preclinical data revealed no special risk for 
human. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The core clinical programme, consisting of 9 Phase II/III clinical studies where a total of 878 patients 
were given cetrorelix acetate (CET), was aimed at evaluating the efficacy and safety of CET for the 
prevention of premature ovulation in patients undergoing a controlled ovarian stimulation, followed by 
assisted reproductive techniques (COS/ART). There were four exploratory studies (0008, 0009b, 0012 
and  IC93005),  two  dose  finding  studies  (2986  and  2997)  and  three  therapeutic  confirmatory  studies 
(3010,  3020  and  3030).    In  addition,  a  total  of  14  Phase  I  clinical  pharmacology  studies  were 
submitted, where 137 healthy males and 71 healthy females were enrolled. Studies were performed in 
accordance with GCP standards. 
Due to the nature of the treatments and the manner of use of this medicinal product, most studies were 
open label. Both single and multiple dose regimens were investigated. 
(1) 
Human pharmacology  
(2) 
Pharmacodynamics  -  Cetrotide  (CET)  is  a  LHRH  antagonist  which  competes  with 
endogenous  LHRH  for  receptors  on  pituitary  cells.  The  evidence  for  receptor  binding  was  derived 
from animal studies. The effect of cetrorelix in healthy male or female volunteers was investigated in  
8 pharmacodynamic studies. 
In  female  volunteers  (at  doses  of  cetrorelix  0.25  and  0.5  mg)  a  rapid  dose  dependent  suppression  of 
LH, FSH and estradiol (E2) were observed, the duration of the effect (suppression of LH) was up to 12 
hours  and  increased  with  increasing  dosages.  Single  dose  administration  (3.0  or  5.0  mg)  during  the 
early  follicular  phase  (estradiol  exceeded  150  pg/ml)  delayed  the  spontaneous  LH  surge  by  at  least  
3 days. Repeated administration (0.5 or 1.0 mg cetrorelix) resulted in constant suppression of LH, FSH 
5/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
and an estradiol nadir of 12 pg/ml, whereas during repeated administration of 0.25 mg cetrorelix, LH 
and estradiol were suppressed initially and then tended to increase. 
In male volunteers the suppressive effect of cetrorelix on LH, FSH and testosterone was observed, both 
with single doses (0.25 and up to 5.0 mg) and multiple doses (up to 10.0 mg). These effects were dose-
related.  At  the  higher  dose  of  10  mg,  the  testosterone  suppression  reached  castration  level  
(<2 mmol/l). After 3 mg cetrorelix, the resulting suppression of LH was more than 50 % decrease from 
baseline  and  the  testosterone  suppression  lasted  30  hours.  The  duration  of  suppression  was  dose 
dependent. 
GnRH  stimulation  was  not  totally  suppressed  by  cetrorelix,  but  GnRH  stimulation  of  FSH  was  less 
pronounced following treatment with cetrorelix. The higher doses of 15 and 20 mg did not enhance the 
suppressive effect. The most common adverse events observed in phase I studies were local injection 
site  reactions.  There  was  also  some  suggestion  of  decrease  in  systolic  as  well  as  diastolic  blood 
pressure and an increase in heart rate in the phase I studies.  
Pharmacokinetics  -  Cetrorelix  in  human  plasma  was  measured  by  radioimmunoassay,  and 
(3) 
HPLC was employed for measurement in urine. These methods were adequately validated. 
Following subcutaneous injection, the absolute bioavailability of cetrorelix was approximately 85% in 
both  males  and  females.  The  apparent  volume  of  distribution  was  1.16  ±  0.29  l/kg  in  females  and  
1.02 ± 0.33 l/kg in males. The terminal half-life (t1/2) was about 10 hours after i.v. and 30 hours after 
subcutaneous injection with a trend towards lower values in female. Protein binding in human plasma 
was  around  85%.  Linear  pharmacokinetics  were  observed  following  both  single  (0.25,  0.5  and  
1.00 mg) and multiple dose administration (0.25 to 1.00 mg). The pharmacokinetics were linear up to a 
3 mg dose. 
Cetrorelix 
is  metabolised  by  peptidases.  Small  amounts  of  metabolites  (1-9  nonapeptide,  
1-7  heptapeptide,  1-6  heptapeptide  and  1-4  tetrapeptide)  were  detected  in  animal  urine  (rat,  dog)  in 
addition  to  unchanged  CET,  whereas  only  unchanged  CET  has  been  detected  in  human  urine. 
Following subcutaneous injection, 3.5-4.0% of the administered dose appeared unchanged in urine, no 
potential metabolite (1-7 heptapeptide) was detected. No indication of accumulation has been reported. 
Pharmacokinetic studies in special populations (i.e. elderly, children, subject with moderate to severe 
renal  or hepatic impairment) have not been performed. Use in elderly and subjects with moderate to 
severe renal and hepatic impairment are contraindicated in the SPC. Due to the nature of its indication, 
Cetrotide is unlikely to be used in children. 
There  were  no  data  on  drug  interactions.  Interactions  with  hMG  and  hCG  have  not  been  observed, 
plasma  levels  of  cetrorelix  during  follicular  stimulation  did  not  differ  from  plasma  levels  in  healthy 
individuals. In vitro investigations indicated no evidence of cetrorelix metabolism by cytochrome P450 
enzymes, glucuronyltransferases or other conjugating enzymes. 
Efficacy 
In  all  phase  II/III  studies,  the  therapeutic  procedure  for  controlled  ovarian  stimulation  (COS)  was 
nearly identical. In the phase III studies treatment with hMG started on day 2 of the menstrual cycle 
with daily doses of 150 IU hMG (2 ampoules, each containing 75 IU FSH and 75 IU LH) given i.m.  
From  day  6  of  hMG  treatment,  the  dose  of  hMG  was  adjusted  according  to  follicular  maturation 
criteria.  On  the  same  day  the  first  dose  of  cetrorelix  was  given  s.c.  into  the  lower  abdominal  wall 
around the umbilicus. In case of daily cetrorelix administration the last dose was given on the day of 
hCG.  As  soon  as  at  least  one  follicle  with  a  diameter  of  20  mm  was  observed  or  E2  exceeded  1200 
pg/ml, treatment with hMG was stopped and hCG 10000 IU were administered i.m. Oocyte retrieval 
took place 30-36 hours later 
Patient  population  –  Healthy  female  partners  of  infertile  couples  aged  between  18  and  39  years 
(suffering  from  sterility  due  to  tubal  dysfunction)  were  included.  Further  inclusion  criteria  were  a 
normal menstrual cycle (24-35 days), normal uterus and at least one functioning ovary, patients with 
elevated FSH levels at screening were excluded. The usual exclusion criteria for ART were applied. 
Efficacy  parameters  –  The  primary  endpoint  in  most  studies  was  prevention  of  premature  LH  surge 
(defined in terms of LH > 10 IU/l and PROG > 1ng/ml) but the definition of LH surge varied between 
different study protocols.  
6/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
In therapeutic confirmatory studies (i.e. 3010 and 3020), the primary objective was the prevention of 
premature LH surges defined in terms of LH and progesterone (PROG) levels. The statistical section 
of  the  protocol  indicated  that  a  patient  will  be  considered  as  a  responder  "if  hCG  day  is  reached" 
(meaning administration of hCG) and it will be the primary variable. 
Secondary  variables  comprised  endocrine  profiles  of  LH,  FSH,  E2  and  PROG  during  the  procedure, 
number and size of follicles, number and quality of oocytes and embryos, duration of stimulation and 
dose of hMG, outcome of the procedure in terms of pregnancy and birth rate, ovarian cyst formation 
before stimulation period and luteal phase support.  
Pregnancy  and  delivery  data  after  COS/ART  employing  the  LHRH-antagonist  cetrorelix  were  also 
analysed in 6 dose-finding phase II (with a total of 229 patients receiving cetrorelix) and 3 phase III 
studies (649 patients receiving cetrorelix). 
Exploratory  studies  -  Four  exploratory  studies  (0008,  0009b,  0012  and  IC93005)  were  conducted 
using  different  dosage  regimens  of  CET:  single  dose  (3  mg  or  5  mg)  and  multiple  doses  (0.5  mg  or  
1 mg/day; twice 3 or 5 mg; 1 and 3 mg/day followed by 5 mg or 1 mg/day). No LH surge was reported 
in either dose group. There was no effect of CET on FSH, PROG or E2. 
Dose  finding  -  Two  dose  finding  studies  (2986,  2997)  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  minimal 
effective single dose and the efficacy of multiple doses of cetrorelix to prevent premature ovulation in 
patients undergoing COS/ART.  
A total of 65 patients were recruited (study 2986) to receive a single dose of either 2 or 3 mg CET. 
While 3 mg dose was constantly effective in preventing LH surge after 4 days, the 2 mg dose effect 
was not sustained showing a tendency of LH increase after 3 days.  
In the multiple dose study (2997), ninety patients were included, who either received a starting dose of 
0.5  mg/day  (with  eventually  a  down-titration  to  lower  dose),  0.25  mg  or  0.1  mg/day.  None  of  the 
patients in CET dose groups of 0.25 mg or 0.5 mg experienced LH surges while one patient in 0.1 mg 
dose  group  showed  an  LH  surge.  Hormonal  levels  of  FSH,  E2  and  PROG  were  not  affected  by 
cetrorelix. The minimal dose of 0.1 mg cetrorelix proved to be not sufficiently effective, and therefore 
was no longer administered. 
Consequently, 0.25 mg cetrorelix was shown to be the minimum effective dose. Two dosage regimens 
were proposed for Phase III studies: (1) daily dose of 0.25 mg starting on day 5 or 6 of hMG; (2) a 
single dose of 3 mg on day 7 of hMG, eventually followed by once daily 0.25 mg after 4 days. Both 
regimens are administered until ovulation induction. 
Therapeutic  confirmatory  -  Three  multicentre  prospective  studies  were  conducted  to  support  the 
claimed  indication,  one  uncontrolled  and  two  comparing  cetrorelix  (CET)  and  LHRH-agonists 
(buserelin  and  triptorelin).  Numbers  of  patients  were  based  on  estimating  the  response  rate  on 
cetrorelix, based on a  target response rate of 95%,  with  a slightly larger 5%  possible error. Efficacy 
evaluation based on the intention to treat (ITT) population was given. The most frequent posology was 
0.25 mg cetrorelix starting on day 6 of hMG (study 3020) (n=346) or on day 5-6 (study 3010) (n=188) 
of hMG-stimulation. The single dose of 3 mg started on day 7 of hMG (study 3030) (n=115) or earlier, 
when the E2-levels exceeded 400 pg/ml. The reference treatments were buserelin (BUS) 0.15 mg intra-
nasal  administration  four  times  daily  (starting  on  day  18-22  of  the  preceding  cycle)  and  triptorelin 
(TRI) 3.75 mg depot single intramuscular administrations. 
Study  3010  was  a  randomised,  parallel  group,  controlled  trial,  which  compared  daily  doses  of 
cetrorelix with buserelin in the prevention of premature LH surges in patients undergoing COS/ART. 
A  total  of  293  patients  were  randomised  and  273  patients  were  evaluable  for  efficacy  on  ITT  basis 
(188 received cetrorelix and 85 buserelin). 
The mean duration of cetrorelix treatment was 5.7 days. Success rate, defined as absence of LH surge, 
was 95.2% for CET group and 98% of patients on buserelin. On an ITT basis and in terms of reaching 
the day of hCG, the success rate was 96.3% in CET group and 90.6% in the buserelin group. Increases 
of LH above 10 IU/l without increase of progesterone occurred in 10.1% (19) of patients in the CET 
group  versus  4.7%  (3)  in  the  buserelin  group.  However,  some  of  these  LH  increases  did  not  lead  to 
failure to administer hCG or to complete fertilisation procedures, and hence they may not have clinical 
significance. There was no effect of either treatment on FSH. In buserelin group, levels of LH and E2 
7/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
were lower on hMG day 1 as well as day 6, but E2 levels were higher on the day of hCG which may be 
caused by a higher number of small follicles in this group.  
Study 3020 was an uncontrolled trial aimed at investigating the efficacy and safety of daily doses of 
cetrorelix  in  prevention  of  premature  LH  surges  during  controlled  ovarian  stimulation.  The  multiple 
dosing schedule used was similar to the study 3010. 
The primary efficacy variable was defined as reaching the day of hCG but the rate of premature LH 
surges was also analysed. Overall, 352 patients were screened and 346 patients were evaluable as the 
intention to treat population.  
The  mean  duration  of  cetrorelix  treatment  was  5.7  days,  with  an  average  of  1  to  1.5  mg  cetrorelix 
administered. The duration of follicular stimulation was 10.4 (6-19) days. Surges of LH were observed 
in 12 patients of the ITT population, in eight of which fertilisation and embryo transfer were possible 
and  one  woman  became  pregnant.  Increase  of  LH  (=  10  UI/l)  without  concomitant  progesterone 
increase was also observed in 27 patients. The success rate for absence of LH surge was 96.5% and for 
reaching  hCG  day  was  96.2%  of  ITT  analysis  (with  a  lower  bound  for  the  95%  confidence  limit  of 
94.1%, which is slightly below the targeted 95%). 
A continuous and homogenous follicle development was observed between day 6 of hMG and the day 
of hCG. The number and quality of obtained embryos is in accordance with the results of controlled 
studies. 
Study 3030 was a parallel group study comparing a single dose of cetrorelix and a triptorelin depot. A 
total of 169 patients was randomised. There were 151 patients (115 cetrorelix and 36 triptorelin) in the 
ITT  analysis.  A  single  dose  of  each  treatment  was  given  at  different  times  in  an  open  fashion.  The 
primary endpoint was planned to be the occurrence of premature LH surges defined in terms of LH and 
progesterone levels and occurring after day 5 of hMG. 
Only 11 patients (9.6%) received one or two additional doses of cetrorelix 0.25 mg. The mean duration 
of follicular stimulation was 9.4 days for the cetrorelix group and 10.7 days for the triptorelin group, 
24.3 vs. 35.6 ampoules (mean) of hMG were administered. 
Levels of  LH above 10 IU/l occurred  in 18 patients in the CET group and in one patient in the TRI 
group.  These  LH  increases  in  CET  group  were  however  observed  before  the  administration  of  the 
study  medication  but  not  after  the  administration  of  cetrorelix.  Taking  the  LH  surge  in  terms  of 
luteinising hormone levels alone led to a response rate of 84.3% for cetrorelix. The ITT incidence of 
the responders was 97.4% in CET group and 97.2% in TRI group.  
On  the  day  of  hCG,  the  number  of  medium  sized  follicles  (15-17  mm)  was  slightly  higher  in  the 
triptorelin group. No differences were observed between the groups concerning FSH, LH and PROG, 
but  E2  levels  on  hCG  day  were  higher  in  TRI  group  which  may  be  attributed  to  higher  number  of 
follicles in TRI group. 
Luteal support - In COS/ART programmes using LHRH-agonists for down-regulation of endogenous 
gonadotrophin  production,  luteal  phase  support  is  generally  recommended  as  it  is  believed  that  the 
treatment may result in luteal phase defects. Controlled ovarian stimulation (hMG and hCG) results in 
a decrease of LH levels to the detection limit on the day of embryo transfer (ET), this has been shown 
in patients treated with cetrorelix, buserelin or triptorelin. No final conclusions are possible, whether 
the suppression depends on the LHRH-analogues or on long-term effect of hCG. In all clinical studies, 
luteal  phase  support  was  given  according  to  the  rules  of  the  centre,  in  most  cases  progesterone,  few 
centres administered hCG or a combination of progesterone and hCG. A recommendation concerning 
luteal support according to the reproductive medical centre's practice is mentioned in the SPC. 
Evaluation  of  pregnancies  and  deliveries  -  Different  ART  procedures  were  used  in  the  studies. 
IVF/ET and ICSI are highly sophisticated procedures, which differ more or less from centre to centre; 
IVF  and  ICSI  resulted  in  a  similar  pregnancy  rate  which  was  between  20  and  27%  in  cetrorelix 
patients. The following table gives an overview on patients reaching the day of hCG, on patients with 
ovum pick-up (OPU), patients with ET, pregnancies and deliveries: 
8/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Study no  Treatm  N  
(ITT) 
day of 
hCG (%) 
OPU 
(%) 
ET (%) 
preg. 
(%) 
Deliv (%)/life birth (%)* 
Total 
Phase II 
Study 
3010 
Study 
3020 
Study 
3030 
Total 
phase III 
Cet 
229 
225 (98) 
222 (96) 
210 (91)  72 (31) 
51 (22) / 62 (27) 
Cet 
188 
181 (96) 
178 (95) 
157 (84)  45 (24) 
32 (17) / 39(20) 
Bus 
Cet 
85 
346 
77 (91) 
77 (91) 
67 (79) 
25 (29) 
19 (22) / 22 (26) 
333 (96) 
324 (94) 
297 (86)  72 (21) 
50 (14) / 68 (20) 
Cet 
115 
113 (98) 
113 (98) 
99 (86) 
30 (26) 
25 (22) / 32 (28) 
Trip 
36 
36 (100) 
36 (100) 
33 (92) 
14 (39) 
9 (25) / 13 (36) 
Cet 
649 
627 (97) 
615 (95) 
553 (85)  147 (23)  107 (16) / 139 (21) 
Control  121 
113 (93) 
113 (93) 
100 (83)  39 (32) 
28 (23) / 35 (29) 
* including data until July 1998 
Few of the cycles were replacement cycles in which no cetrorelix treatment was given; in these cases a 
frozen  embryo  originating  from  a  cycle  during  which  stimulation  with  hMG  and  treatment  with 
cetrorelix or comparator drug took place, was transferred. 
No  firm  conclusion  can  be  drawn  concerning  the  effectiveness  of  the  cryopreservation  programme. 
However, the limited data on frozen-thawed cycles did not show a detrimental effect. 
In  phase  II  studies,  59  pregnancies  (25%)  occurred  after  the  first  embryo  transfer  and  additional  
13  pregnancies  were  achieved  after  the  first  or  second  replacement  of  frozen  and  thawed  embryos, 
showing an overall pregnancy success rate of 31%. A total of 62 children were born. 
In phase III, the results of comparative studies in terms of pregnancies and deliveries suggest a higher 
pregnancy (9% difference) and birth rate under treatment with LHRH-agonists. There is no statistical 
interpretation for the different pregnancy rates.  
Miscarriages  occurred  in  approximately  16%  of  the  pregnancies  in  the  phase  II  and  III  studies; 
pregnancies  achieved  in  replacement  cycles  had  a  higher  abortion  rate  of  more  than  23%.  Four 
abortions  in  the  phase  II  studies  (three  of  them  in  replacement  cycles)  were  performed  due  to 
anatomical  defects  or  chromosomal  abnormalities.  One  anatomical  defect  and  no  chromosomal 
abnormality  were  reported  for  cetrorelix  in  phase  III  studies.  Ectopic  pregnancies  occurred  in  eight 
cases of 219 pregnancies. 
The comparison of the pregnancy rates in cetrorelix and buserelin/triptorelin treated patients with the 
published data shows an exceptionally high pregnancy rate in triptorelin treated patients and rates for 
cetrorelix,  which  are  comparable  with  published  literature.  A  benefit  comparable  to  established 
treatments can be assumed for cetrorelix.  
Summary on efficacy: 
Two dosage regimens have been confirmed. CET 0.25 mg as multiple dose and CET 3 mg as single 
dose  are  effective  in  preventing  LH  surges.  Treatment  with  daily  doses  of  0.25  mg  starting  (studies 
3010 and 3020) on day 5-6 of follicle stimulation or with a single dose of 3 mg (study 3030) on day  
7  of  follicle  stimulation  (in  some  cases  followed  by  daily  injection  of  0.25  mg  after  4  days)  until 
ovulation induction is recommended to prevent an LH surge. On either efficacy criteria, absence of LH 
surge or day of hCG, CET was successful in the majority of patients.  
9/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  clinical  trials,  cetrorelix  was  used  with  human  menopausal gonadotropin (hMG),  however  limited 
experience  with  recombinant  FSH  (61  patients  undergoing  COS/ART  in  whom  ovarian  stimulation 
with  rec-FSH  took  place,  50%  of  whom  received  cetrorelix  3  mg  single  dose  and  another  50%  of 
whom cetrorelix multiple doses of 0.25 mg) suggested similar efficacy. This was addressed in the SPC.  
There  is  limited  experience  up  to  now  with  the  administration  of  cetrorelix  3  mg  during  a  repeated 
ovarian stimulation procedure. Therefore cetrorelix 3 mg should be used in repeated cycles only after 
careful risk/benefit evaluation. 
Safety 
The assessment of the safety of cetrorelix is based on the integrated summary including database from 
878 female (during  881  stimulated cycles) and 196 male subjects exposed  to  cetrorelix,  125  females 
exposed to reference treatments and 39 males exposed to placebo.  
Discontinuation - Two patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events, one patient on CET had 
injection site reaction, and another on placebo had urticaria. 
Adverse events - The most common adverse events were injection site reactions (with an incidence of 
9.4%  following  multiple  injections  of  0.25  mg  cetrorelix),  e.g.  erythema,  inflammatory  reactions, 
bruising,  red  plaque,  itching,  swelling  and  induration.  The  incidence  of  these  events  was  higher  in 
females in phase I studies and in single dose studies. Among female subjects, other common adverse 
events observed in phase I studies were hot flushes, menstrual disorder, inter-menstrual bleeding and 
pruritus; in addition to injection site reaction, those reported in COS/ART (phase II /III) studies were 
nausea, headache, hot flushes, menstrual and ovarian disorder. In male subjects with benign prostatic 
hyperplasia  (C2980)  treated  with  cetrorelix,  hot  flushes  and  impotence  were  frequently  reported;  a 
dose-related effect was noted. Decreased libido was also reported by both male and female subjects. 
The  events  reported  as  likely  causally  related  were  injection  site  reaction,  nausea,  pruritus  and 
headache. They are mentioned in the SPC. 
Serious  adverse  events  -  Eight  serious  adverse  events  were  reported,  5  of  them  were  ovarian 
hyperstimulation  syndromes  (OHSS).  The  3  other  cases  included  one  patient  with  urinary  infection, 
one  patient  with  diarrhoea,  nausea  and  abdominal  pain,  and  one  patient  with  a  probable  abdominal 
infection and distension by gas. 
In men with benign prostatic hyperplasia, the serious events observed were cardiac distress (in subject 
with a history of coronary artery disease), chest pain (assessed as non related), myocardial infarction 
(in patient with a history of myocardial infarction 3 and half months after study drug medication) and 
elective  coronary  revascularisation.  The  assessment  of  causal  relationship  revealed  in  all  cases  of 
serious adverse events that a causal relationship was unlikely. 
Laboratory parameters - In phase I studies, urea increased by 12.7%, triglycerides by 42.8%, HDL by 
14.4%  and  platelets  by  9%.  In  COS/ART  studies  in  females,  no  significant  differences  were  noted 
between CET group and reference therapy – LHRH agonist. 
In  other  studies  and  in  males,  CET  group  showed  significant  increase  in  SGOT  (14.5%),  SGPT 
(31.9%), BUN (11%), HDL-cholesterol (9.4%) and cholesterol (5.7%). 
Limited  data  provided  on  BUN  showed  no  trend  of  rising  BUN  following  cetrorelix  treatment. 
Although there was no serious safety concerns regarding liver function tests, a clear trend was noted 
for  late  increase  in  liver  enzymes  and  alkaline  phoshatase.  Their  association  with  cetrorelix  cannot 
entirely be ruled out. 
Repeated administration - There was limited data available on repeated administration, it is unknown 
whether  the  efficacy  remains  unchanged  or  whether  sensitisation  has  been  observed.  An  appropriate 
statement is included in the SPC. 
The  safety  data  of  cetrorelix  3  mg  dose  did  not  show  a  higher  number  of  adverse  events  or  more 
serious adverse events except for injection site reactions, which were not considered as serious. 
Post-marketing experience - The evaluation of 3rd Periodic Safety Update Report signals a higher risk 
of hypersensitivity reactions at the time of first injection of Cetrotide, which in some cases reached the 
severity of an anaphylactic reaction. At present, occurrence of this kind of reaction cannot be excluded 
10/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
for  subsequent  injections.  There  is  a  relationship  between  previous  allergic  predisposition  and 
hypersensitivity to Cetrotide (all reported cases had a history of allergic predisposition). Appropriate 
information have been included in the SPC and PL. 
Overall risk/benefit analysis 
In therapeutic confirmatory studies, there was no group-comparative analysis planned initially for the 
target parameter to show non-inferiority of cetrorelix by the means of significance tests and confidence 
intervals (95%) for the appropriate parameters of all studies. Subsequently, confidence intervals for the 
demonstration of non-inferiority of cetrorelix in comparison to controls with a posteriori fixed margin 
of  10%  were  used.  However,  ITT  analysis  of  the  results  of  these  studies  in  terms  of  their  cetrorelix 
arms, response rates of above 95% were achieved for the prevention of premature LH surges and for 
reaching the hCG day. The response rates were confirmed by the uncontrolled study of multiple dosing 
schedule. This may be regarded as evidence of efficacy.  
In  two  studies  with  a  sample  size  of  303  cetrorelix  patients,  a  parallel  comparison  of  cetrorelix  vs 
buserelin  and  vs  triptorelin  depot  has  been  carried  out,  the  results  show  a  very  similar  effective 
prevention  of  LH-surges  for  both  treatments.  In  these  comparative  studies,  the  results  in  terms  of 
pregnancies and deliveries are lower for cetrorelix. With respect to some secondary efficacy endpoints, 
the results show partly a tendency towards disfavouring CET in comparison to BUS and TRI. In phase 
III  studies,  centre  effects  were  observed.  Furthermore,  differences  in  prognostic  factors  at  baseline 
(history  of  pregnancies,  male  factors)  to  achieve  pregnancy  could  also  account  for  the  inferior  rate 
following treatment with cetrorelix. 
The comparison with published data, in terms of pregnancy rates, of cetrorelix and buserelin/triptorelin 
treated  patients  shows  an  exceptionally  high  pregnancy  rate  in  triptorelin  treated  patients,  and  the 
COS/ART procedure with cetrorelix results in pregnancy rates similar to those reported in literature for 
ART employing long protocols with LHRH-agonists.  
Injection site reaction and ovarian hyperstimulation syndromes were identified as main adverse events. 
The  injection  site  reaction  would  not  alter  the  risk:benefit  ratio  of  the  product  and  OHSS  is  not  an 
unexpected  consequence  of  COS.  Headache  and  nausea  were  not  considered  serious  in  nature. 
Amongst  laboratory  abnormalities,  increased  levels  of  HDL-cholesterol,  triglyceride,  cholesterol, 
BUN, and abnormal liver function test were notable. Patients with moderate to severe renal and hepatic 
impairment are contraindicated in the SPC. The number of investigated women (over 800 treated with 
cetrorelix) is considered sufficient to detect an adverse reaction, which occur at a frequency of 0.5%. 
Overall, a benefit comparable to established treatments can be assumed for cetrorelix. A LH-surge can 
be avoided by a daily dose of 0.25 mg starting from day 5-6 of hMG stimulation or a single dose of  
3 mg given on the 7th day of follicular stimulation. If an LH surge has to be prevented for more than  
4 days, additional injections of 0.25 mg daily are recommended starting 96 hours after 3 mg injection 
until the day of ovulation induction.  
5. 
Conclusion 
The  quality  of  Cetrotide  0.25  mg  and  3  mg  powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection,  as 
demonstrated in the chemical, pharmaceutical documentation, is generally acceptable. Additional data 
was requested as defined in list of follow-up measures to be provided within an agreed timeframe. 
The  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  adequately  demonstrated  that  cetrorelix  is  a  potent 
antagonist  of  LHRH  in  various  in  vitro  and  animal  models  and  binds  competitively  and  with  high 
affinity  to  pituitary  LHRH-receptors.  Findings  in  toxicity  studies  appear  to  be  related  to  the 
pharmacological  actions  of  cetrorelix  and  thus  secondary  to  suppression  of  hormone  levels.  Overall, 
the preclinical data do not raise special concerns for human safety. 
The clinical efficacy confirmed that LHRH-antagonist, cetrorelix, effectively inhibits the release of LH 
from  the  pituitary  gland.  It  has  not  been  investigated  prospectively  nor  in  a  confirmative  approach 
whether  the  efficacy  of  cetrorelix  is  equivalent  to  the  efficacy  of  LHRH-analogues.  However,  the 
efficacy of cetrorelix is comparable with published literature for LHRH-analogues in terms of achieved 
pregnancies.  In  a  direct  comparison  of  cetrorelix  versus  buserelin  and  versus  triptorelin  depot,  its 
11/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
efficacy  was  very  similar  regarding  prevention  of  LH  surges,  however,  it  was  inferior  in  terms  of 
pregnancy and delivery rates. 
The  majority  of  the  reported  adverse  events  were  injection  site  reactions,  e.g.  reddening,  itching, 
swelling,  induration.  Systemic  adverse  events  were  rare,  e.g.  nausea,  pruritus  and  headache.  The 
administration  of  cetrorelix  outside  COS  (i.e.  in  healthy  women)  results  in  symptoms  of  estrogen 
deficiency,  withdrawal  bleeding  and  hot  flushes,  whereas  these  symptoms  are  not  expected  in  COS 
patients.  Laboratory  parameters  did  not  change  in  a  relevant  manner.  There  were  no  serious  safety 
concerns with regards to liver function tests, although a clear trend was noted for late increase in liver 
enzymes  and  alkaline  phosphatase.  The  SPC  includes  appropriate  contraindications  regarding 
moderate to severe renal and hepatic impairments. 
Taking  into  consideration  the  data  provided,  the  overall  safety  issues  and  the  benefit/risk  ratio, 
cetrorelix is considered to be a safe and effective alternative for the prevention of premature ovulation 
in  patients  undergoing  a  controlled  ovarian  stimulation.  The  CPMP  considered  the  benefit  to  risk 
assessment positive and recommended the granting of a Marketing Authorisation for all strengths and 
presentations  of  this  medicinal  product.  The  product  is  authorised  for  the  indication  'Prevention  of 
premature ovulation in patients undergoing a controlled ovarian stimulation, followed by oocyte pick-
up and assisted reproductive techniques. 
Abbreviations: 
COS/ART: Controlled ovarian stimulation/Assisted reproduction technique 
LH: Luteinising hormone 
LHRH: Luteinising hormone releasing hormone 
FSH: Follicle stimulating hormone 
GnRH: Gonadotropin releasing hormone 
HCG: Human chorionic gonadotropin 
HMG: Human menopausal gonadotropin 
PROG: Progesterone 
E2: Estradiol 
OPU: Ovum pick-up 
OHSS: Ovarian hyperstimulation syndromes 
ET: Embryo transfer 
12/12 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
