EMA/163166/2014 
EMEA/H/C/00699 
EPAR summary for the public 
Champix 
varenicline 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Champix. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Champix. 
What is Champix? 
Champix is a medicine that contains the active substance varenicline. It is available as tablets 
(0.5  and 1 mg). 
What is Champix used for? 
Champix is used in adults to help them stop smoking. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Champix used? 
Treatment with Champix is more likely to succeed in smokers who are motivated to stop smoking and 
who are also receiving additional advice and support. Patients set themselves a target date for quitting 
and will usually start taking Champix one to two weeks before this date. Patients who are unwilling or 
unable to set a target date within one to two weeks could be offered the treatment first and then later 
choose their target date to fall within five weeks of starting treatment. 
Treatment with Champix lasts for 12 weeks. The tablets are swallowed whole with water. In the first 
week the patient takes one 0.5 mg tablet once a day for three days, followed by one 0.5 mg tablet 
twice a day for four days. For the remaining 11 weeks of treatment, the patient takes one 1 mg tablet 
twice a day. Reduced doses may be used in patients who do not tolerate the medicine or who have 
kidney problems. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For patients who have successfully stopped smoking after 12 weeks of treatment, doctors may choose 
to carry on treatment for another 12 weeks.  
How does Champix work? 
People who smoke become addicted to nicotine, a chemical in tobacco. Nicotine acts in the nervous 
system, where it binds to receptors and triggers the release of a chemical messenger, dopamine, 
which plays a part in the pleasure derived from smoking. 
The active substance in Champix, varenicline, can bind to some of these receptors, the α4β2 nicotinic 
acetylcholine receptors. When binding to these receptors, varenicline acts in two ways: it acts like 
nicotine (partial agonist) and this helps to relieve craving symptoms, but it also acts against nicotine 
(antagonist), by taking its place, and this helps to reduce the pleasurable effects of smoking. 
How has Champix been studied? 
In two main studies 2,052 smokers received 12-week treatment with Champix, bupropion (another 
non-nicotine medicine) or placebo (a dummy treatment). The patients’ target date for quitting was set 
at one week after starting treatment and the patients were followed up for a further 40 weeks after 
their treatment to see if they started smoking again. The main measure of effectiveness was the 
number of patients who had completely stopped smoking for four weeks (between week 9 and week 12 
of the study), confirmed by laboratory testing of the patients’ breath for signs of smoking. 
Another study compared Champix with placebo in patients who were allowed to choose their own 
target dates for quitting, which could be between one week and five weeks of starting treatment. 
What benefit has Champix shown during the studies? 
In both studies, Champix was more effective than bupropion or placebo in helping patients to stop 
smoking. The percentage of patients who had not smoked at all during weeks 9-12 was 44% with 
Champix, 30% with bupropion, and 18% with placebo. More patients remained non-smokers after 
treatment with Champix than after placebo: 40 weeks after the end of the treatment period, the 
percentage of patients who were still non-smokers was 23% among those who had taken Champix, 
and 9% among those who had taken a placebo. The percentage in the patients who had taken 
bupropion was 16%. 
In the study where patients were allowed to set their own target dates, Champix was also shown to be 
effective in helping patients to quit.  
What is the risk associated with Champix? 
The most common side-effects with Champix (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea (feeling 
sick), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), abnormal dreams, headache and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of 
the nose and throat). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Champix, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why has Champix been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that the benefits of Champix outweigh its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Champix  
EMA/163166/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Champix? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Champix is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Champix, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Champix 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Champix on 26 September 2006.  
The full EPAR for Champix can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Champix, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2014. 
Champix  
EMA/163166/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
