23 September 2021 
EMA/522543/2021 rev.11 
Shortage of Champix (varenicline) 
Film-coated tablets, 0.5 mg, 1 mg 
Indication 
Champix is used in adults to help them stop smoking. 
Reason for shortage  
Batches of Champix (varenicline) that were found to contain 
levels of N-nitroso-varenicline above the acceptable level of 
intake set for the EU are being recalled. An earlier recall of 
several batches took place in June 2021 due to the presence of 
nitrosamine impurity and led to shortages of the medicine. The 
latest recall will lead to further shortages of the medicine. Based 
on the available data, there is no immediate risk to patients 
taking this medication. More information about the risk of 
nitrosamine impurities in human medicines can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/post-
authorisation/referral-procedures/nitrosamine-impurities 
Member States affected2 
All EU Member States where Champix has been marketed (all 
Member States except Bulgaria) 
Information to healthcare 
• 
The company is recalling batches of Champix that were 
professionals  
found to contain levels of N-nitroso-varenicline above the 
acceptable level of intake set for the EU.  
•  An earlier recall of several batches took place in June 2021 
and led to shortages of the medicine. The latest recall will 
lead to further shortages of the medicine. 
•  Based on the available data, there is no immediate risk to 
patients taking this medication.  
•  Healthcare professionals should consider alternative 
treatment for their patients. Alternatives will vary from 
market to market but may include nicotine replacement 
therapy (NRT) and bupropion.  
• 
People who are currently on Champix may not be able to 
complete treatment and healthcare professionals may need 
to consider switching treatment to an alternative. 
•  Healthcare professionals should also take into account the 
need to consider gradually reducing the dose (dose 
1 This document was modified on 21 September 2021 to update in line with the latest DHPC. 
2 This information may change. For accurate information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular Member State, the 
national competent authority should be contacted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Champix (varenicline) 
Film-coated tablets, 0.5 mg, 1 mg 
tapering) at the end of treatment. This is because 
discontinuation of Champix was associated with an increase 
in irritability, urge to smoke, depression, and/or insomnia in 
up to 3% of patients (please refer to Champix product 
information).  
•  Healthcare professionals should advise patients undergoing 
treatment not to discontinue Champix without consulting 
them, and to discuss any questions or concerns with their 
healthcare provider, if needed. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) 
informing about these measures will be sent to relevant 
healthcare professionals and will also be published on the 
EMA website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Information to patients  
• 
The company is recalling batches of Champix due to the 
presence of a nitrosamine impurity. The recall affects all 
batches that were found to contain levels of N-nitroso-
varenicline above the acceptable level of intake set at EU 
level. 
•  An earlier recall of several batches took place in June 2021 
due to the presence of nitrosamine impurity and led to 
shortages of the medicine. The latest recall will lead to 
further shortages of the medicine. 
•  Based on the available data, there is no immediate risk to 
patients taking this medication. More information about the 
risk of nitrosamine impurities in human medicines can be 
found here: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-
regulatory/post-authorisation/referral-
procedures/nitrosamine-impurities   
•  Alternatives are available and your healthcare provider may 
start you on such an alternative if you are about to start 
• 
• 
smoking cessation treatment. 
If you are currently being treated with Champix, your doctor 
may switch you to a different treatment. You should not 
stop taking Champix without speaking with your healthcare 
professional. 
If you have any questions, you should speak to your 
healthcare professional. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Status 
Ongoing3 
3 Further updates will be published as needed. 
Shortage of Champix (varenicline) 
EMA/522543/2021  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
