PART  VI. SUMMARY OF THE  RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary  of risk management  plan  for Champix  1 
This  is  a summary  of the  RMP for Champix.   The  RMP details  important  risks  of Champix, 
how  these risks  can be minimised,  and how more  information  will  be obtained  about 
Champix's  risks  and uncertainties  (missing  information). 
Champix's  SmPC and its  Patient  Information  Leaflet  (PIL)  give  essential  information  to 
Healthcare  Professionals  and patients  on how Champix  should  be used. 
This  summary  of the  RMP for Champix  should  be read in  the context  of all  this  information 
including  the  assessment  report of  the evaluation  and its  plain-language  summary,  all  which 
is  part of the European  Public  Assessment  Report  (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or changes  to the  current  ones will  be included  in  updates  of 
Champix's  RMP. 
I. The Medicine and  What  It Is Used For 
Champix  is authorised  for  treatment  of  smoking  cessation  in  adults  (see SmPC for the  full 
indication).   It contains  varenicline  tartrate  as the  active  substance  and it  is  given  by oral 
route  of administration. 
Further  information  about the  evaluation  of Champix’s  benefits  can be found  in  Champix’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s  webpage:  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/champix 
II. Risks Associated With  the Medicine and  Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise  the Risks 
Important  risks  of  Champix,  together  with  measures  to minimise  such  risks  and the proposed 
studies  for  learning  more about  Champix's  risks,  are outlined  below. 
Measures  to minimise  the  risks  identified  for medicinal  products  can  be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as warnings,  precautions,  and advice  on correct use,  in  the  PIL 
and SmPC addressed to patients  and  Healthcare  Professionals 
• 
Important  advice  on the medicine’s  packaging; 
•  The  authorised  pack size  — the amount  of  medicine  in  a pack is  chosen  so to ensure  that 
the  medicine  is  used correctly; 
1 Changes are considered important  if they relate to the following:  new safety concerns or important 
changes/removal to a known safety concerns, major  changes to the pharmacovigilance plan (e.g. addition of new 
studies or completion of ongoing studies), any ‘additional  risk minimisation  measure’ which is added or 
removed, routine risk  minimisation  activities recommending  specific clinical  measures to address the risk. 
Page 1 
 
                                                 
 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  — the way  a medicine  is supplied  to the  public  (e.g. with  or 
without  prescription)  can help  to minimise  its  risks. 
Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine risk minimisation measures.   
In addition  to these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR assessment  so that  immediate  action  can  be taken as 
necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use of Champix  not  yet available  or limited, 
it  is  listed  under  ‘missing  information’  below. 
II.A. List of Important  Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  Champix  are risks  that  need special  risk  management  activities  to further 
investigate  or minimise  the  risk,  so that  the  medicinal  product  can be safely  taken.  Important 
risks  can be regarded  as identified  or potential.  Identified  risks  are concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient  proof  of a link  with  the use  of Champix.  Potential  risks  are concerns  for  which  an 
association  with  the use of  this  medicine  is possible  based on available  data, but this 
association  has not  been established  yet  and needs further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers  to information  on the  safety  of  the medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and 
needs to be collected  (e.g. on the  long-term  use of  the medicine). 
Table 1.  List of important  risks and  missing  information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
None 
Missing information 
•  Use in Patients with CVD 
•  Use in Pregnancy 
CVD  = Cardiovascular Disease  
II.B. Summary  of Important  Risks and Missing Information 
Table 2.  Missing Information:  Use in  Patients with  CVD 
Risk  minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: SmPC  Section 4.4  (Special  warnings and 
precautions for use) and Section 5.1  (Pharmacodynamic  properties); PIL  Section 
2 
Additional risk  minimisation  measures: none 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.  Missing Information:  Use in  Pregnancy 
Risk  minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: SmPC  Section 4.6  (Fertility,  pregnancy and 
lactation) and Section 5.1  (Pharmacodynamic  properties); PIL  Section 2 
Additional risk  minimisation  measures: none 
II.C. Post-Authorisation  Development Plan 
Studies  which  are conditions  of the MA. 
II.C.1. Studies which  are Conditions  of the Marketing Authorisation 
There  are no studies  which  are conditions  of the  marketing  authorisation  or specific 
obligation  of Champix. 
II.C.2. Other  Studies in Post-Authorisation  Development Plan 
There  are no studies  required  for Champix. 
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
