EMA/241528/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004061 
EPAR summary for the public 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant1 
chenodeoxycholic acid 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Chenodeoxycholic acid 
Leadiant. It explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU 
and its conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Chenodeoxycholic 
acid Leadiant. 
For practical information about using Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant, patients should read the 
package leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant and what is it used for? 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant is a medicine that contains the active substance chenodeoxycholic 
acid. This is a ‘primary bile acid’, which is a main component of bile (a fluid produced by the liver that 
helps to digest fats).  
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant is used to treat adults and children from one month of age with 
cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. These patients cannot produce enough of the primary bile acid 
chenodeoxycholic acid due to genetic abnormalities that result in a lack of the liver enzyme sterol 27 
hydroxylase. When primary bile acids are lacking, the body produces abnormal bile acids and other 
substances instead which accumulate throughout the body, causing damage.  
1 Previously known as Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                       
Because the number of patients with this condition is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 16 December 2014. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ containing the same active substance. The reference medicine for Chenodeoxycholic acid 
Leadiant is Xenbilox. However, Xenbilox differs from Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant in that it is 
authorised for a different use (to dissolve cholesterol gallstones). 
How is Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant used? 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be 
started and supervised by a doctor experienced in treating cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis or other 
diseases of primary bile acid production. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant is available as capsules (250 mg) which are taken 3 times a day at 
approximately the same time every day. The daily dose is chosen and adjusted during treatment for 
each patient depending on the patient’s age, liver function and levels of bile acids in their blood and 
urine. For small children and children who cannot swallow capsules, the contents of the capsules can 
be mixed with sodium bicarbonate solution 8.4% to make a liquid. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant work? 
Chenodeoxycholic acid is one of the main primary bile acids produced by the liver. The 
chenodeoxycholic acid contained in this medicine replaces the patient’s missing chenodeoxycholic acid. 
This helps to reduce the production of abnormal substances and contributes to the normal activity of 
bile in the digestive system, thereby relieving the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant have been shown in 
studies? 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant has been investigated in a study which looked at the records of 35 
patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis who received chenodeoxycholic acid for around 9 years. 
Among 23 patients for whom data on blood levels of bile acids were available, all had reductions in 
their levels (average reduction of 56–69 µmol/l). Among 14 patients for whom data on urine levels of 
bile acids were available, 79% (11 out of 14) had reduced levels at their most recent test. Most 
patients also had improvements in symptoms of the disease: all reported an improvement in 
diarrhoea, 89% of patients showed an improvement in their mental ability, 60% of patients showed 
improvement in mobility, and 85% and 77% of patients showed psychiatric improvement based on two 
different scores.  
What are the risks associated with Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant? 
The side effects seen with Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant are constipation and abnormal liver test 
values; however their frequency could not be reliably estimated from the available limited data. They 
were mild or moderate in severity and did not last.  
For the list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant 
EMA/241528/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
Why is Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant approved? 
Chenodeoxycholic acid has been used to treat cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis for about 40 years, 
although it was not licensed for this use. However, due to the rarity of the disease, there are still 
limited data available on the use of the medicine. Nevertheless, studies have shown that the medicine 
benefits patients and has no significant side effects. The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) therefore decided that Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because 
it has not been possible to obtain complete information about Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant due to 
the rarity of the disease. Every year, the European Medicines Agency will review any new information 
that becomes available and this summary will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant? 
Since Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant has been approved under exceptional circumstances, the 
company that markets this medicine will set up a registry to monitor the benefits and safety of the 
medicine. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau on 10 April 2017. The name of the product was changed to 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant on 12 May 2017. 
The full EPAR for Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant, read the package leaflet (also part 
of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Chenodeoxycholic acid 
Leadiant can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare 
disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid Leadiant 
EMA/241528/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
