28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/138172/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zabdeno 
Ebola vaccine (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP [recombinant])  
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zabdeno, 
intended for prophylaxis against Zaire ebolavirus disease (EVD). Zabdeno was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V. 
Zabdeno will be available as a suspension for injection. The active substance of Zabdeno consists of a 
monovalent, recombinant, replication-incompetent Ad26-vectored vaccine that encodes the full-length 
glycoprotein (GP) of the Zaire ebolavirus. Zabdeno is a viral vaccine (ATC code: J07BX02). It is given 
with the vaccine Mvabea as a 2-dose vaccination regime, and provides active immunisation for prevention 
of Zaire ebolavirus disease by inducing an immune response that protects against the disease. 
The benefits with Zabdeno are its ability to contribute to the generation of a protective response against 
the virus that causes Zaire ebolavirus disease.  The most common side effects in adults are injection-site 
reactions (pain, warmth and swelling), fatigue, headache, myalgia, arthralgia and chills. The most 
common side effects in children are injection-site pain, fatigue, decreased activity, decreased appetite 
and irritability.  
The full indication is:  
Zabdeno, as part of the Zabdeno, Mvabea vaccine regimen, is indicated for active immunisation 
for prevention of disease caused by Ebola virus (Zaire ebolavirus species) in individuals ≥ 1 year 
of age. The use of the vaccine regimen should be in accordance with official recommendations.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
