15 December 2016  
EMA/CHMP/843822/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Olumiant 
baricitinib 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Olumiant, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
Olumiant will be available as 2 mg and 4 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Olumiant is 
baricitinib, a selective and reversible inhibitor of Janus kinase (JAK) 1 and 2 (ATC code: L04AA37). Janus 
kinases are enzymes that transduce intracellular signals from cell surface receptors for a number of 
cytokines and growth factors involved in haematopoiesis, inflammation and immune function.  
Olumiant reduces the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common side effects are increased LDL 
cholesterol, upper respiratory tract infections and nausea. 
The full indication is: “Olumiant is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Olumiant may be used as monotherapy or in combination with 
methotrexate (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for available data on different combinations).” 
It is proposed that Olumiant be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
