18 March 2010 
Doc. Ref.: EMA/148993/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Olanzapine Apotex 
olanzapine 
On 18 March 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Olanzapine 
Apotex 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg and 10 mg, film-coated tablets and Olanzapine Apotex 5 mg, 10 mg, 
15 mg and 20 mg orodispersible tablets, intended for the treatment of schizophrenia. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Apotex Europe BV.  
The active substance of Olanzapine Apotex is olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic (N05AH03). 
Olanzapine Apotex is a generic of Zyprexa which has been authorised in the EU since 27 September 
1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Olanzapine Apotex, and its bioequivalence 
with Zyprexa. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Olanzapine is 
effective in maintaining the clinical improvement during continuation therapy in patients who have 
shown an initial treatment response. Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
manic episode. In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is 
indicated for the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and will 
be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit to risk 
balance for Olanzapine Apotex, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
