sclerosis.  
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Laboratorios Lesvi S.L. 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/102451/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm 
dimethyl fumarate 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dimethyl 
fumarate Neuraxpharm, intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
January 2014. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm 
and its bioequivalence to the reference product Tecfidera. A question and answer document on generic 
The active substance of Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm is dimethyl fumarate, an immunomodulating 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
The treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm should be initiated under the supervision of a 
Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing 
physician experienced in the treatment of the disease. 
derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) transcriptional pathway. 
granted by the European Commission. 
Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm is a generic of Tecfidera, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 
agent (ATC code: L04AX07). It primarily acts by triggering the activation of the nuclear factor (erythroid-
Dimethyl fumarate Neuraxpharm will be available as 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
