31 May 2018 
EMA/CHMP/288734/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tegsedi 
inotersen 
On 31 May 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tegsedi, 
intended for the treatment of hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis. Tegsedi, which was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 26 March 2014, was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment 
programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is IONIS USA Ltd. 
Tegsedi will be available as a 284-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Tegsedi is inotersen, 
an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of both mutant and wild-type human transthyretin (TTR). The TTR 
gene is mutated in hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis, resulting in ubiquitous accumulation of TTR 
protein fragments as amyloid deposits in multiple organs. Inotersen selectively binds to the TTR 
messenger RNA (mRNA) and causes its degradation. This prevents the synthesis of TTR protein in the 
liver, resulting in significant reductions in the levels of TTR in the circulation and so reducing amyloid 
deposition. 
Tegsedi has shown clinically relevant effects on both the neurological components of the disease and on 
quality of life. The most important side effects are injection site reactions, thrombocytopenia and 
glomerulonephritis. 
The full indication is: "Treatment of stage 1 or stage 2 polyneuropathy in adult patients with hereditary 
transthyretin amyloidosis (hATTR)” 
It is proposed that Tegsedi be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of hereditary 
transthyretin amyloidosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
