26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/184075/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nuceiva 
botulinum toxin type A 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nuceiva, intended for 
temporary improvement of vertical lines between the eyebrows, when the severity of the above facial lines 
has an important psychological impact on the person. The applicant for this medicinal product is Evolus 
Pharma Limited. 
Nuceiva will be available as a powder for solution for injection (100 U). The active substance of Nuceiva is 
botulinum toxin type A, which is produced by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum and blocks the release of 
acetylcholine in the neuromuscular synapses and prevents contraction of muscle cells (ATC code: 
M03AX01). 
The benefits with Nuceiva are its ability to temporally reduce the severity of the glabellar lines following local 
muscular paralysis. The most common side effects are injection site reactions, eyelid ptosis and headache. 
The full indication is: “Nuceiva is indicated for the temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to 
severe vertical lines between the eyebrows seen at maximum frown (glabellar lines), when the severity of 
the above facial lines has an important psychological impact in adults below 65 years of age.” 
It is proposed that Nuceiva be administered only by physicians experienced in the treatment of glabellar 
lines and the use of required equipment. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
