26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/208938/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Doptelet 
avatrombopag 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Doptelet, intended for 
the treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in adult patients with chronic liver disease who are scheduled to 
undergo an invasive procedure. The applicant for this medicinal product is Dova Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Limited. 
Doptelet will be available as 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Doptelet is avatrombopag, 
a thrombopoietin receptor agonist (ATC code: B02BX) that stimulates proliferation and differentiation of 
megakaryocytes from bone marrow progenitor cells, resulting in increased production of platelets. 
The benefits with Doptelet are its ability to reduce the need for platelet transfusions before a scheduled 
invasive procedure or for rescue therapy for bleeding during the 7 days after the procedure. The most 
common side effect is fatigue. 
The full indication is: “Doptelet is indicated for the treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in adult patients 
with chronic liver disease who are scheduled to undergo an invasive procedure”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
