26 June 2015 
EMA/CHMP/431635/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Duloxetine Zentiva 
duloxetine 
On 25 June 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Duloxetine 
Zentiva, intended for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
and generalised anxiety disorder. The applicant for this medicinal product is Zentiva, k.s. 
Duloxetine Zentiva will be available as 30 mg and 60 mg gastro-resistant capsules. The active 
substance of Duloxetine Zentiva is duloxetine, a combined serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) 
reuptake inhibitor (ATC code: N06AX21). It weakly inhibits dopamine reuptake with no significant 
affinity for histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic and adrenergic receptors. 
Duloxetine Zentiva is a generic of Cymbalta, which has been authorised in the EU since 17 December 
2004. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Duloxetine Zentiva, and its bioequivalence 
to the reference product. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
The full indication is: 
“Treatment of major depressive disorder. Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Treatment 
of generalised anxiety disorder. Duloxetine Zentiva is indicated in adults”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
