25 May 2023 
EMA/CHMP/235199/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pylclari 
piflufolastat (18F) 
On 25 May 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pylclari, intended for the 
diagnosis of prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Curium Pet France. 
Pylclari will be available as a 1000 MBq/mL and 1500 MBq/mL solutions for injection. The active substance 
of Pylclari is piflufolastat (18F), a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for tumour detection (ATC code: V09IX16). 
Piflufolastat is a fluorine-18 labeled small-molecule prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) inhibitor 
that enables positron emission tomography. It binds to cells expressing PSMA, including malignant prostate 
cancer cells which overexpress PSMA. 
The benefit of Pylclari is its potential to diagnose prostate cancer during primary staging of patients at high 
risk and in the staging of patients with a suspected recurrence based on increasing serum prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) as supported by three prospective, open-label clinical studies. The most common side effects 
are headache and dysgeusia. 
The full indication is: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Pylclari is indicated for the detection of prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positive 
lesions with positron emission tomography (PET) in adults with prostate cancer (PCa) in the 
following clinical settings:  
• 
• 
Primary staging of patients with high-risk PCa prior to initial curative therapy,  
To localize recurrence of PCa in patients with a suspected recurrence based on increasing 
serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels after primary treatment with curative intent. 
Pylclari should be used in designated nuclear medicine facilities only and should only be handled by 
authorised personnel. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Pylclari  
EMA/CHMP/235199/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
