20 May 2010 
EMA/CHMP/291554/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Leflunomide medac 
leflunomide 
On 20 May 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Leflunomide medac, 10 mg and 20 mg, film-coated tablets, intended for the treatment of adult 
patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is medac, Gesellschaft für klinische Spezialpräparate mbH. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
The active substance of Leflunomide medac is leflunomide, a selective immunosuppressive agent (ATC 
code: L04AA13). Leflunomide is a disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agent with antiproliferative 
properties.  
Leflunomide medac is a generic of Arava, which has been authorised in the EU since 2 September 
1999. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Leflunomide medac, and its 
bioequivalence with the reference product Arava. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Leflunomide medac will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Leflunomide is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis as a "disease-modifying antirheumatic drug" (DMARD). 
Recent or concurrent treatment with hepatotoxic or haematotoxic DMARDs (e.g. methotrexate) may 
result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions; therefore, the initiation of 
leflunomidetreatment has to be carefully considered regarding these benefit/risk aspects. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Moreover, switching from leflunomide to another DMARD without following the washout procedure (see 
section 4.4) may also increase the risk of serious adverse reactions even for a long time after the 
switching.” 
The treatment with Leflunomide medac should be initiated and supervised by specialists experienced in 
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Leflunomide medac and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Leflunomide medac  
EMA/CHMP/291554/2010 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
