19 May 2022 
EMA/CHMP/264223/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zokinvy 
lonafarnib 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Zokinvy3, intended for the treatment of patients with progeroid syndromes.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is EigerBio Europe Limited. 
Zokinvy will be available as 50 mg and 75 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Zokinvy is 
lonafarnib, an alimentary tract and metabolism product (ATC code: A16AX20), which prevents the 
formation of aberrant progerin and progerin-like proteins in cells, thereby promoting maintenance of cell 
integrity and function. 
The benefit of Zokinvy is that it increases patient lifespan in a historical comparison with untreated 
patients, as observed in a pooled analysis of 62 patients from two single-arm cohorts. The most common 
side effects are gastrointestinal disturbances such as vomiting and diarrhoea, especially during the first 4 
months of treatment, and increased liver enzymes. 
The full indication is: 
Zokinvy is indicated for the treatment of patients 12 months of age and older with a genetically 
confirmed diagnosis of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome or a processing-deficient progeroid 
laminopathy associated with either a heterozygous LMNA mutation with progerin-like protein 
accumulation or a homozygous or compound heterozygous ZMPSTE24 mutation. 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with progeroid 
syndromes or patients with rare genetic metabolic syndromes. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Zokinvy  
EMA/CHMP/264223/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
