21 April 2017  
EMA/243800/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kevzara 
sarilumab 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kevzara, intended for the 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-Aventis groupe. 
Kevzara will be available as a solution for subcutaneous injection in pre-filled syringes and pre-filled pens. 
The active substance of Kevzara is sarilumab, an interleukin inhibitor (ATC code: L04AC14). Sarilumab is a 
human monoclonal antibody (IgG1 subtype) that specifically binds to IL-6 receptors (IL-6Rα), and inhibits 
IL-6-mediated signalling. 
The benefits with Kevzara are its ability to reduce the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and to 
improve physical function. Kevzara has been shown to inhibit the progression of joint damage in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis. The most common side effects are neutropenia, increased ALT, injection site 
erythema, upper respiratory-tract infections, and urinary tract infections. 
The full indication is:  
"Kevzara in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely 
active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant 
to one or more disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Kevzara can be given as monotherapy in 
case of intolerance to MTX or when treatment with MTX is inappropriate (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Kevzara be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
