23 July 2020 
EMA/CHMP/374568/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Calquence 
acalabrutinib 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Calquence,2 
intended for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Calquence will be available as 100 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Calquence is acalabrutinib, 
a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE51) which acts by inhibiting the Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), 
thus preventing signalling for B-cell survival and proliferation and resulting in blocking cellular adhesion, 
trafficking, and chemotaxis. 
The benefits with Calquence are its ability to prolong progression-free survival when used on its own or in 
combination with obinutuzumab. The most common side effects are respiratory tract infections, headache 
bruising, contusion, diarrhoea, nausea, rash, musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, decreased haemoglobin and 
decreased platelets. 
The full indication is: 
Calquence as monotherapy or in combination with obinutuzumab is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL).  
Calquence as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy. 
It is proposed that Calquence be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
