22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/771662/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Soliris  
eculizumab  
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Soliris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Alexion 
Europe SAS. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS)". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Soliris will be as follows2: 
Soliris (eculizumab) is indicated for the treatment of patients with: 
“- 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). 
Evidence of clinical benefit of Soliris in the treatment of patients with PNH is limited to patients 
with history of transfusions. 
- 
Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) (see section 5.1) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
