25 July 2019 
EMA/CHMP/417900/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Epidyolex 
cannabidiol 
On 25 July 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Epidyolex2, intended for 
the treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) or Dravet syndrome (DS). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is GW Pharma (International) B.V. 
Epidyolex will be available as 100 mg/ml oral solution. The active substance of Epidyolex is cannabidiol, an 
antiepileptic (ATC code: N03AX). The exact mechanism of action is not fully known. Epidyolex reduces the 
hyperactivity of neurones through different actions: modulation of intracellular calcium via G 
protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV-1) channels, as well 
as modulation of adenosine-mediated signalling through inhibition of adenosine cellular uptake via the 
equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (ENT-1). 
The benefits with Epidyolex are its ability to help manage seizures associated with LGS and DS. The most 
common side effects are somnolence, decreased appetite, diarrhoea, pyrexia, fatigue and vomiting. 
The full indication is: “Epidyolex is indicated for use as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) or Dravet syndrome (DS), in conjunction with clobazam, for patients 2 
years of age and older”. It is proposed that Epidyolex should be initiated and supervised by physicians with 
experience in the treatment of epilepsy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
