27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/339899/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tafinlar 
dabrafenib 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tafinlar, 50 
and 75 mg capsules, hard, intended for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic 
melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation. The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline 
Trading Services Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Tafinlar is dabrafenib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE23) that inhibits BRAF 
kinases with activating codon 600 mutations.  
The benefits with Tafinlar are its ability to delay the progression of disease and to improve the 
response rate. The most common side effects are hyperkeratosis, headache, pyrexia, arthralgia, 
fatigue, nausea, papilloma, alopecia, rash and vomiting. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tafinlar will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Dabrafenib is indicated in monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients 
with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation (see section 5.1). It is proposed 
that Tafinlar be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the use of anticancer 
medicinal products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Tafinlar and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
