27 June 2013 
EMA/371571/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Vectibix 
panitumumab 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Vectibix. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
"Vectibix is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with wild-type RAS metastatic colorectal 
cancer (mCRC): 
• 
• 
• 
in first-line in combination with FOLFOX.  
in second-line in combination with FOLFIRI for patients who have received first-line 
fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy (excluding irinotecan).   
as monotherapy after failure of fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-containing 
chemotherapy regimens". 
The CHMP also adopted a change to a contraindication as follows: 
"The combination of Vectibix with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy is contraindicated for patients 
with mutant RAS mCRC or for whom RAS mCRC status is unknown". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
