13 October 2016  
EMA/603784/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
SomaKit TOC 
edotreotide 
On 13 October 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product SomaKit TOC, 
intended for use in Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging in adult patients with gastro-
enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (GEP-NET). SomaKit TOC was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 19 March 2015. The applicant for this medicinal product is Advanced Accelerator 
Applications. 
SomaKit TOC will be available as a 40 micrograms kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation. The active 
substance of SomaKit TOC is edotreotide. Edotreotide is for radiolabelling with gallium (68Ga) chloride 
solution and binds with high affinity to somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) in tumours that overexpress 
SSTRs (ATC code: V09IX09).  
The benefits with SomaKit TOC are its ability to detect tumours that overexpress SSTRs in patients with 
GEP-NETs with high sensitivity and specificity. No adverse reactions related to gallium (68Ga) edotreotide 
have been reported; however, exposure to ionising radiation is a potential risk, as for other 
radiopharmaceuticals. 
The full indication is:  
"This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. After radiolabelling with gallium (68Ga) chloride 
solution, the solution of gallium (68Ga) edotreotide obtained is indicated for Positron Emission 
Tomography (PET) imaging of somatostatin receptor overexpression in adult patients with confirmed or 
suspected well-differentiated gastro-enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (GEP-NET) for localizing 
primary tumours and their metastases". It is proposed that SomaKit TOC be administrated by trained 
healthcare professionals with technical expertise in using and handling nuclear medicine diagnostic agents 
and only in a designated nuclear medicine facility. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
granted by the European Commission. 
SomaKit TOC  
EMA/603784/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
