25 February 2016 
EMA/156121/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Telzir 
fosamprenavir 
On 25 February 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Telzir. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is ViiV Healthcare UK Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
"Co-administration of paritaprevir and fosamprenavir/ritonavir is contraindicated due to the 
expected increase of paritaprevir exposure and the lack of clinical data assessing the magnitude 
of this increase (see section 4.5)." 
For information, the full contraindications for Telzir will be as follows: 
"Hypersensitivity to fosamprenavir, amprenavir, or ritonavir, or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1. 
Telzir must not be administered concurrently with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic 
windows that are substrates of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), e.g. alfuzosin, amiodarone, 
astemizole, bepridil, cisapride, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, 
terfenadine, oral midazolam (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, see section 
4.5), oral triazolam, sildenafil used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (for use 
of sildenafil in patients with erectile dysfunction, see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Co-administration of paritaprevir and fosamprenavir/ritonavir is contraindicated due to the 
expected increase of paritaprevir exposure and the lack of clinical data assessing the magnitude 
of this increase (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of Telzir with simvastatin or lovastatin is contraindicated because of increased 
plasma concentrations of lovastatin and simvastatin which can increase the risk of myopathy, 
including rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.5). 
Telzir with ritonavir must not be co-administered with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic 
windows that are highly dependent on CYP2D6 metabolism, e.g. flecainide and propafenone (see 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
section 4.5). 
Combination of rifampicin with Telzir with concomitant low-dose ritonavir is contraindicated (see 
section 4.5). 
Herbal preparations containing St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) must not be used while 
taking Telzir due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations and reduced clinical effects of 
amprenavir (see section 4.5)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Telzir  
EMA/156121/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
