26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/482444/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Onpattro 
patisiran 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Onpattro, 
intended for the treatment of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis. Onpattro, which was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 15 April 2011, was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated 
assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Alnylam Netherlands B.V. 
Onpattro will be available as a 2 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Onpattro is patisiran, a double-stranded small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) that specifically targets 
all mutant and wild-type transthyretin (TTR). The TTR gene is mutated in hereditary transthyretin 
amyloidosis, resulting in ubiquitous accumulation of TTR protein fragments as amyloid deposits in 
multiple organs. Patisiran causes the catalytic degradation of TTR messenger RNA (mRNA) in the liver, 
resulting in significant reductions of serum TTR protein and so reducing amyloid deposition. 
Onpattro has shown clinically relevant effects on both the neurological components of the disease and on 
quality of life, as well as a positive impact on cardiac parameters. The most common side effects are 
peripheral oedema and infusion-related reactions. 
The full indication is: "Onpattro is indicated for the treatment of hereditary transthyretin-mediated 
amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) in adult patients with stage 1 or stage 2 polyneuropathy". It is proposed 
that Onpattro be prescribed by physicians knowledgeable in the management of amyloidosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
