17 October 2019 
EMA/557804/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Spravato 
esketamine 
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Spravato, intended for combination treatment in adults with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Spravato will be available as a 28 mg nasal spray solution. The active substance of Spravato is esketamine, 
a Psychoanaleptic, Other antidepressants (ATC code: N06AX27). The antidepressant effect of esketamine is 
mediated via its antagonist activity on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) which produces a transient 
increase in glutamate release. 
The benefits with Spravato are its ability to reduce a broad range of depressive symptoms in patients with a 
moderate to severe depressive episode that has not responded to at least two different treatments with 
antidepressants. The most common side effect are dizziness, nausea, dissociation, headache, somnolence 
and vertigo. 
The full indication is: “Spravato, in combination with a SSRI or SNRI, is indicated for adults with 
treatment-resistant major depressive disorder, who have not responded to at least two different treatments 
with antidepressants in the current moderate to severe depressive episode”. Treatment with Spravato 
should be initiated by psychiatrists to ensure a correct diagnosis of treatment-resistant major depressive 
disorder. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
