21 May 2015  
EMA/CHMP/289526/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Omidria 
phenylephrine / ketorolac  
On 21 May 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Omidria, 
intended for maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis, prevention of intraoperative miosis and reduction 
of acute postoperative ocular pain in intraocular lens replacement surgery. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Omeros London Limited. 
Omidria will be available as a concentrate for solution for intraocular irrigation (12.37 mg/ml + 4.24 
mg/ml). The active substances of Omidria are phenylephrine (ATC code: not yet assigned) and ketorolac 
(ATC code: not yet assigned). Phenylephrine is a α1-adrenergic receptor agonist and acts by contracting 
the radial muscle of the iris, dilating the pupil and preventing miosis during surgery. Ketorolac is a non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that inhibits the enzymes cyclooxygenase COX1 and COX2 and 
so reduces production of prostaglandins, substances that are involved in inflammation and pain. 
The benefits with Omidria are its ability to maintain mydriasis during lens replacement eye surgery and 
reduce postoperative pain. The most common side effects are eye pain and anterior chamber 
inflammation. 
The full indication is: "Omidria is indicated in adults for maintenance of intraoperative mydriasis, 
prevention of intraoperative miosis and reduction of acute postoperative ocular pain in intraocular lens 
replacement surgery. “ 
It is proposed that Omidria is administered in a controlled surgical setting by a qualified ophthalmological 
surgeon experienced in intraocular lens replacement surgery.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
