24 March 2022 
EMA/CHMP/170076/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cabometyx 
cabozantinib 
On 24 March 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cabometyx. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Ipsen Pharma. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC).  
The full indications for Cabometyx will therefore be as follows:2 
Cabometyx is indicated for the treatment of 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
CABOMETYX is indicated as monotherapy for advanced renal cell carcinoma 
- as first-line treatment of adult patients with intermediate or poor risk (see section 5.1), 
- in adults following prior vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy (see section 
5.1). 
CABOMETYX, in combination with nivolumab, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
CABOMETYX is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 
adults who have previously been treated with sorafenib. 
Differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) 
CABOMETYX is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC), refractory or not 
eligible to radioactive iodine (RAI) who have progressed during or after prior systemic 
therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Cabometyx  
EMA/CHMP/170076/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
