24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/627232/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Gilenya 
fingolimod 
On 24 September, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Gilenya. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the existing indication to reflect a modification in the criteria for disease 
activity that need to be fulfilled in order to enable a switch from a first line disease modifying therapy to 
Gilenya. The amended indication reads as follows: 
“Gilenya is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following adult patient groups: 
- 
Patients with highly active disease activity despite a full and adequate course of treatment with 
at least one disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout periods see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course 
(normally at least one year of treatment) of at least one disease modifying therapy. Patients should 
have had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 T2-
hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” 
could also be defined as a patient with an unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe 
relapses, as compared to the previous year.” 
For information, the full indication for Gilenya will be as follows: 
“Gilenya is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following adult patient groups: 
- 
or 
- 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least one 
disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout periods see sections 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Gilenya  
EMA/CHMP/627232/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
