28 February 2019 
EMA/CHMP/34031/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lorviqua 
lorlatinib 
On 28 February 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lorviqua, intended for the treatment of patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Lorviqua will be available as 25 mg and 100 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Lorviqua is 
lorlatinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE36) that inhibits autophosphorylation of ALK, ALK-mediated 
phosphorylation of downstream signalling proteins and proliferation of ALK-dependent cancer cells. 
Treatment with Lorviqua was shown to result in clinically relevant response rates and durations of response 
in patients previously treated with other ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The most common side effects are 
hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, oedema, peripheral neuropathy, cognitive effects, fatigue, 
weight increased and mood effects. 
The full indication is:  
“Lorlatinib as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
(ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose disease has progressed after: 
 
 
alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy; or 
crizotinib and at least one other ALK TKI.” 
It is proposed that Lorviqua be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
