19 November 2015  
EMA/CHMP/693863/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Benepali 
etanercept 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Benepali, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, axial spondyloarthritis and plaque 
psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Samsung Bioepis UK Limited. 
Benepali will be available as a 50 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Benepali is 
etanercept, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AB01). Etanercept is a fusion protein, which 
preferentially binds to TNF-α and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF-α. 
Benepali is a biological medicinal product that is similar to the reference product Enbrel (etanercept), 
which was authorised in the EU on 3 February 2000. Studies have shown that Benepali has a comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy profile to Enbrel (etanercept). 
The full indications are: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Benepali in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate.  
Benepali can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Benepali is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Benepali, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of 
joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Etanercept has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA)”. 
It is proposed that treatment with Benepali should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis or plaque psoriasis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Benepali  
EMA/CHMP/693863/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
