18 October 2012 
EMA/CHMP/676157/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xarelto 
rivaroxaban 
On 18 October 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Xarelto 15 and 20 mg strengths. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product 
is Bayer Pharma AG. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows:  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
The CHMP adopted new contraindications (for 15 mg and 20 mg) as follows: 
Lesion or condition at significant risk of major bleeding such as current or recent gastrointestinal 
ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent brain or spinal injury, 
recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, known or suspected 
oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major intraspinal or 
intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulant agent e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, apixaban, dabigatran, etc.) except under the circumstances of switching 
therapy to or from rivaroxaban (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
a patent central venous or arterial catheter. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
For information, the full indication(s) for Xarelto 15mg and 20mg will be as follows2: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
For information, the full contraindications for Xarelto 15mg and 20mg will be as follows3: 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Clinically significant active bleeding. 
Lesion or condition at significant risk of major bleeding such as current or recent 
gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial 
haemorrhage, known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, 
vascular aneurysms or major intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulant agent e.g. unfractionated heparin 
(UFH), low molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives 
(fondaparinux, etc.), oral anticoagulants (warfarin, apixaban, dabigatran, etc.) except under 
the circumstances of switching therapy to or from rivaroxaban (see section 4.2) or when 
UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain a patent central venous or arterial catheter. 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast feeding (see section 4.6). 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
Xarelto 
EMA/CHMP/676157/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
 
