15 March 2012 
EMA/CHMP/134774/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Docetaxel Accord 
docetaxel 
On 15 March 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Docetaxel 
Accord, 20mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion, intended for the treatment of breast cancer, 
non-small cell lung cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma and head and neck cancer.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Docetaxel Accord is docetaxel, an antineoplastic medicinal product (L01CD 02) 
that disrupts intracellular structures necessary for the replication and survival of cells (cytotoxic 
activity). 
Docetaxel Accord is a generic of Taxotere, which has been authorised in the EU since  
27 November 1995. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Docetaxel Accord. A 
bioequivalence study versus the reference product Taxotere was not required. A question and answer 
document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Docetaxel Accord will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation. 
The approved indications are:  
Breast cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
  operable node-positive breast cancer 
  operable node-negative breast cancer 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer (see section 5.1). 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
Docetaxel Accord monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Docetaxel Accord is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition. 
Prostate cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal 
junction, who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction 
treatment of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
It is proposed that Docetaxel Accord should only be administered under the supervision of a physician 
qualified in the use of anticancer chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Docetaxel Accord and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Docetaxel Accord 
EMA/CHMP/134774/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
