20 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/812168/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Repaglinide Accord 
Repaglinide 
On 20 October 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Repaglinide Accord 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 2 mg tablets intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. 
The active substance of Repaglinide Accord is Repaglinide, a short-acting oral secretagogue that is a 
carbamoylmethyl benzoid acid derivative (ATC code: A10BX02). Repaglinide lowers the blood glucose 
levels acutely by stimulating the release of insulin from the pancreas, an effect dependent upon 
functioning β-cells in the pancreatic islets.  
Repaglinide Accord is a generic of NovoNorm, which has been authorised in the EU since 17 August 
1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Repaglinide Accord, and its bioequivalence 
with Prandin. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “Repaglinide is indicated in patients with type 2 diabetes (Non 
Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (NIDDM)) whose hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled 
satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction and exercise. Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct to diet 
and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit risk balance 
for Repaglinide Accord, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
  
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in  writing  of  their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
