15 September 2016 
EMA/CHMP/542534/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau 
chenodeoxycholic acid 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances for the 
medicinal product Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau, intended for the treatment of cerebrotendinous 
xanthomatosis. Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 16 
December 2014. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sigma-tau Arzneimittel GmbH. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau will be available as 250 mg hard capsules. The active substance of 
Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau is chenodeoxycholic acid, a bile acid preparation (ATC code: A05AA01) 
that works as replacement therapy to restore the feedback inhibition lost due to the deficiency of 
endogenous chenodeoxycholic acid. 
The benefits with Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau are its ability to reduce serum levels of cholestanol 
and improve symptoms of the disease. The most common side effects are hepatic adverse events. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau is a hybrid medicine2 of Xenbilox which has been authorised in the EU 
since 1999. Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau contains the same active substance as Xenbilox, but it is 
authorised for a different indication.  
The full indication is: "Treatment of inborn errors of primary bile acid synthesis due to sterol 27 
hydroxylase deficiency (presenting as cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis) in infants, children and 
adolescents aged 1 month to 18 years and adults". It is proposed that Chenodeoxycholic acid sigma-tau 
be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis or inborn 
errors of primary bile acid synthesis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
