15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/722012/2022 Corr.1  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion2 (initial authorisation) 
Zynlonta 
loncastuximab tesirine 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional3 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Zynlonta4, intended for the treatment of adult patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and 
high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL). The applicant for this medicinal product is ADC Therapeutics (NL) 
B.V. 
Zynlonta will be available as a 10 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Zynlonta is loncastuximab tesirine, a monoclonal antibody and drug conjugate (ATC code: 
L01FX22). Zynlonta delivers SG3199, a pyrrolobenzodiazepine (PBD) dimer cytotoxin, to B-cell 
malignancies by targeting CD19. Upon binding to CD19, Zynlonta is internalised and SG3199 is released, 
resulting in the formation of highly cytotoxic DNA interstrand cross-links, which cause cell-death. 
The benefits of Zynlonta are its ability to provide durable treatment responses after up to 1 year of 
treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, as shown in a phase 2, open-label, single arm 
study. The most common side effects are gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) increased, neutropenia, 
fatigue, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, nausea, peripheral oedema and rash. 
The full indication is: 
Zynlonta as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL), after 
two or more lines of systemic therapy. 
Zynlonta should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 19 September 2022  
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
3 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
4 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Zynlonta  
EMA/CHMP/722012/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
