26 January 2023 
EMA/CHMP/898000/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sotyktu 
deucravacitinib 
On 26 January 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sotyktu, 
intended for the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
Sotyktu will be available as a 6 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Sotyktu is deucravacitinib, 
a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA56) that inhibits the tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) enzyme 
(TYK2 belongs to the JAK family). TYK2 mediates signalling of interleukin-23 (IL-23), interleukin-12 (IL-
12), and type I interferons (IFNs), which are naturally occurring cytokines involved in inflammatory and 
immune responses. By binding to TYK2, Sotyktu inhibits receptor-mediated activation of TYK2 and its 
downstream functions in cells, which controls the inflammation caused by plaque psoriasis.  
The benefits of Sotyktu are its ability to improve the skin condition, measured by the proportion of 
patients achieving a PASI 75 response (at least a 75% reduction in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index) 
and a static Physician’s Global Assessment (sPGA) of clear or almost clear (0 or 1) in two phase 3 
multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo- and apremilast-controlled clinical studies. The most 
common side effects are upper respiratory infections, most frequently nasopharyngitis. 
The full indication is: 
SOTYKTU is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are 
candidates for systemic therapy. 
Sotyktu should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of psoriasis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
