17 March 2011 
EMA/CHMP/204341/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yellox 
bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate 
On 17 March 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yellox, 
1 mg/ml, eye drops, solution, intended for the treatment of postoperative ocular inflammation. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Croma-Pharma GmbH. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Yellox is bromfenac, an anti-inflammatory agent, non-steroids, ATC code: 
S01BC11, with mechanism of action through blockage of the prostaglandin synthesis by inhibiting 
primarily cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2). 
The benefit with Yellox is its ability to be effective in the treatment of post-operative ocular 
inflammation in subjects undergoing cataract extraction with posterior intraocular chamber lens 
implantation. 
The most common side effects are abnormal sensation in eye, corneal erosion (mild or moderate), eye 
pruritus, eye pain and eye redness. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Yellox will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of postoperative ocular inflammation following cataract 
extraction in adults”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Yellox and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
