30 March 2023
EMA/CHMP/583559/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Dabigatran etexilate Accord
dabigatran etexilate
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dabigatran 
etexilate Accord, intended for primary prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolic events and 
prevention of recurrent episodes, prevention of stroke and systemic embolism and treatment of deep vein 
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and prevention of recurrent episodes.
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U.
Dabigatran etexilate Accord will be available as 75 mg, 110 mg and 150 mg hard capsules. The active 
substance of Dabigatran etexilate Accord is dabigatran etexilate, an antithrombotic agent (ATC code: 
B01AE07). Dabigatran etexilate is a prodrug that is metabolised to dabigatran, a direct thrombin 
inhibitor. Since thrombin enables the conversion of fibrinogen into fibrin during the coagulation cascade, 
its inhibition prevents the development of blood clots. 
Dabigatran etexilate Accord is a generic of Pradaxa, which has been authorised in the EU since 18 March 
2008. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dabigatran etexilate Accord, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Pradaxa. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here.
The full indication is:
Dabigatran etexilate Accord 75 mg hard capsules
Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have 
undergone elective total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery.
Treatment of VTE and prevention of recurrent VTE in paediatric patients from birth to less than 
18 years of age.
For age appropriate dose forms, see section 4.2 of the SmPC.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Dabigatran etexilate Accord 110 mg hard capsules
Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have 
undergone elective total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery.
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA); 
age ≥75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension.
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults.
Treatment of VTE and prevention of recurrent VTE in paediatric patients from birth to less than 
18 years of age.
For age appropriate dose forms, see section 4.2 of the SmPC.
Dabigatran etexilate Accord 150 mg hard capsules
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA); 
age ≥75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension.
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults
Treatment of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) and prevention of recurrent VTE in paediatric 
patients from birth to less than 18 years of age.
For age appropriate dose forms, see section 4.2 of the SmPC.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
Dabigatran etexilate Accord 
EMA/CHMP/583559/2022
Page 2/2
