18 February 2010 
EMA/CHMP/85718/2010 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tyverb 
lapatinib  
On 18 February 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Tyverb. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Glaxo Group Ltd. They 
may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress HER2 
(ErbB2); 
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor 
positive metastatic disease, not currently intended for chemotherapy. The patients in the 
registration study were not previously treated with trastuzumab or an aromatase inhibitor (see 
section 5.1).” 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  updated  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  public  assessment  report 
(EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Tyverb will be as follows2: 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress HER2 
(ErbB2); 
• 
in combination with capecitabine for patients with advanced or metastatic disease with progression 
following prior therapy, which must have included anthracyclines and taxanes and therapy with 
trastuzumab in the metastatic setting (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women with hormone 
receptor positive metastatic disease, not currently intended for chemotherapy. The 
patients in the registration study were not previously treated with trastuzumab or an 
aromatase inhibitor (see section 5.1).” 
Tyverb  
EMA/CHMP/85718/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
