26 April 2019 
EMA/231400/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ambrisentan Mylan 
ambrisentan 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ambrisentan Mylan, 
intended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Ambrisentan Mylan will be available as 5 mg and 10 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Ambrisentan Mylan is ambrisentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) that is selective for the 
endothelin type A (ETA) receptor (ATC code: C02KX02). ETA receptor antagonists prevent 
endothelin-mediated activation of second messenger systems that result in vasoconstriction and smooth 
muscle cell proliferation. 
Ambrisentan Mylan is a generic of Volibris which has been authorised in the EU since 21 April 2008. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ambrisentan Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Volibris. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: “treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO 
Functional Class (FC) II to III, including use in combination treatment (see section 5.1). Efficacy has been 
shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH associated with connective tissue disease.” It is proposed that 
Ambrisentan Mylan should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of PAH. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
