28 June 2018 
EMA/CHMP/396710/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yescarta 
axicabtagene ciloleucel 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yescarta, 
intended for the treatment of diffuse large cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and primary mediastinal B-cell 
lymphoma (PMBCL). As Yescarta is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is 
based on an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies.  
Yescarta, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 16 December 2014, was reviewed 
under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Kite Pharma 
EU B.V. 
Yescarta will be available as a dispersion for infusion. The active substance of Yescarta is axicabtagene 
ciloleucel, an autologous, immunocellular cancer therapy which involves reprogramming a patient’s own T 
cells to identify and eliminate CD19-expressing cells. This is achieved by addition of a transgene encoding 
a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). 
The benefits with Yescarta are its ability to achieve an objective response with a significant duration in 
patients with DLBCL and patients with PMBCL. The most common side effects are cytokine release 
syndrome, infections, pyrexia, diarrhoea, nausea, hypotension and fatigue. 
The full indication is:  
"Yescarta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), after two or 
more lines of systemic therapy." 
It is proposed that Yescarta be administered in a qualified treatment centre. Therapy should be started 
and supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies 
and trained for administration and management of patients treated with Yescarta. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Yescarta  
EMA/CHMP/396710/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
