30 May 2013 
EMA/CHMP/301621/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Voncento 
Human coagulation factor VIII, human Von Willebrand factor 
On 30 May 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Voncento 
by CSL Behring GmbH. This recommendation will now be forwarded to the European Commission, 
which will issue a legally binding decision. 
Voncento is recommended to be used for the prevention and treatment of bleeding in patients with 
haemophilia A and Von Willebrand disease (two inherited bleeding disorders).   
The indications recommended by the CHMP are as follows: 
“Von Willebrand disease (VWD):  Treatment of haemorrhage or prevention and treatment of surgical 
bleeding in patients with Von Willebrand disease, when desmopressin treatment alone is ineffective or 
contraindicated. 
Haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency): Prophylaxis and treatment of bleeding in patients 
with haemophilia A.” 
The active substances in Voncento are human coagulation factor VIII and human Von Willebrand 
factor, substances that help the blood to clot, also known as antihaemorrhagics. Patients with 
haemophilia A lack factor VIII and patients with Von Willebrand disease lack Von Willebrand factor, 
which leads to bleeding disorders. Voncento is used to correct the deficiency by replacing the missing 
coagulation factors, giving temporary control of the bleeding disorder.  
Voncento will be available as a powder and solvent for solution for injection or infusion in three 
strengths (250 IU / 600 IU, 500 IU / 1200 IU, and 1000 IU / 2400 IU). It will only be obtained with a 
prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of 
haemostatic disorders (bleeding disorders). 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Voncento’s 
benefits are greater than its risks following the assessment of two main studies, one study 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
investigating the effects of Voncento in 81 patients with haemophilia A, and one investigating the 
effects of Voncento in 22 patients with Von Willebrand disease. Voncento was effective in preventing 
the occurrence of bleeding events in patients with severe haemophilia A and in stopping bleeding in 
patients with severe Von Willebrand disease. When bleeding events did occur in haemophilia A patients 
on prophylaxis, Voncento was effective in treating these events. Voncento was also effective in the 
prevention and treatment of bleeding in relation to surgery. 
Regarding its safety, side effects were generally mild to moderate. The most common side effects are 
hypersensitivity or allergic reactions, thromboembolic events, pyrexia, headache, dysgeusia and 
abnormal liver function test levels. Furthermore patients may develop inhibitors to factor VIII and Von 
Willebrand factor. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Voncento 
EMA/CHMP/301621/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
