21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/709518/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane 
para-aminosalicylic acid 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane, 4 g, gastro-resistant granules intended for the treatment of multi-
drug resistant tuberculosis. Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane was designated as an orphan medicinal 
product on 17 December 2010. The applicant for this medicinal product is Lucane Pharma SA. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane is para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS), a 
bacteriostatic antimycobacterial (J04AA01). It exerts its activity by competing with paraminobenzoic 
acid (PABA) for dihydropteroate synthetase (DHP), a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of folates. 
The benefits with Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane are based on historical data showing that when PAS 
was used in combination with other anti-tuberculosis drugs (Streptomycin and Isoniazid), it could be 
effective in the treatment of active TB. It also appears to reduce the incidence of resistant organisms. 
It is therefore considered that PAS can make a contribution as part of a treatment regimen for MDR-TB 
(inclusive of XDR-TB). The most frequent adverse reactions were related to the gastrointestinal system 
(abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, bloating, diarrhea and soft stools). Cutaneous hypersensitivity 
reactions were also frequent as well as adverse reactions related to the nervous system (giddiness, 
vestibular syndrome). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane is indicated for use as part of an 
appropriate combination regimen for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis in adults and paediatric patients 
from 28 days of age and older when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be composed for 
reasons of resistance or tolerability (see section 4.4). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Para-aminosalicylic acid Lucane 
EMA/CHMP/709518/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
