25 February 2021                
EMA/35501/2021 Rev. 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pemazyre 
pemigatinib 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pemazyre3, intended for the second-line treatment of advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma 
characterized by fusion or rearrangements of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Pemazyre will be available as 4.5 mg, 9 mg and 13.5 mg tablets. The active substance of Pemazyre is 
pemigatinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX20) which is a kinase inhibitor of FGFR 1, 2 and 3 
that inhibits FGFR phosphorylation and signalling and decreases viability of cells expressing FGFR genetic 
alterations, including point mutations, amplifications, and fusions or rearrangements. 
The benefits with Pemazyre are its ability to increase the number of patients with a complete or partial 
response after first-line treatment, which is maintained for a median of 8 months.  
The most common side effects are hyperphosphatemia, alopecia, diarrhoea, nail toxicity, fatigue, nausea, 
dysgeusia, stomatitis, constipation, dry mouth, dry eye, arthralgia, hypophosphataemia, dry skin and 
palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome. 
The full indication is: 
Pemazyre monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or 
metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or 
rearrangement that have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy4.  
Pemazyre should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
4 This document was updated to reflect changes to the text of the indication for Pemazyre adopted by CHMP on 25 February 
2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biliary tract cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Pemazyre  
EMA/35501/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
