24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/438693/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Humira 
adalimumab 
On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Humira. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd. They may 
request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and older, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Humira will be as follows2: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Humira in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
 
 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Humira can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Humira has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and 
to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Humira in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or 
more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Humira can be given as monotherapy in case 
of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate (for 
the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Humira has not been studied in patients aged less than 2 
years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 
years of age and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, 
conventional therapy (see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis  
Ankylosing spondylitis(AS) 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had 
an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and / or MRI, who have had 
an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Humira has 
been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in 
patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see Section 5.1) and to improve 
physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who failed to respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy 
including cyclosporine, methotrexate or PUVA. 
Crohn’s disease 
Humira is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.  
Humira 
EMA/CHMP/438693/2014  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Crohn's disease  
Humira is indicated for the treatment of severe active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients (from 6 
years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including primary 
nutrition therapy, a corticosteroid, and an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Humira is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Humira 
EMA/CHMP/438693/2014  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
