21 April 2017  
EMA/CHMP/665612/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cuprior 
trientine tetrahydrochloride 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cuprior, 
intended for the treatment of Wilson’s disease. Cuprior was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 
19 March 2015. The applicant for this medicinal product is gmp-orphan SA. 
Cuprior will be available as 150 mg tablets (trientine base). The active substance of Cuprior is trientine 
tetrahydrochloride. Trientine is a copper-chelating agent (ATC code: A16AX) that removes copper from 
the body by forming a stable complex that is then eliminated through urinary excretion. Trientine may 
also inhibit copper absorption from the intestinal tract. 
The benefits with Cuprior are its ability to decrease serum copper levels in patients with Wilson’s disease. 
Excessive levels of copper lead to neurological abnormalities and hepatic dysfunction. 
The most commonly reported adverse reaction with trientine is nausea. Serious iron deficiency anaemia 
and severe colitis may occur during treatment.   
Cuprior is a hybrid medicine2 of Trientine dihydrochloride 300 mg capsules (equivalent to 200 mg 
trientine base) which have been authorised in the EU since 08 August 1985. Cuprior works in the same 
way as the reference product but, unlike the reference product, the trientine salt in Cuprior 
(tetrahydrochloride) does not require refrigerated storage. 
The full indication is: "Cuprior is indicated for the treatment of Wilson’s disease in adults, adolescents and 
children ≥ 5 years intolerant to D-penicillamine therapy." 
It is proposed that treatment with Cuprior be initiated by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
Wilson’s disease.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
