24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/337860/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Voxzogo 
vosoritide 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Voxzogo2, 
intended for the treatment of achondroplasia in patients aged 2 years of age and above whose epiphyses 
are not closed. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is BioMarin International Limited. 
Voxzogo will be available as 0.4 mg, 0.56 mg and 1.2 mg vials of powder and a solvent for solution for 
injection. The active substance of Voxzogo is vosoritide, a modified type C natriuretic peptide (CNP) (ATC 
code: M05BX07). Like CNP, vosoritide acts as a positive regulator of endochondral bone growth by 
promoting chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation. 
The benefits of Voxzogo are its ability to provide significant improvements in growth, adding an average 
of 1.57 cm in height a year in patients treated with Voxzogo 15 µg/kg/day. The observed increase in 
growth occurred proportionally in both the spine and the lower limbs. The most common side effects are 
hypotension, injection site reactions and vomiting. 
The full indication is: 
Voxzogo is indicated for the treatment of achondroplasia in patients 2 years of age and older 
whose epiphyses are not closed. The diagnosis of achondroplasia should be confirmed by 
appropriate genetic testing. 
Voxzogo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of growth disorders or skeletal 
dysplasias. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Voxzogo  
EMA/CHMP/337860/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
