20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/696168/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
InductOs 
dibotermin alfa 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product InductOs. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Medtronic 
BioPharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
"InductOs is indicated for single-level lumbar interbody spine fusion as a substitute for autogenous 
bone graft in adults with degenerative disc disease who have had at least 6 months of non-operative 
treatment for this condition." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for InductOs will be as follows2: 
InductOs is indicated for single-level (L4 – S1) anterior lumbar interbody spine fusion as a 
substitute for autogenous bone graft in adults with degenerative disc disease who have had at least 
6 months of non-operative treatment for this condition. 
InductOs is indicated for the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to standard care 
using open fracture reduction and intramedullary unreamed nail fixation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
