European Medicines Agency 
Post-authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/545425/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
JANUVIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Januvia. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Merck 
Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Januvia is also indicated as add-on to insulin (with or without metformin) when diet and exercise plus 
stable dosage of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Januvia will be as follows***: 
“For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Januvia is indicated to improve glycaemic control: 
as monotherapy 
• 
in patients inadequately controlled by diet and exercise alone and for whom metformin is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
as dual oral therapy in combination with 
metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to 
contraindications or intolerance. 
a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and 
when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68  
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
• 
• 
• 
* 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as triple oral therapy in combination with 
• 
• 
a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
a PPARγ agonist and metformin when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and 
exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Januvia is also indicated as add-on to insulin (with or without metformin) when diet and 
exercise plus stable dosage of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
