18 March 2010 
EMA/CHMP/43325/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Topotecan Hospira 
topotecan 
On 18 March 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Topotecan 
Hospira 4mg/4ml, concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of patients with 
relapsed small cell lung cancer for whom re-treatment with the first-line regimen is not considered 
appropriate; and in combination with cisplatin Topotecan Hospira is intended for the treatment of 
patients with carcinoma of the cervix recurrent after radiotherapy and for patients with Stage IVB 
disease. Patients with prior exposure to cisplatin require a sustained treatment free interval to justify 
treatment with the combination. The applicant for this medicinal product is Hospira UK Limited. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Topotecan Hospira is topotecan (as hydrochloride), an antineoplastic agent 
(L01XX17). Topotecan is a cytotoxic anti-cancer agent and acts by inhibition of the nuclear enzyme 
topoisomerase I that is involved in DNA replication. As a result, DNA damage induces apoptotic cell 
death predominantly in replicating cells such as tumour cells. 
Topotecan Hospira is a generic of Hycamtin, which has been authorised in the EU since 12 November 
1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Topotecan Hospira. Topotecan Hospira is 
administrated intravenously and is 100% bioavailable. Therefore, a bioequivalence study versus the 
reference medicinal product was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Topotecan Hospira will be implemented as part of the Marketing 
Authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Topotecan monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
relapsed small cell lung cancer (SCLC) for whom re-treatment with the first-line regimen is not 
considered appropriate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Topotecan in combination with cisplatin is indicated for patients with carcinoma of the cervix which is 
recurrent after radiotherapy, and for patients with Stage IVB disease. Patients with prior exposure to 
cisplatin require a sustained treatment-free interval to justify treatment with the combination.” 
It is proposed that the use of Topotecan Hospira should be confined to units specialised in the 
administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy and should only be administered under the supervision of a 
physician experienced in the use of chemotherapy 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Topotecan Hospira and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Topotecan Hospira  
EMA/CHMP/43325/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
