26 April 2023  
EMA/CHMP/169143/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Adempas 
riociguat 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Adempas. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bayer AG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in 
paediatric patients as follows. 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
Paediatrics 
Adempas is indicated for the treatment of PAH in paediatric patients aged less than 18 years of 
age and body weight ≥ 50 kg with WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III in combination with 
endothelin receptor antagonists (see section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Adempas will be as follows:2 
Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) 
Adempas is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III 
with 
• 
• 
inoperable CTEPH, 
persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment, 
to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
Adults 
Adempas, as monotherapy or in combination with endothelin receptor antagonists, is indicated 
for the treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with WHO 
Functional Class (FC) II to III to improve exercise capacity. 
Efficacy has been shown in a PAH population including aetiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH 
or PAH associated with connective tissue disease (see section 5.1). 
Paediatrics 
Adempas is indicated for the treatment of PAH in paediatric patients aged less than 
18 years of age and body weight ≥ 50 kg with WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III in 
combination with endothelin receptor antagonists (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Adempas  
EMA/CHMP/169143/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
