24 September 2015  
EMA/CHMP/596263/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pemetrexed medac 
pemetrexed 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pemetrexed 
medac, intended for the treatment of unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma and locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is medac Gesellschaft für klinische Spezialpräparate mbH. 
Pemetrexed medac will be available as 100 mg, 500 mg and 1,000 mg powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion. The active substance of Pemetrexed medac, pemetrexed, is a multi-targeted anti-
cancer antifolate agent (ATC code: L01BA04) that exerts its action by disrupting crucial folate-dependent 
metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Pemetrexed medac is a generic of Alimta, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 September 2004. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pemetrexed medac. Since Pemetrexed medac is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference 
product Alimta was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
"Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed medac in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed medac in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Pemetrexed medac is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Pemetrexed medac is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology."  
It is proposed that Pemetrexed medac be subject to prescription and administered under the supervision 
of physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Pemetrexed medac  
EMA/CHMP/596263/2015 
Page 2/2 
  
  
