20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/683189/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ofev 
nintedanib 
On  20  November  2014  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Ofev, 100 mg and 150 mg, soft capsules intended for adults in the treatment of Idiopathic Pulmonary 
Fibrosis (IPF). Ofev was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 April 2013. 
The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Boehringer  Ingelheim  International  GmbH.  They  may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Ofev  is  nintedanib  a  tyrosine  kinase  inhibitor  (L01XE)  blocking  vascular 
endothelial  growth 
factor 
receptors  (VEGFR 1-3),  platelet-derived  growth 
factor 
receptors 
(PDGFR α and ß)  and  fibroblast  growth  factor  receptors  (FGFR 1-3)  kinase  activity  crucial  for  the 
proliferation and migration of lung fibroblasts cells, and eventually inhibiting lung fibrosis. 
The benefits with Ofev are its ability to reduce the rate of deterioration of lung function measured as 
decline of absolute volume of Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 
It  is  noted  that  demonstration  of  this  effect  in  the  two  pivotal  clinical  studies  showed  a  clear  and 
consistent  benefit  in  reducing  the  decline  of  FVC  by  approximately  94  mL/year  and  125  mL/year 
respectively. 
The  most  common  side  effects  are:  gastrointestinal  disorders,  diarrhoea,  vomiting,  nausea,  alanine 
aminotransferase increase, aspartase aminotransferase increase. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ofev will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  "indicated  in  adults  for  the  treatment  of  Idiopathic  Pulmonary  Fibrosis 
(IPF)". It is proposed that Ofev be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment 
of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibtrosis (IPF). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit-to-risk  balance  for  Ofev  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Ofev 
EMA/CHMP/683189/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
