30 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/222209/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Daurismo 
glasdegib 
On 30 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Daurismo2, 
intended for the treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Daurismo will be available as 25 mg and 100 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Daurismo is 
glasdegib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX63). Glasdegib is an inhibitor of the Hedgehog (Hh) 
signal transduction pathway. It binds to a transmembrane protein (Smoothened, SMO), leading to 
decreased glioma-associated oncogene (GLI) transcription factor activity and downstream pathway 
signalling, thus reducing GLI1 levels in AML cells and the leukaemic initiating potential of AML cells. 
The benefits of Daurismo are its ability to improve the overall survival when combined with low-dose 
cytarabine. The most common side effects are nausea, decreased appetite, fatigue, muscle spasms, 
diarrhoea, dysgeusia, constipation, abdominal pain, rash and vomiting. The most frequent severe adverse 
reaction reported was fatigue.  
The full indication is:  
Daurismo is indicated, in combination with low-dose cytarabine, for the treatment of newly 
diagnosed de novo or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in adult patients who are not 
candidates for standard induction chemotherapy.  
It is proposed that Daurismo be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
