26 April 2023 
EMA/CHMP/178271/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sugammadex Piramal 
sugammadex 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sugammadex 
Piramal, intended to reverse the effects of the muscle relaxants rocuronium and vecuronium. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Piramal Critical Care B.V. 
Sugammadex Piramal will be available as a 100 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of 
Sugammadex Piramal is sugammadex, an antidote (ATC code: V03AB35). Sugammadex is a selective 
relaxant-binding agent which forms a complex with the muscle relaxants rocuronium and vecuronium, 
thereby reversing their neuromuscular blockade effect and allowing muscles to function normally again. 
Sugammadex Piramal is a generic of Bridion, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 July 2008. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sugammadex Piramal. Since Sugammadex Piramal 
is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference 
product Bridion was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is: 
Reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium in adults. 
For the paediatric population: sugammadex is only recommended for routine reversal of 
rocuronium induced blockade in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years. 
Sugammadex Piramal should only be administered by, or under the supervision of, an anaesthetist. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
