European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/455323/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CLOPIDOGREL MYLAN PHARMA 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel 
On  23  July  May  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Clopidogrel MYLAN Pharma, 75 mg, film-coated tablets intended for use in adults for the prevention 
of atherothrombotic events in patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less 
than 35 days), ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial 
disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
The  active  substance  of  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  Pharma  is  clopidogrel  (as  besilate),  a  platelet 
aggregation  inhibitor  excl.  heparin  medicinal  product  (B01AC04).  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  Pharma 
selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of  ADP  to  its  platelet  receptor,  and  the  subsequent  ADP-mediated 
activation  of  the  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation.  Biotransformation  of 
clopidogrel is necessary to produce inhibition of platelet aggregation. 
Clopidogrel  MYLAN  Pharma  is  a  generic  of  Plavix.  Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory 
quality of Clopidogrel MYLAN Pharma, and its bioequivalence with the reference product Plavix. A 
question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is as follows:  
“Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
•   Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.” 
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  Pharma,  as  for  all  medicinal  products,  will  be 
implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  Pharma  and  therefore  recommends  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
