30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/28370/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Arsenic trioxide Mylan 
arsenic trioxide 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Arsenic 
trioxide Mylan, intended for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Mylan Ireland Limited. 
Arsenic trioxide Mylan will be available as 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Arsenic trioxide Mylan is arsenic trioxide, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX27) that 
causes fragmentation, damage or degradation of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and the fusion protein pro-
myelocytic leukaemia/retinoic acid receptor-alpha (PML/RAR alpha) in promyelocytic leukaemia cells. The 
mechanism of action of arsenic trioxide is not completely understood. 
Arsenic trioxide Mylan is a generic of Trisenox, which has been authorised in the EU since 5 March 2002. 
Since Arsenic trioxide Mylan is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence 
study versus the reference product Trisenox was not required. A question and answer document on 
generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Arsenic trioxide Mylan is indicated for induction of remission, and consolidation in adult patients 
with:  
•  Newly diagnosed low-to-intermediate risk acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (white blood cell 
count, ≤ 10 x 103/μl) in combination with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) 
•  Relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) (Previous treatment should have 
included a retinoid and chemotherapy)  
characterised by the presence of the t(15;17) translocation and/or the presence of the Pro-Myelocytic 
Leukaemia/Retinoic-Acid-Receptor-alpha (PML/RAR-alpha) gene.  
The response rate of other acute myelogenous leukaemia subtypes to arsenic trioxide has not been 
examined.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
It is proposed that Arsenic trioxide Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
acute leukaemias.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Arsenic trioxide Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/28370/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
