20 May 2021  
EMA/CHMP/278065/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Darzalex  
daratumumab 
On 20 May 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted two positive 
opinions recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Darzalex. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The CHMP extended the existing indication for Darzalex 1,800 mg solution for injection as follows:2  
Multiple Myeloma 
Darzalex is indicated: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone or with bortezomib, melphalan and 
prednisone for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who 
are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant. 
in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult 
patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are eligible for autologous stem cell 
transplant. 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, for 
the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior 
therapy. 
in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult 
patients with multiple myeloma who have received one prior therapy containing a 
proteasome inhibitor and lenalidomide and were lenalidomide-refractory, or who 
have received at least two prior therapies that included lenalidomide and a 
proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on or after the 
last therapy (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple 
myeloma, whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory 
agent and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
AL Amyloidosis 
Darzalex is indicated in combination with cyclophosphamide, bortezomib and 
dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed systemic light 
chain (AL) amyloidosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Darzalex  
EMA/CHMP/278065/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
