European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/505041/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CANCIDAS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): caspofungin 
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Cancidas. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Merck 
Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
“Treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult or paediatric patients. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
• 
•  Treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis  in  adult  or  paediatric  patients  who  are  refractory  to  or 
intolerant  of  amphotericin  B,  lipid  formulations  of  amphotericin  B  and/or  itraconazole. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after  a  minimum of 7 
days of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
•  Empirical  therapy  for  presumed  fungal  infections  (such  as  Candida  or  Aspergillus)  in  febrile, 
neutropaenic adult or paediatric patients.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Cancidas will be as follows***: 
• 
“Treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult or paediatric patients. 
•  Treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis  in  adult  or  paediatric  patients  who  are  refractory  to  or 
intolerant  of  amphotericin  B,  lipid  formulations  of  amphotericin  B  and/or  itraconazole. 
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after  a  minimum of 7 
days of prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
•  Empirical  therapy  for  presumed  fungal  infections  (such  as  Candida  or  Aspergillus)  in  febrile, 
neutropaenic adult or paediatric patients.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
