European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/471151/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ISENTRESS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): raltegravir 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Isentress. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows***: 
Isentress is indicated in combination with other anti-retroviral medicinal products for the treatment of 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in adult patients. 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of 
48 weeks duration in treatment-experienced patients and one double-blind, active-controlled trial of 
48 weeks duration in treatment-naïve patients. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
