14 December 2017 
EMA/CHMP/815767/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Alofisel 
darvadstrocel 
On 14 December 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Alofisel, 
intended for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas in patients with Crohn’s disease. As Alofisel is an 
advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an assessment by the 
Committee for Advanced Therapies. Alofisel was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 October 
2009. The applicant for this medicinal product is Tigenix, S.A.U. 
Alofisel will be available as a suspension for injection (5 million cells/ml). The active substance of Alofisel 
is darvadstrocel. Darvadstrocel contains expanded adipose stem cells which, once activated, impair 
proliferation of lymphocytes and reduce the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines at inflammation sites. 
This immunoregulatory activity reduces inflammation and may allow the tissues around the fistula tract to 
heal.  
The benefits with Alofisel are its ability to improve the healing process of complex perianal fistulas in 
patients with Crohn’s disease. The most commonly reported side effects include anal abscess and fistula, 
as well as procedural pain and proctalgia. 
The full indication is: "Alofisel is indicated for the treatment of complex perianal fistulas in adult patients 
with non-active/mildly active luminal Crohn’s disease, when fistulas have shown an inadequate response 
to at least one conventional or biologic therapy. Alofisel should be used after conditioning of fistula, see 
section 4.2." 
It is proposed that Alofisel be administered by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions for which Alofisel is indicated.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
