European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/382041/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VELCADE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): bortezomib 
On 24 July 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Velcade.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Janssen-Cilag 
International NV. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
previously  untreated  multiple  myeloma  who  are  not  eligible  for  high-dose  chemotherapy  with  bone 
marrow transplant.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Velcade will be as follows***: 
“Velcade  in  combination  with  melphalan  and  prednisone  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of 
patients  with  previously  untreated  multiple  myeloma  who  are  not  eligible  for  high-dose 
chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant. 
VELCADE  is  indicated  as  mono-therapy  for  the  treatment  of  progressive  multiple  myeloma  in 
patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable 
for bone marrow transplantation.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
