30 March 2023 
EMA/CHMP/122125/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Briumvi 
ublituximab 
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Briumvi, intended for 
the  treatment  of  multiple  sclerosis.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Propharma  Group  The 
Netherlands B.V. 
Briumvi will be available as a 150 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Briumvi is ublituximab, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AG14) that selectively targets 
CD20-expressing B-cells involved in the inflammatory changes in the central nervous system of patients 
with multiple sclerosis. 
The benefits of Briumvi are a 49-59% reduction in the annual relapse rate and a ≥90% reduction in the 
number of acute inflammatory lesions (97% of Gd-enhancing T1 lesions and 90-92% T2 hyperintense 
lesions per MRI scan), compared with teriflunomide in two Phase 3, randomised, double-blind, active-
controlled clinical trials in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis. The most common side effects are 
infusion-related reactions and infections.  
The full indication is: 
Briumvi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
(RMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features (see section 5.1). 
Briumvi should be initiated and supervised by specialised physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of neurological conditions and who have access to appropriate medical support to manage 
severe reactions such as serious infusion-related reactions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
