25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/568353/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ketoconazole HRA 
ketoconazole 
On 25 September 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Ketoconazole HRA, 200mg tablets intended for the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome in 
adults and adolescents above the age of 12 years. 
Ketoconazole HRA was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 23 April 2012. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Laboratoire HRA Pharma. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ketoconazole HRA is ketoconazole a potent inhibitor of cortisol synthesis and 
aldosterone synthesis from its ability to inhibit several cytochrome P450 enzymes in the adrenal 
glands. Ketoconazole is also a potent inhibitor of androgens synthesis. Apart from adrenal blocking 
effect, ketoconazole may also have direct effects on corticotropic tumour cells in patients with 
Cushing’s disease. 
The benefits with Ketoconazole HRA are its ability to allow a long-term control of hypercortisolism. The 
biochemical and hormonal improvements observed (measure of decreases or normalization of urinary 
free cortisol levels) are usually associated with clinical improvements in Cushing’s Syndrome 
symptoms. The clinical experience suggests that ketoconazole may be a valuable drug for the short-
term or the long term medical management of the patients with Cushing’s Syndrome, whenever a 
medical therapy is indicated. 
The most common side effects are adrenal insufficiency, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, 
pruritus, rash and increased hepatic enzymes. The most significant adverse reaction is hepatotoxicity 
requiring monitoring of liver function prior and during treatment. Adrenal insufficiency and ECG 
monitoring are also required. Furthermore, a careful approach is needed with regards to potential 
drug-drug interactions due to its metabolism. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ketoconazole HRA will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.   
The approved indication is: "Ketoconazole HRA is indicated for the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s 
syndrome in adults and adolescents above the age of 12 years".  
It is proposed that Ketoconazole HRA should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in 
endocrinology or internal medicine and having the appropriate facilities for monitoring of biochemical 
responses since the dosage must be adjusted to meet the patient’s therapeutic need, based on the 
normalisation of cortisol levels. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Ketoconazole HRA and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
EMA/568353/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
