19 December 2013 
EMA/CHMP/539526/2013 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cometriq 
cabozantinib 
On 19 December 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cometriq 20 mg and 80 mg hard capsules, intended for the treatment of medullary thyroid cancer, a 
rare type of thyroid cancer, that cannot be removed by surgery or that has spread to other parts of the 
body. 
Cometriq was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 February 2009. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is TMC Pharma Services Ltd.  They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Cometriq is cabozantinib, an antineoplastic agent, protein kinase inhibitor. 
Cabozantinib inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) implicated in tumour growth and 
angiogenesis, pathologic bone remodeling, and metastatic progression of cancer. By inhibiting RTKs, 
cabozantinib may slow or stop the growth of medullary thyroid cancer.   
The benefits with Cometriq are its ability to improve progression-free survival (PFS) as compared to 
placebo in patients with progressive, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid 
carcinoma. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome (PPES), decreased weight, decreased appetite, nausea, fatigue, dysgeusia, hair colour 
changes, hypertension, stomatitis, constipation, vomiting, mucosal inflammation, asthenia and 
dysphonia.  The most common laboratory abnormalities were increased AST, increased ALT, increased 
ALP, lymphopenia, hypocalcaemia, hypophosphataemia, hyperbilirubinaemia, neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia and hypoalbuminaemia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cometriq will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Cometriq is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive, 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
For patients in whom Rearranged during Transfection (RET) mutation status is not known or is 
negative, a possible lower benefit should be taken into account before individual treatment decision 
(see important information in sections 4.4 and 5.1)".  
It is proposed that Cometriq be prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of 
anticancer medicinal products.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Cometriq and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Cometriq 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
