19 July 2012 
EMA/461407/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dacogen 
decitabine 
On 19 July 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dacogen, 
50 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, intended for the treatment of acute myeloid 
leukaemia. Dacogen was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 June 2006. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Dacogen is decitabine, a Pyrimidine analogue (L01BC08). It is a cytosine 
nucleoside analogue which inhibits DNA methyltransferase. 
The benefits with Dacogen are its ability to show an increase in overall survival. The most common 
side effects are pyrexia, pneumonia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, febrile neutropenia, neutropenia, 
nausea and diarrhoea.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Dacogen will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Dacogen is indicated for the treatment of adult patients aged 65 years and 
above with newly diagnosed de novo or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), according to the 
World Health Organisation (WHO) classification, who are not candidates for standard induction 
chemotherapy”. It is proposed that Dacogen be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of 
chemotherapeutic agents.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Dacogen and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Dacogen 
EMA/461407/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
