15 November 2018 
EMA/CHMP/784876/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Erleada 
apalutamide 
On 15 November 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Erleada, 
intended for the treatment of non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Erleada will be available as 60-mg tablets. The active substance of Erleada is apalutamide, a selective 
androgen receptor inhibitor (ATC code: L02BB05) that binds directly to the ligand binding domain of the 
androgen receptor. 
The benefits with Erleada are its ability to delay metastatic disease. The most common side effects are 
fatigue, skin rash, weight decrease, arthralgia and falls. 
The full indication is: "Erleada is indicated in adult men for the treatment of non-metastatic castration 
resistant prostate cancer (NM CRPC) who are at high risk of developing metastatic disease". It is proposed 
that Erleada be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
