24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/523224/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ebymect 
dapagliflozin / metformin 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Ebymect, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Ebymect will be available as 5 mg/1000 mg and 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets. The active 
substance of Ebymect is dapagliflozin / metformin, a combination of two oral blood 
glucose-lowering medicines (ATC code: A10BD15). 
Dapagliflozin is a competitive, reversible, selective and orally active inhibitor of sodium-glucose 
co-transporter 2 (SGLT2). It improves fasting and post-prandial plasma glucose levels by reducing 
renal glucose reabsorption leading to urinary glucose excretion. Metformin is a biguanide that 
lowers both basal and postprandial plasma glucose by various mechanisms. It does not stimulate 
insulin secretion and, therefore, does not produce hypoglycaemia.  
The benefits with Ebymect are its ability to improve glycaemic control through reduction of blood 
glucose levels in patients inadequately controlled by metformin alone. The most common side 
effects are hypoglycaemia (when used with a sulfonylurea or insulin), nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, loss of appetite, vulvovaginitis, balanitis and related genital infections, urinary 
tract infection, dysuria and polyuria. 
The full indication is:  
“Ebymect is indicated in adults aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct 
to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control 
• 
• 
in patients inadequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone 
in combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products, including insulin, in patients 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
inadequately controlled with metformin and these medicinal products (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 
5.1 for available data on different combinations) 
• 
in patients already being treated with the combination of dapagliflozin and metformin as 
separate tablets.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
Ebymect  
EMA/CHMP/523224/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
