European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref.EMEA/CHMP/541231/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ONBREZ BREEZHALER 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): indacaterol maleate 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a    marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Onbrez  Breezhaler,  150  µg,  300  µg,  inhalation  powder  intended  for  maintenance  bronchodilator 
treatment of airflow obstruction in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Onbrez  Breezhaler  is  indacaterol  maleate,  a  long-acting,  beta2-adrenergic 
agonist medicinal product (ATC Code not yet assigned). When inhaled, indacaterol acts locally in the 
lung  as  a  bronchodilator.  The  benefits  with  Onbrez  Breezhaler  are  its  ability  to  provide  clinically 
significant improvements in lung function as measured by the forced expiratory volume in one second, 
over  24 hours  when  administered  once  a  day.  The  most  common  side  effects  are:  nasopharyngitis, 
cough,  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  and  headache.  A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Onbrez 
Breezhaler, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  maintenance  of  bronchodilator  treatment  of  airflow  obstruction  in  adult 
patients  with  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  (COPD).  The  recommended  dose  of  Onbrez 
Breezhaler is the inhalation of the content of one 150 microgram capsule once a day, using the Onbrez 
Breezhaler  inhaler.  The  dose  should  only be  increased  on  medical  advice  (up  to  the  maximum  dose 
300 µg. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Onbrez Breezhaler and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 <sector fax> 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
