The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 June 2003 
CPMP/3184/03 
COMMITTEE FOR PROPRIETARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS SUMMARY OF OPINION 
for  
OMNITROP 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): Somatropin 
On  26  June  2003,  the  Committee  for  Proprietary  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  OMNITROP 
3.3 mg/ml  solution  for  injection,  intended  for  the  treatment  of  growth  disturbance  in  children  (over 
three  years  of  age)  and  adolescents  due  to  insufficient  secretion  of  growth  hormone  and  growth 
disturbance  associated  with  Turner  syndrome  or  chronic  renal  insufficiency  and  as  replacement 
therapy  in  adults  with  pronounced  growth  hormone  deficiency.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is Sandoz GmbH. 
The active substance of OMNITROP, somatropin, is manufactured by recombinant DNA technology. 
Somatropin  is  an  anterior  pituitary  lobe  hormone,  ATC  code  H01AC01,  which  stimulates  linear 
growth and increases the growth rate in children. In adults as well as in children, somatropin maintains 
a normal body composition by increasing nitrogen retention and stimulation of skeletal muscle growth, 
and by mobilisation of body fat. 
The benefits of OMNITROP have been demonstrated by the efficacy results obtained with the liquid 
formulation,  supportive  clinical  studies  performed  with  a  lyophilised  formulation,  and  the  results 
mentioned  in  literature  for  other,  well-known,  growth  hormone  containing  products.  It  is  concluded 
that  the  efficacy  of  OMNITROP  parallels  that  of  other  growth  hormone  containing  products.  The 
overall design of the comparability programme has taken into account the nature of the molecule, the 
knowledge of the mode of action of the molecule and the experience with growth hormone in clinical 
use.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  the  development  of  antibodies  to  the  protein  without  any 
growth-inhibiting effects, hypothyroidism, disturbances in fluid balance (oedema), arthralgia, myalgia, 
stiffness in the extremities, paraesthesia and transient local injection site reactions. 
The approved indication for children (over three years of age) and adolescents is: “Growth disturbance 
due  to  insufficient  secretion  of  growth  hormone  and  growth  disturbance  associated  with  Turner 
syndrome  or  chronic  renal  insufficiency.”  and  for  adults  “Replacement  therapy  in  adults  with 
pronounced  growth  hormone  deficiency  as  diagnosed  in  two  different  dynamic  tests  for  growth 
hormone deficiency”.  
It is proposed that the therapy with somatropin should be initiated and monitored by physicians who 
are experienced in the diagnosis and management of patients with growth hormone deficiency. 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC), which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CPMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  OMNITROP  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
EMEA 2003 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
