29 May 2019 
EMA/290870/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cufence 
trientine dihydrochloride 
On 29 May 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cufence, intended for the 
treatment  of  Wilson’s  disease.  Cufence  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  24  October 
2003. The applicant for this medicinal product is Univar BV. 
Cufence  will  be  available  as  200  mg  hard  capsules  (trientine  base).  The  active  substance  of  Cufence  is 
trientine dihydrochloride, a copper-chelating agent (ATC code: A16AX) that removes copper from the body 
by forming a stable complex that is then eliminated through urinary excretion. Trientine may also inhibit 
copper absorption from the intestinal tract. 
The benefits with Cufence are its ability to decrease the excessively high serum and tissue copper levels in 
patients with Wilson’s disease, which lead to neurological abnormalities and hepatic dysfunction. The most 
common side effects of Cufence are nausea and occasionally skin rash. Neurological deterioration can occur 
at the start of the treatment. 
The full indication is: “Cufence is indicated for the treatment of Wilson’s disease in patients intolerant to 
D-penicillamine therapy, in adults, adolescents and children aged 5 years or older.” 
It  is  proposed  that  Cufence  be  initiated  by  specialist  physicians  with  experience  in  the  management  of 
Wilson’s disease. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
