11 November 2021 
EMA/CHMP/505741/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Voraxaze 
glucarpidase 
On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances2 for the medicinal product Voraxaze3, intended to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate 
concentration. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is SERB SAS. 
Voraxaze will be available as 1000 IU/ml powder for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Voraxaze is glucarpidase, a detoxifying agent for antineoplastic treatment (ATC code: V03AF09) that 
converts methotrexate to its inactive metabolites DAMPA and glutamate. 
The benefits of Voraxaze are a clinically important reduction in methotrexate concentration in at least 
62% of treated patients with a median reduction of > 98% in methotrexate concentration occurring 
within 15 minutes following glucarpidase administration, as observed in four compassionate-use, open-
label multicentre studies. The most common side effects are burning sensation, headache, 
paraesthesia, flushing and feeling hot. 
The full indication is: 
Voraxaze is indicated to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate concentration in adults and 
children (aged 28 days and older) with delayed methotrexate elimination or at risk of 
methotrexate toxicity. 
Voraxaze is intended for use under medical supervision. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy 
and safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the 
area concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available 
to date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
