10 December 2020               
EMA/CHMP/635286/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sunitinib Accord 
sunitinib 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sunitinib 
Accord, intended for the treatment of cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord 
Healthcare S.L.U. 
Sunitinib Accord will be available as 12.5, 25, 37.5 and 50 mg hard capsules. The active substance of 
Sunitinib Accord is sunitinib, an antineoplastic agent – a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (ATC code: 
L01XE04), which inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases that are implicated in tumour growth, 
pathologic angiogenesis, and metastatic progression of cancer. 
Sunitinib Accord is a generic of Sutent, which has been authorised in the EU since 19 July 2006. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sunitinib Accord, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Sutent. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic malignant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) in adults after failure of imatinib treatment due to 
resistance or intolerance. 
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma 
(MRCC) in adults. 
Sunitinib Accord is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated 
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (pNET) with disease progression in adults. 
Sunitinib Accord should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Sunitinib Accord  
EMA/CHMP/635286/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
