10 November 2016  
EMA/CHMP/715538/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Suliqua 
insulin glargine / lixisenatide 
On 10 November 2016 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Suliqua, 
intended for treatment of type 2 diabetes. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-aventis groupe. 
Suliqua is a fixed-ratio combination of insulin glargine, a basal insulin analogue, and lixisenatide, a 
glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist. Insulin glargine binds specifically to the human insulin 
receptor and results in the same pharmacological effects as human insulin. Lixisenatide acts via enhancing 
glucose-dependent insulin secretion and reducing glucagon release. Suliqua will be available as a solution 
for injection (insulin 100 units/ml with lixisenatide 33 or 50 micrograms/ml). 
The benefits with Suliqua are its clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control in patients with type 2 
diabetes when used in combination with metformin. Suliqua has a neutral effect on body weight. The most 
common side effects are hypoglycaemia, dizziness and gastrointestinal adverse reactions such as nausea 
and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is: "Suliqua is indicated in combination with metformin for the treatment of adults with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control when this has not been provided by metformin alone 
or metformin combined with another oral glucose lowering medicinal product or with basal insulin". 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
