20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/589593/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Memantine Merz  
memantine  
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Memantine Merz 10mg, 20mg, 5 mg + 10 mg + 15 mg + 20 mg film coated tablets and 5mg/pump 
actuation oral solution intended for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Memantine Merz is memantine hydrochloride, an anti-dementia drug (ATC 
Code N06DX01) which is a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist. The excessive release of 
glutamate is claimed to be associated with neurodegeneration in acute and chronic disorders such as 
hypoxia, ischaemia, stroke and perhaps Alzheimer’s disease. 
The benefits with Memantine Merz are its ability to show a statistically significant effect in preventing 
worsening in cognitive, global and functional domains in comparison to placebo. The most common 
side effects are dizziness, headache, constipation, somnolence and hypertension. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mematine Merz will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: Treatment of patients with moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's 
disease. It is proposed that treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in 
the diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer’s dementia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Memantine Merz and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Memantine Merz 
EMA/CHMP/589593/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
