26 January 2017  
EMA/CHMP/38153/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tadalafil Lilly 
tadalafil 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tadalafil Lilly, 
for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic 
hyperplasia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tadalafil Lilly will be available as film-coated tablets (2.5, 5, 10 and 20 mg). The active substance of 
Tadalafil Lilly is tadalafil, a selective, reversible inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-
specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) (ATC code: G04BE08).  
As a treatment for erectile dysfunction, when sexual stimulation causes the local release of nitric oxide, 
inhibition of PDE5 by tadalafil produces increased levels of cGMP in the corpus cavernosum. This results in 
smooth muscle relaxation and inflow of blood into the penile tissues, thereby producing an erection. This 
effect is also observed in the smooth muscle of the prostate, the bladder and their vascular supply. The 
resulting vascular relaxation increases blood perfusion which may be the mechanism by which symptoms 
of benign prostatic hyperplasia are reduced. 
The application for Tadalafil Lilly was an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product 
for Tadalafil Lilly is Cialis. 
The full indication for Tadalafil Lilly 2.5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg tablets is:  
“Treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult males.  
In order for tadalafil to be effective, sexual stimulation is required.  
Tadalafil Lilly is not indicated for use by women”. 
The full indication for the 5 mg tablets is:  
“Treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult males.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
In order for tadalafil to be effective for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, sexual stimulation is 
required.  
Treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult males.  
Tadalafil Lilly is not indicated for use by women”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tadalafil Lilly  
EMA/CHMP/38153/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
