European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 March 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/138637/2008  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
EXTAVIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): interferon beta-1b 
On  19  March  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Extavia, 250 microgram/ml, powder and solvent for solution for injection intended for treatment of: 
•  Patients with a single demyelinating event with an active inflammatory process, if it is severe 
enough to warrant treatment with intravenous corticosteroids, if alternative diagnoses have been 
excluded, and if they are determined to be at high risk of developing clinically definite multiple 
sclerosis. 
•  Patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and two or more relapses within the last two 
years. 
•  Patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis with active disease, evidenced by 
relapses. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
This  application  is  an  informed  consent  from  a  marketing  authorisation  holder  for  an  authorised 
medicinal  product  (Betaferon).  A  letter  of  consent  from  Bayer  Schering  Pharma  AG  has  been 
submitted by the Applicant, which authorizes the use of the pharmaceutical, pre-clinical and clinical 
documentation of Betaferon in support of this application.  
The active substance of Extavia is interferon beta-1b, a cytokine (ATC code: L03AB08). 
The  Applicant  has  confirmed  that  they  will  have  permanent  access  to  the  Betaferon  documentation.  
Therefore, no data have been submitted with this application, which only contains documentation for 
Module 1. 
In  the  studies  with  Betaferon  which  supported  this  application,  the  following  results  have  been 
obtained: in patients with relapsing remitting MS, interferon beta-1b was more effective than placebo 
in reducing the number of annual relapses.  
In patients with secondary progressive MS, one of the two studies showed a significant delay in the 
time to disability progression and in the time to becoming wheelchair bound. In the second trial, no 
delay  in  the  time  to  disability  progression  was  seen.  In  both  trials,  interferon  beta-1b  showed  a 
reduction in the number of clinical relapses.  
In  patients  with  a  single  demyelinating  event,  interferon  beta-1b  was  shown  to  reduce  the  risk  of 
developing clinically definite MS.  
The most common side effects are flu-like symptoms and injection site reactions. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 7418 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Extavia, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment of patients  with a single demyelinating event with an active 
inflammatory process, if it is severe enough to warrant treatment with intravenous corticosteroids, if 
alternative diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at high risk of developing 
clinically definite multiple sclerosis .Treatment of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
and two or more relapses within the last two years. Treatment of patients with secondary progressive 
multiple sclerosis with active disease, evidenced by relapses”. 
It  is  proposed  that  Extavia  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  Multiple 
Sclerosis. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Extavia and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/138637/2008 0.6, CURRENT 
Page 2/2 
