20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/293550/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cialis 
tadalafil 
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Cialis. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the 5 mg strength only as follows: 
”Treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult males including those 
with erectile dysfunction.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Cialis 5 mg will be as follows2: 
Treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult males. 
In order for tadalafil to be effective for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, sexual stimulation is 
required.  
Treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult males. 
CIALIS is not indicated for use by women. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
