28 January 2021     
EMA/CHMP/27606/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Oyavas 
bevacizumab 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Oyavas, 
intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, 
renal cell cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, and carcinoma of the 
cervix. The applicant for this medicinal product is STADA Arzneimittel AG. 
Oyavas will be available as 25 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Oyavas is bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC07). It binds to vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF), the key driver of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis, thereby inhibiting the binding of 
VEGF to its receptors on the surface of endothelial cells. Neutralising the biological activity of VEGF 
reduces vascularisation of tumours, normalises remaining tumour vasculature, and inhibits the formation 
of new tumour vasculature, thereby inhibiting tumour growth. 
Oyavas is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Avastin 
(bevacizumab), which was authorised in the EU on 12 January 2005. Data show that Oyavas has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Avastin (bevacizumab). More information on biosimilar 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Oyavas in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of 
adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum.  
Oyavas in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) status, please refer to section 5.1.  
Oyavas in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options including taxanes 
or anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. Patients who have received taxane and 
anthracycline containing regimens in the adjuvant setting within the last 12 months should be 
excluded from treatment with Oyavas in combination with capecitabine. For further information as 
to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1.  
Oyavas, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other 
than predominantly squamous cell histology.  
Oyavas, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer with 
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) activating mutations (see section 5.1).  
Oyavas in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients 
with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer.  
Oyavas, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front line treatment of 
adult patients with advanced (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 
stages III B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. (see 
section 5.1).  
Oyavas, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine or in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel, is indicated for treatment of adult patients with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who have not received prior therapy 
with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor-targeted agents.  
Oyavas, in combination with topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or 
primary peritoneal cancer who received no more than two prior chemotherapy regimens and who 
have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor-
targeted agents (see Section 5.1).  
Oyavas, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan in 
patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see section 5.1). 
It is proposed that Oyavas be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of antineoplastic medicinal 
products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Oyavas  
EMA/CHMP/27606/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
