22 September 2011
EMA/CHMP/614045/2011
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Dasselta
desloratadine
On 22 September 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets intended for relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and 
urticaria. The applicant for this medicinal product is Krka,d.d., Novo mesto. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.
The active substance of Dasselta is desloratadine, an “Other antihistamines for systemic use”
(R06AX27). Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral 
H1-receptor antagonist activity. After oral administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral 
histamine H1-receptors. The selectivity is achieved because the substance is excluded from the entry 
into the central nervous system.
Dasselta is a generic of Aerius which has been authorised in the EU since 15 January 2001. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dasselta and its bioequivalence with the reference 
product Aerius. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Dasselta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.
The approved indication is: “relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Dasselta and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
                                               
