18 October 2018 
EMA/CHMP/650838/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Namuscla 
mexiletine  
On 18 October 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Namuscla, 
intended for the treatment of myotonia in adults with certain hereditary muscle disorders. Namuscla was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 19 November 2014. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Lupin Europe GmbH. 
Namuscla will be available as capsules (167 mg). The active substance of Namuscla is mexiletine (ATC 
code: C01BB02) which reduces skeletal muscle hyperexcitability by blocking sodium channels. 
The benefits with Namuscla are its ability to reduce muscle stiffness and improve quality of life in patients 
with non-dystrophic myotonic disorders (sodium or chloride channelopathies). The most common side 
effects are abdominal pain, vertigo and insomnia; arrhythmias and DRESS (drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) may occur. 
The full indication is: “symptomatic treatment of myotonia in adult patients with non-dystrophic myotonic 
disorders.”  
It is proposed that Namuscla be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of non-dystrophic 
myotonic disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
