EMA/CHMP/55463/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Akeega 
niraparib / abiraterone acetate 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Akeega, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with 
BRCA 1/BRCA 2 mutations. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Akeega will be available as film-coated tablets containing fixed-dose combinations of 50 mg 
niraparib / 500 mg abiraterone acetate or 100 mg niraparib / 500 mg abiraterone acetate. The active 
substances of Akeega are niraparib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XK02) and abiraterone 
acetate, a hormone antagonist (L02BX03).  
Niraparib inhibits the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes PARP-1 and PARP-2, which play a 
role in DNA repair. The inhibition of PARP enzymatic activity and increased formation of PARP-DNA 
complexes result in DNA damage and tumour cell death. Abiraterone acetate is converted to abiraterone, 
which inhibits 17α-hydroxylase/C17,20-lyase (CYP17), an enzyme required for androgen synthesis. By 
inhibiting CYP17, abiraterone acetate inhibits the production of androgens in the testes, adrenal glands 
and prostate.  
The benefit of Akeega is its ability to delay disease progression compared to abiraterone acetate alone, as 
evaluated in a phase 3, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. The most common side 
effects are anaemia, hypertension, constipation, fatigue, nausea, thrombocytopenia, dyspnoea, back 
pain, decreased appetite, neutropenia, arthralgia, vomiting, hypokalaemia, dizziness, insomnia, 
hyperglycaemia and urinary tract infection.  
The full indication is: 
Akeega is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) and BRCA1/2 mutations (germline 
and/or somatic) in whom chemotherapy is not clinically indicated. 
Akeega should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of prostate cancer.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Akeega  
EMA/CHMP/55463/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
