15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/721208/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revolade 
eltrombopag 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Revolade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication to include use in adults with refractory immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) irrespective of time since initial diagnosis. 
For information, the full indication for Revolade will be as follows2:   
•  Revolade is indicated for the treatment of adult patients aged 1 year and above with primary 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) lasting 6 months or longer from diagnosis and who are 
refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins)(see sections 4.2 and 
5.1). 
•  Revolade  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  paediatric  patients  aged  1  year  and  above  with 
primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) lasting 6 months or longer from diagnosis and who are 
refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins)(see sections 4.2 and 5.1).  
•  Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the 
treatment of thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor 
preventing the initiation or limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
•  Revolade is indicated in adult patients with acquired severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) who were 
either refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and are unsuitable 
for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
