23 July 2020 
EMA/CHMP/392892/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ayvakyt 
avapritinib 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ayvakyt,3 
intended  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  unresectable  or  metastatic  gastrointestinal  stromal 
tumours (GIST) harbouring the platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) D842V mutation. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Blueprint Medicines (Netherlands) B.V. 
Ayvakyt will be available as film-coated tablets (100 mg, 200 mg and 300 mg). The active substance of 
Ayvakyt is avapritinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX18) designed to potently and 
selectively inhibit oncogenic KIT and PDGFRA mutants by targeting the active conformation of the kinase.  
The benefits with Ayvakyt are its ability to provide durable responses in patients with GIST harbouring 
the PDGFRA D842V mutation. The most common side effects (in ≥20% of patients) are nausea, fatigue, 
anaemia, periorbital oedema, face oedema, hyperbilirubinaemia, diarrhoea, vomiting, oedema peripheral, 
lacrimation increased, decreased appetite and memory impairment. 
The full indication is:  
AYVAKYT is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) harbouring the platelet-derived growth factor 
receptor alpha (PDGFRA) D842V mutation.  
It is proposed that Ayvakyt be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of anticancer 
therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ayvakyt  
EMA/CHMP/392892/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
