20 July 2017  
EMA/411074/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Symtuza 
darunavir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Symtuza, 
intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V. 
Symtuza is a fixed-dose combination of four active substances (darunavir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir alafenamide), and will be available as 800 mg/150 mg/200 mg/10 mg film-coated tablets (ATC 
code: not yet assigned). Darunavir inhibits the HIV protease and prevents the formation of mature 
infectious virus particles. Emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide are substrates and competitive 
inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA 
chain, resulting in chain termination. Cobicistat enhances the systemic exposure of darunavir and has no 
direct antiviral effect. 
The benefits with Symtuza are its ability to achieve effective antiretroviral response in a once daily, single 
pill regimen. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea, fatigue and rash.  
The full indication is:  
“Symtuza is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in 
adults and adolescents (aged 12 years and older with body weight at least 40 kg). 
Genotypic testing should guide the use of Symtuza (see sections 4.2 and 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Symtuza be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
