11 March 2021 
EMA/146391/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005737 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (COVID-19 vaccine 
(Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant])) 
What is COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and what is it used for? 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine for preventing coronavirus disease 2019  (COVID-19) in people 
aged 18  years and older. COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is made up of another virus (of the adenovirus family) that  has been 
modified to contain the gene for making a protein found on SARS-CoV-2.  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen does not contain  SARS-CoV-2 itself and cannot cause COVID-19.  
Detailed information about this  vaccine is available in the product information, which includes the 
package leaflet. 
How is COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen used? 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is given as a single injection, usually into the  muscle of the upper arm.  
Arrangements for the  supply of the vaccine will  be the  responsibility of national authorities. For more 
information about using COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the package leaflet or consult  a healthcare 
professional. 
How does COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen work? 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works by preparing the body to defend itself against COVID-19. It is made 
up of another virus (an adenovirus) that  has been modified to  contain the gene for making the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. This is a protein on the  SARS-CoV-2 virus which it needs to enter the body’s cells.  
The adenovirus passes the SARS-CoV-2 gene into the  vaccinated person’s cells. The cells can then  use 
the gene to produce the spike protein. The person’s immune system will recognise the spike protein as 
foreign and produce antibodies and activate T cells (white  blood cells) to  target it.  
Later, if the person comes into contact with  SARS-CoV-2 virus, the person’s immune system will 
recognise the spike protein on the virus and be ready to  defend the body against it. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The adenovirus in the vaccine cannot reproduce and does not cause disease.  
What benefits of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen have been shown in studies? 
Results from a clinical trial involving people in the United  States, South Africa and Latin American 
countries found that COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was effective at preventing COVID-19 in people from 
18 years of age. This study involved over 44,000  people. Half  received a single dose of the vaccine and 
half were given placebo (a dummy injection).  People did not know if they had been given COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen or placebo. 
The trial found a 67% reduction in the number of symptomatic COVID-19 cases after 2 weeks in 
people who received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (116 cases out of 19,630  people) compared with 
people given placebo (348  of 19,691  people). This means that  the vaccine had a 67%  efficacy. 
Can people who have already had COVID-19 be vaccinated with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen? 
There were no additional  side effects in 2,151 people who received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in the 
trials and had previously had COVID-19. 
There were not enough data from the trials to  conclude on how well COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works 
for people who have already had COVID-19.  
Can COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen reduce transmission of the virus from one 
person to another? 
The effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen on the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the community is 
not yet known. It is not yet known how much vaccinated people may still be able to carry and spread 
the virus. 
How long does protection from COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen last? 
Protection with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen starts around 14 days after vaccination but it  is not 
currently known how  long protection continues. The people vaccinated in the clinical trials will  continue 
to be followed for 2 years to gather more information on the duration of protection.  
Can children be vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen?  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is not currently recommended for use in children. EMA has agreed with  the 
company on a plan to conduct trials involving children at  a later stage. 
Can immunocompromised people be vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen? 
There are no data on immunocompromised people (people with weakened immune systems). Although 
immunocompromised people may not  respond as well to the vaccine, there are no particular safety 
concerns. Immunocompromised people can still be vaccinated as they may be at  higher risk from 
COVID-19.   
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (COVID-19 vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]))  
EMA/146391/2021 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
Can pregnant or breast-feeding women be vaccinated with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen?  
Animal studies do not  show any harmful effects of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in pregnancy. However, 
data on the use of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen during pregnancy are very limited.   
There are no studies of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen on breast-feeding but no risk from breast-feeding is 
expected. 
The decision on whether to use the vaccine in pregnant women should be made in close consultation 
with  a healthcare professional after considering the benefits and risks. 
Can people with allergies be vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen? 
People who have an allergy to one of the components of the  vaccine listed in section 6 of the package 
leaflet should not receive the vaccine.  
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) have occurred in people receiving the vaccine. One case of 
anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) has occurred in an ongoing study. As for all vaccines, COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen should be given under close medical supervision, with  the appropriate medical 
treatment available in case of allergic reactions. 
How well does COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen work for people of different 
ethnicities and genders? 
The clinical trials included people of different ethnicities  and genders. The vaccine worked across 
genders and ethnic groups. 
What are the risks associated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen? 
The most common side effects with  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in the trials were usually mild or 
moderate and got better within  1 or 2 days after vaccination. The most common side effects are pain 
at the injection site,  headache, tiredness, muscle pain and nausea. They affected more than 1 in 10 
people. 
Coughing, joint pain,  fever, chills and redness and swelling at injection side occurred in less than 1 in 
10 people. Sneezing, tremor, throat pain, rash, sweating, muscle weakness, pain in the arms and legs, 
backache, weakness and feeling generally unwell occurred in less than 1 in 100  people. Rare side 
effects (that  occurred in less than 1 in 1,000  people) are hypersensitivity (allergy) and itchy rash. 
Allergic reactions, including one case of anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction), have occurred in people 
receiving the vaccine. As for all vaccines, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should be given under close 
supervision with  appropriate medical treatment  available. 
Why has EMA recommended the authorisation of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen? 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen offers a good level of protection against COVID-19 which  is vital during  the 
current pandemic. The main trial showed that the  vaccine has around 67% efficacy. Most  side effects 
are mild to  moderate in severity and last  only a few days.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen’s benefits are 
greater than  its risks and it can be recommended for authorisation in the EU.   
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (COVID-19 vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]))  
EMA/146391/2021 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen has been recommended for ‘conditional marketing authorisation’. This 
means that there i s more evidence to c ome about the vaccine (see b elow), which the company is 
required to provide. The A gency will  review any new information that becomes a vailable and this 
overview will b e updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen? 
Since COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen has been recommended for conditional marketing authorisation, the 
company that  markets the vaccine will  provide results from ongoing clinical trials. These trials and 
additional studies will  provide information on how  long protection lasts, the vaccine’s effectiveness 
against new variants of the virus, how well it protects older people, people of different ethnicities, 
immunocompromised people, children and pregnant women, whether it prevents asymptomatic cases, 
and the effects and timing  of a second dose of the vaccine. 
In addition, independent studies of COVID-19 vaccines coordinated by EU authorities will  also give 
more information on the vaccine’s long-term safety and benefit in the  general population.  
The company will also carry out studies to provide additional assurance on the pharmaceutical quality 
and testing of the vaccine as the manufacturing continues to  be scaled up. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen?  
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet.  
A risk management plan for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is also in place and contains important 
information about the vaccine’s safety, how to collect further information and how to  minimise any 
potential risks. A summary of the RMP is available. 
Safety measures will be implemented for C OVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in line with  the EU safety 
monitoring plan for COVID-19 vaccines to ensure that new safety information is rapidly collected and 
analysed. The  company that  markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will  provide monthly safety reports. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are continuously monitored. 
Suspected side e ffects reported with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are carefully evaluated and any 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was recommended by EMA’s human medicines committee (CHMP) on 11 
March 2021  for a conditional marketing authorisation  valid throughout the EU.  The European 
Commission will  issue a decision shortly.  
Detailed recommendations for the use  of this product are described in the product i nformation, which 
will be available in all official EU languages after a decision on the marketing authorisation has been 
issued by the European Commission.
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (COVID-19 vaccine (Ad26.COV2-S [recombinant]))  
EMA/146391/2021 
Page 4/4 
