medicinal product is ORPHELIA Pharma SAS. 
Ivozall 
clofarabine 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
19 September 2019 
EMA/CHMP/494372/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
On 19 September 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ivozall, intended 
for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in paediatric patients. The applicant for this 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
patients ≤ 21 years old at initial diagnosis.”  
“Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in paediatric patients who have relapsed or are 
refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no other treatment option 
anticipated to result in a durable response. Safety and efficacy have been assessed in studies of 
Ivozall will be available as a 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Ivozall is 
clofarabine, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01BB06). Its anti-tumour activity is believed to be due to 
the inhibition of DNA polymerase αnd of ribonucleotide reductase and the disruption of mitochondrial 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
Ivozall is a generic of Evoltra, which has been authorised in the EU since 29 May 2006. Since Ivozall and 
Evoltra are administered intravenously, both are fully bioavailable and a bioequivalence study was not 
required. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
It is proposed that Ivozall be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of patients with acute 
European Commission. 
The full indication is:  
membrane integrity. 
leukaemias. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
