23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/595241/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vegzelma 
bevacizumab 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vegzelma, intended for 
the treatment  of  carcinoma  of  the  colon  or  rectum,  breast  cancer, non-small cell  lung  cancer,  renal  cell 
cancer,  epithelial  ovarian,  fallopian  tube  or  primary  peritoneal  cancer,  and  carcinoma  of  the  cervix.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Vegzelma  will  be  available  as  25 mg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion.  The  active  substance  of 
Vegzelma is bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC07) which binds to vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF), thereby inhibiting the binding of VEGF to its receptors on the surface of endothelial 
cells.  Neutralising  the  biological  activity  of  VEGF  regresses  the  vascularisation  of  tumours,  normalises 
remaining tumour  vasculature,  and  inhibits  the  formation  of  new  tumour  vasculature,  thereby  inhibiting 
tumour growth. 
Vegzelma  is  a  biosimilar  medicinal  product.  It  is  highly  similar  to  the  reference  product  Avastin 
(bevacizumab),  which  was  authorised  in  the  EU  on  12  January  2005.  Data  show  that  Vegzelma  has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Avastin. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is: 
VEGZELMA in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment 
of adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
VEGZELMA in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to human epidermal growth factor receptor 
2 (HER2) status, please refer to section 5.1. 
VEGZELMA in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with  metastatic  breast  cancer  in  whom  treatment  with  other  chemotherapy  options  including 
taxanes or anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. Patients who have received taxane and 
anthracycline-containing  regimens  in  the  adjuvant  setting  within  the  last  12  months  should  be 
excluded  from  treatment  with  VEGZELMA  in  combination  with  capecitabine.  For  further 
information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1. 
VEGZELMA, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of 
adult  patients  with  unresectable  advanced,  metastatic  or  recurrent  non-small  cell  lung  cancer 
(NSCLC) other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
VEGZELMA, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable  advanced,  metastatic  or  recurrent  non-squamous  NSCLC  with  Epidermal  Growth 
Factor Receptor (EGFR) activating mutations (see section 5.1). 
VEGZELMA  in  combination  with  interferon  alfa-2a  is  indicated  for  first  line  treatment  of  adult 
patients with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
VEGZELMA, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line treatment 
of  adult  patients  with  advanced  (International  Federation  of  Gynecology  and  Obstetrics  (FIGO) 
stages III B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. (See 
section 5.1). 
VEGZELMA, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine or in combination with carboplatin 
and  paclitaxel,  is  indicated  for  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  first  recurrence  of  platinum-
sensitive  epithelial  ovarian,  fallopian  tube  or  primary  peritoneal  cancer  who  have  not  received 
prior therapy with bevacizumab or other vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors or 
VEGF receptor–targeted agents. 
VEGZELMA  in  combination  with  paclitaxel,  topotecan,  or  pegylated  liposomal  doxorubicin  is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who received no more than two prior chemotherapy 
regimens and who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or 
VEGF receptor–targeted agents (see section 5.1). 
VEGZELMA, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan 
in patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see section 5.1). 
Vegzelma must be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of  antineoplastic 
medicinal products. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
the European Commission. 
Vegzelma  
EMA/CHMP/595241/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
