28 January 2021 
EMA/CHMP/593869/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sogroya 
somapacitan 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sogroya2, 
intended for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
Sogroya will be available as 10 mg/1.5 ml solution for injection. The active substance of Sogroya is 
somapacitan, a somatropin agonist (ATC code: H01AC07) that acts directly via the growth 
hormone-receptor and/or indirectly via insulin-like growth factor-I produced in tissues. 
The benefits with Sogroya in adults deficient in growth hormone are its ability to normalise body 
composition (i.e. decreased body fat mass, increased lean body mass) and metabolism. The most 
common side effects are headache, peripheral oedema and adrenocortical insufficiency. 
The full indication is:  
Sogroya is indicated for the replacement of endogenous growth hormone (GH) in adults with 
growth hormone deficiency (AGHD).  
Sogroya should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of adult 
patients with growth hormone deficiency (e.g. endocrinologists). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
