23 July 2015 
EMEA/CHMP/448694/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zerbaxa 
ceftolozane / tazobactam 
On 23 July 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zerbaxa, 
intended for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections, acute pyelonephritis and 
complicated urinary tract infections. The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme 
Limited. 
Zerbaxa will be available as a powder for solution for infusion containing 1 g ceftolozane and 0.5 g 
tazobactam. The active substances of Zerbaxa are ceftolozane / tazobactam, a cephalosporin and a beta-
lactamase inhibitor, respectively (ATC code: J01DI54). Ceftolozane exerts bactericidal activity through 
binding to important penicillin-binding proteins, resulting in inhibition of bacterial cell-wall synthesis and 
subsequent cell death. Tazobactam does not exert any antibacterial activity but protects ceftolozane 
against hydrolysis. 
Zerbaxa, through its antimicrobial action, has been shown to be effective at treating the above-
mentioned infections. The most common side effects are nausea, headache, constipation, diarrhoea and 
pyrexia which were generally mild or moderate in severity. 
The full indication is:  
"Zerbaxa is indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adults (see section 5.1): 
•  Complicated intra-abdominal infections (see section 4.4); 
•  Acute pyelonephritis; 
•  Complicated urinary tract infections (see section 4.4). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Zerbaxa  
EMA/CHMP/448694/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
