19 December 2013 
EMA/CHMP/592024/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Izba 
travoprost  
On 19 December 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Izba, 30 µg/ml, Eye drops, solution intended for the decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in adult 
patients with ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Alcon Laboratories (UK) Ltd. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Izba is travoprost, an anti-glaucoma medicinal product (S01E E04). It is a 
prostaglandin F2αanalogue; a selective agonist for prostanoid receptors, which is reported to reduce 
intraocular pressure by increasing the uveoscleral outflow. 
The benefits with Izba are its ability to reduce elevated intraocular pressure with similar intraocular 
pressure lowering efficacy to that achieved by the 40 µg/ml concentration. The most common side 
effects are eye hyperaemia, eye irritation, eye pain, eye pruritus, eyelids pruritus and foreign body 
sensation in eyes. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Izba will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in adult patients with ocular 
hypertension or open angle glaucoma".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Izba and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Izba 
EMA/CHMP/592024/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
