17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/460994/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Obiltoxaximab SFL 
obiltoxaximab 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Obiltoxaximab SFL3, intended for the treatment or post-exposure prophylaxis of 
inhalational anthrax. The applicant for this medicinal product is SFL Pharmaceuticals Deutschland GmbH. 
Obiltoxaximab SFL will be available as 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Obiltoxaximab SFL is obiltoxaximab (ATC code: J06BB22), a monoclonal antibody that binds 
to the protective antigen (PA) of Bacillus anthracis toxin. Obiltoxaximab thereby inhibits the binding of PA 
to its cellular receptors, preventing the intracellular entry of the toxin components responsible for the 
pathogenic effects of anthrax toxin. 
The benefits with Obiltoxaximab SFL are its ability to neutralise the PA component of anthrax toxin, which 
led to increased survival in animal challenge studies.  The most common side effects in healthy human 
volunteers receiving obiltoxaximab are headache, pruritus, and urticaria.  Hypersensitivity reactions 
(including rash) occurred in approximately 10% of exposed subjects and anaphylaxis occurred in <1% of 
exposed subjects.  The safety of obiltoxaximab has been studied only in healthy volunteers.  
The full indication is:  
Obiltoxaximab SFL is indicated in combination with appropriate antibacterial drugs in all age 
groups for treatment of inhalational anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Obiltoxaximab SFL is indicated in all age groups for post-exposure prophylaxis of inhalational 
anthrax when alternative therapies are not appropriate or are not available (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Obiltoxaximab SFL  
EMA/CHMP/460994/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
