28 April 2016  
EMA/CHMP/268284/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ongentys 
opicapone 
On 28 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ongentys, 
indicated as adjunctive therapy in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease and motor fluctuations. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Bial-Portela & Cª, S.A. 
Ongentys will be available as hard capsules (25 mg and 50 mg). The active substance of Ongentys is 
opicapone, a peripheral, selective and reversible COMT inhibitor (ATC code: N04) that increases L-DOPA 
plasma levels when used concomitantly with L-DOPA/DOPA-decarboxylase inhibitors (DDCIs). 
The benefits with Ongentys are its ability to decrease off-time (time when patients are severely restricted 
by their symptoms) and to increase on-time without troublesome dyskinesia. The most common side 
effects are dyskinesia, constipation, insomnia, dry mouth and dizziness. 
The full indication is:  
“Ongentys is indicated as adjunctive therapy to preparations of levodopa/DOPA decarboxylase inhibitors 
(DDCIs) in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations who cannot be 
stabilised on those combinations.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days from adoption of the 
opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
