25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/593246/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Brimica Genuair 
aclidinium bromide/ formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
On 25 September 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Brimica Genuair, 340 µg / 12 µg, inhalation powder intended as a maintenance bronchodilator 
treatment for airflow obstruction and relief of symptoms in adult patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). The applicant for this medicinal product is Almirall S.A. They may request 
a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing 
of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Brimica Genuair are aclidinium bromide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate, 
aclidinium is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist and formoterol is a long-acting β 2-adrenergic agonist 
that inhibits acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction (ATC code: R03AL05). 
The benefits with Brimica Genuair are its ability to relieve the symptoms experienced by patients with 
moderate to severe COPD in terms of lung function and quality of life (QoL). The most common side 
effects are nasopharyngitis and headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Brimica Genuair will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Brimica Genuair and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
