15 December 2016 
EMA/CHMP/849400/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Keytruda 
pembrolizumab 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Keytruda. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung 
carcinoma (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥50% tumour proportion score 
(TPS) with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations". 
The CHMP also adopted minor changes to an existing indication as follows: 2 
“KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC 
in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥1% TPS and who have received at least one prior 
chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations should also have 
received targeted approved therapy for these mutations prior to before receiving KEYTRUDA.” 
 For information, the full indications for Keytruda will be as follows:  
“KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung 
carcinoma (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥50% tumour proportion score 
(TPS) with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC in 
adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥1% TPS and who have received at least one prior 
chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations should also have 
received targeted therapy before receiving KEYTRUDA.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/849400/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
