20 February 2014 
EMA/87173/2014  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pregabalin Pfizer 
pregabalin 
On 20 February 2014 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pregabalin 
Pfizer 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, 225 mg and 300 mg capsules, intended for 
the treatment of epilepsy, neuropathic pain and Generalised Anxiety Disorder. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Pregabalin Pfizer is pregabalin, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) analogue 
antiepileptic medicinal product (ATC code N03AX16). Pregabalin modulates neuronal excitability in the 
central nervous system.   
The benefits with Pregabalin Pfizer are its ability to reduce pain in central and peripheral neuropathic 
pain models, reduce seizure frequency as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial seizures and 
improve symptoms of Generalised Anxiety Disorder. The most common side effects are dizziness and 
somnolence. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pregabalin Pfizer will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indications are:  
Neuropathic pain 
Pregabalin Pfizer is indicated for the treatment of peripheral and central neuropathic pain in adults. 
Epilepsy 
Pregabalin  Pfizer  is  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  adults  with  partial  seizures  with  or  without 
secondary generalisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
Generalised Anxiety Disorder 
Pregabalin Pfizer is indicated for the treatment of Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Pregabalin Pfizer and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Pregabalin Pfizer 
EMA/87173/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
