26 March 2015  
EMA/CHMP/156546/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lenvima 
lenvatinib 
On 26 March 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lenvima, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with differentiated (papillary/follicular/Hürthle cell) thyroid 
carcinoma. Lenvima was designated an orphan medicinal product on 26 April 2013. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Eisai Europe Ltd. 
Lenvima will be available as 4 mg and 10 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Lenvima is 
lenvatinib, a protein kinase inhibitors (ATC code: L01XE29).  Lenvatinib selectively inhibits the kinase 
activities of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors in addition to other proangiogenic and 
oncogenic pathway-related receptor tyrosine kinases. By blocking these enzymes, lenvatinib can cut 
off the blood supply that keeps cancer cells growing and reduce the growth of cancer cells. 
The benefits with Lenvima are its ability to improve progression-free survival among patients with 
radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancer in comparison with placebo. The most common 
side effects are hypertension, diarrhoea, decreased appetite, weight decreased, fatigue, nausea, 
proteinuria, stomatitis, vomiting, dysphonia, headache, and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome (PPE). 
The full indication is: “the treatment of adult patients with progressive, locally advanced or metastatic, 
differentiated (papillary/follicular/Hürthle cell) thyroid carcinoma (DTC), refractory to radioactive 
iodine (RAI)”. 
It is proposed that Lenvima treatment should be initiated and supervised by a healthcare professional 
experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
