20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/268353/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tyruko 
natalizumab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tyruko, intended for the 
treatment of multiple sclerosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. 
Tyruko will be available as 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Tyruko is 
natalizumab,  a  selective  immunosuppressive  medicinal  product  (ATC  code:  L04AA23).  It  acts  mainly  by 
preventing  transmigration  of  mononuclear  leukocytes  into  inflamed  parenchymal  tissue,  reducing  the 
inflammatory activity present in the central nervous system in patients with multiple sclerosis.  
Tyruko is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Tysabri (natalizumab), 
which was authorised in the EU on 27 June 2006. Data show that Tyruko has comparable quality, safety 
and efficacy to Tysabri. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Tyruko  is  indicated  as  single  disease  modifying  therapy  in  adults  with  highly  active  relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) for the following patient groups: 
• 
Patients  with highly  active  disease  despite  a  full  and  adequate  course of  treatment  with  at 
least  one  disease  modifying  therapy  (DMT)  (for  exceptions  and  information  about  washout 
periods see sections 4.4 and 5.1)  
or 
• 
Patients  with  rapidly  evolving  severe  RRMS  defined by  2  or  more  disabling  relapses  in  one 
year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
Tyruko  should  be  prescribed  by  specialised  physicians  experienced  in  the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of 
neurological conditions, in centres with timely access to MRI. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
the European Commission. 
Tyruko  
EMA/CHMP/268353/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
