28 May 2020 
EMA/270403/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Apixaban Accord 
apixaban 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Apixaban Accord, 
intended for the treatment and prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients and for 
the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Apixaban Accord will be available as 2.5 mg and 5 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Apixaban 
Accord is apixaban, an anticoagulant, (ATC code: B01AF02) which acts as a direct and highly selective 
inhibitor of factor Xa. 
Apixaban Accord is a generic of Eliquis, which has been authorised in the EU since 18 May 2011. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Apixaban Accord, and its bioequivalence to the reference product 
Eliquis. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective 
hip or knee replacement surgery. 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age 
≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II). 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
