European Medicines Agency 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMA/824754/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
BONDRONAT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): Ibandronic acid 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Bondronat.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Roche Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted new contraindications for Bondronat.  
The following contraindication was added for both the 50 mg film-coated tablets and the concentrate 
for solution for infusion: “hypocalcaemia” 
In  addition  the  following  contraindication  has  been  added  for  50  mg  film-coated  tablets  only: 
“- Abnormalities of the oesophagus which delay oesophageal emptying such as stricture or achalasia 
  - Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full contraindications for Bondronat concentrate for solution for infusion will be 
as follows****: 
“Hypocalcaemia (see section 4.4). 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients. 
Caution is to be taken in patients with known hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates. 
Bondronat should not be used in children.” 
For  information,  the  full  contraindications  for  Bondronat  50  mg  film-coated  tablets  will  be  as 
follows****: 
“-Abnormalities  of  the  oesophagus  which  delay  oesophageal  emptying  such  as  stricture  or 
achalasia 
- Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes 
- Hypocalcaemia 
- Hypersensitivity to ibandronic acid or to any of the excipients  
See also section 4.4. 
Bondronat should not be used in children.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
****  The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
****  The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
