23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/587767/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Scemblix 
asciminib 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Scemblix2, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid 
leukaemia in chronic phase who have previously been treated with two or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Scemblix will be available as 20 mg and 40 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Scemblix is 
asciminib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01EA), which is a potent inhibitor of BCR::ABL1 kinase 
activity.  
The benefit of Scemblix is its ability to induce a major molecular response (MMR) at 24 and 96 weeks, as 
evaluated in a multicentre, randomised, active-controlled and open-label phase III study. The most 
common side effects are musculoskeletal pain, upper respiratory tract infections, thrombocytopenia, 
fatigue, headache, arthralgia, increased pancreatic enzymes, abdominal pain, diarrhoea and nausea. 
The full indication is: 
Scemblix is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive 
chronic myeloid leukaemia in chronic phase (Ph+ CML-CP) previously treated with two or more 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors. 
Scemblix should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with 
leukaemia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
