22 October 2015  
EMA/CHMP/670627/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cosentyx 
secukinumab 
On 22 October the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted two positive opinions 
recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cosentyx. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted two new indications as follows: 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of active 
psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous disease modifying anti rheumatic 
drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of active ankylosing spondylitis in adults who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
For information, the full indications for Cosentyx will be as follows2: 
“Plaque psoriasis 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are 
candidates for systemic therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the 
treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate (see 
section 5.1). 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of active ankylosing spondylitis in adults who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Cosentyx  
EMA/CHMP/670627/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
