24 October 2013 
EMA/CHMP/590387/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Opsumit 
macitentan 
On 24 October2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opsumit 
10mg film coated tablet intended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult 
patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III.  
Opsumit was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 29 September 2011. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Actelion Registration Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Opsumit is macitentan an orally active, dual Endothelin (ET) A and EndothelinB 
receptor antagonist, ATC code: C02KX04. 
Macitentan displays high affinity and sustained occupancy of the ET receptors in human pulmonary 
arterial smooth muscle cells. This prevents endothelin-mediated activation of second messenger 
systems that result in vasoconstriction and smooth muscle cell proliferation. 
The benefits with Opsumit are its ability to provide a clinically relevant effect of macitentan 10 mg to 
reduce the risk of occurrence of the primary endpoint in the study population. The primary endpoint of 
the Seraphin pivotal study was the time to first occurrence of a clinical worsening event, up to the end 
of double-blind treatment, defined as death, or atrial septostomy, or lung transplantation, or initiation 
of intravenous (i.v.) or subcutaneous (s.c.) prostanoids, or other worsening of PAH. 
The treatment effect with macitentan on the primary endpoint was established early and was sustained 
during treatment (median duration of more than 2 years). For the 10 mg dose it corresponded to an 
overall relative risk reduction of 45% (absolute risk reduction of 16%) and a number-needed-to-treat 
(NNT) of 6 patients (95% CLs 4.48, 10.80) to avoid one event at 2 years. 
The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis (14.0%), headache (13.6%) and anaemia (13.2%). 
The majority of adverse events are mild to moderate in intensity. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Opsumit will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. The 
approved indication is:  
“Opsumit, as monotherapy or in combination, is indicated for the long-term treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH) in adult patients of WHO Functional Class (FC) II to III. 
Efficacy has been shown in a PAH population including idiopathic and heritable PAH, PAH associated 
with connective tissue disorders, and PAH associated with corrected simple congenital heart disease 
(see section 5.1)".  
It is proposed that the treatment should only be initiated and monitored by a physician experienced in 
the treatment of PAH. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Opsumit and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Opsumit 
EMA/CHMP/590387/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
