19 April 2012 
EMA/CHMP/259852/2012  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Forxiga 
dapagliflozin 
On 19 April 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Forxiga, 
5 mg, 10 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb/AstraZeneca EEIG. They may request a 
re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Forxiga is dapagliflozin, drugs used in diabetes, other blood glucose lowering 
drugs, excl. insulins (A10BX09). Forxiga is a competitive, reversible, selective and orally active 
inhibitor of the human sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) which reduces renal glucose re-
absorption leading to urinary glucose excretion. 
The benefits with Forxiga are its ability to lower blood glucose by increasing urinary glucose excretion. 
The most common side effects are hypoglycaemia (when used with a sulphonylurea or insulin), urinary 
tract infection, genital tract infection, dyslipidaemia, dysuria and polyuria. Specific safety issues 
regarding a tumour imbalance in dapagliflozin treated patients, the limited data available in patients > 
75 years old, the use in patients at risk of volume depletion, hypotension and electrolytes imbalances 
have been evaluated and addressed in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and in the Risk 
Management Plan. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Forxiga will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Forxiga is indicated in adults aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus to improve glycaemic control as: 
Monotherapy 
When diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control in patients for whom use of 
metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Add-on combination therapy 
In combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products including insulin, when these, together 
with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for 
available data on different combinations).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Forxiga and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Forxiga  
EMA/CHMP/259852/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
