23 April 2015  
EMA/CHMP/238545/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion  1 (initial authorisation) 
Duloxetine Mylan 
Duloxetine 
On 23 April 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Duloxetine Mylan, 
intended for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, and 
generalised anxiety disorder in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product is Generics (UK) Limited. 
Duloxetine Mylan will be available as 30 mg and 60 mg gastro-resistant capsules. The active substance of 
Duloxetine Mylan is duloxetine, a combined serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibitor. It 
weakly inhibits dopamine re-uptake with no significant affinity for histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic 
and adrenergic receptors (ATC code: N06AX21). 
Duloxetine Mylan is a generic of Cymbalta, which has been authorised in the EU since 17 December 2004. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Duloxetine Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: “Treatment of major depressive disorder. Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic 
pain. Treatment of generalised anxiety disorder. Duloxetine Mylan is indicated in adults. For further 
information see section 5.1.".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
