14 October 2021 
EMA/411659/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Trodelvy 
sacituzumab govitecan 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Trodelvy, 
intended for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. 
Trodelvy was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences Ireland UC. 
Trodelvy will be available as a 200 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Trodelvy is sacituzumab govitecan, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01FX17). It 
combines a humanised monoclonal antibody, which binds to Trop-2-expressing cancer cells, and a linked 
cytotoxic moiety SN-38 (govitecan), which inhibits topoisomerase I, preventing DNA repair and leading to 
apoptosis and cell death.  
The benefits of Trodelvy are its improved progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) which had relapsed 
after at least two prior chemotherapies, when compared with treatment of physician’s choice in a 
phase 3, multicentre, open-label, randomised study. 
The most common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea, neutropenia, fatigue, alopecia, anaemia, vomiting, 
constipation, decreased appetite, cough, and abdominal pain. 
The full indication is: 
Trodelvy as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) who have received two or more prior systemic 
therapies, including at least one of them for advanced disease. 
Trodelvy must only be prescribed to patients by healthcare professionals experienced in the use of cancer 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Trodelvy  
EMA/411659/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
