European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
 London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/575411/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VALDOXAN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): agomelatine 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Valdoxan, 25 mg, film-coated tablet, intended for: treatment of major depressive episodes in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Les Laboratoires Servier. 
The  active  substance  of  Valdoxan  is  agomelatine,  an  antidepressant  medicinal  product  (ATC  Code: 
N06AX22) which has shown to be a melatonin agonist (MT1 and MT2 receptors) and a serotonin 5-
HT2C antagonist, although with low affinity. 
The  benefits  with  Valdoxan  are  its  superiority  over  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  depression  in  both 
short-term and long-term studies, although not in all trials, as well as its different safety profile (lack 
of  clinically  relevant  weight  gain,  low  risk  of  sexual  dysfunction,  low  incidence  of  gastro-intestinal 
reaction,  absence  of  discontinuation  symptoms  and  overall  incidence  rates  of  adverse  events  not 
different  from  placebo).  Valdoxan  showed  statistically  significant  superiority  over  placebo  in  the 
short-term treatment of depression, although not in all trials. 
Six placebo controlled trials have been performed to investigate the short term efficacy of Valdoxan in 
major  depressive  disorder:  two  flexible  dose  studies  and  four  fixed  dose  studies.  At  the  end  of 
treatment (over 6 or 8 weeks), significant efficacy of agomelatine 25-50 mg was demonstrated in 3 of 
the six short-term double-blind placebo-controlled studies. 
A meta-analysis of the six pivotal short-term studies resulted in an overall estimate of the difference 
between agomelatine and placebo of 1.5 on the HAM-D with a 95% confidence interval [0.80, 2.22]. 
Studies also showed that agomelatine 25 mg is probably less efficacious than other antidepressants. 
With regard to relapse prevention, one study failed to demonstrate a difference in time to relapse. The 
maintenance  of  antidepressant  efficacy  was  demonstrated  in  a  second  relapse  prevention  study. 
Patients responding to 8/10-weeks of acute treatment with open-label Valdoxan 25-50 mg once daily 
were  randomised  to  either Valdoxan 25-50 mg  once  daily  or  placebo  for  further  6-months. 
Valdoxan 25-50 mg once daily demonstrated a statistically significant superiority compared to placebo 
on the primary outcome measure, the prevention of depressive relapse, as measured by time to relapse. 
The  incidence  of  relapse  during  the  6-months  double-blind  follow  up  period  was  22%  and  47%  for 
Valdoxan and placebo, respectively. 
The  most  common  side  effects  observed  are  headache,  dizziness,  somnolence,  insomnia,  migraine, 
nausea, diarrhoea, constipation, upper abdominal pain, hyperhydrosis, back pain, fatigue and anxiety. 
Of note, abnormalities of liver function tests (transaminase elevation > 3xULN), were also common. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatitis  (cytolytic)  and  transaminase  elevation  >  10  x  ULN  have  been  rarely  reported.  Therefore, 
monitoring of liver function tests is required during treatment at all doses. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Valdoxan, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of major depressive episodes in adults”. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Valdoxan  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
