17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/484813/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rivaroxaban Accord 
rivaroxaban 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rivaroxaban 
Accord, an anticoagulant intended for the treatment and prevention of venous thromboembolism, 
pulmonary embolism, and the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adults with various risk factors 
for such events. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Rivaroxaban Accord will be available as 2.5-mg, 10-mg, 15-mg and 20-mg film-coated tablets. The active 
substance of Rivaroxaban Accord is rivaroxaban, an antithrombotic agent (ATC code: B01AF01) which 
acts as a direct factor Xa inhibitor. 
Rivaroxaban Accord is a generic of Xarelto, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 September 
2008. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Rivaroxaban Accord and its bioequivalence to 
the reference product Xarelto. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Rivaroxaban Accord, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus 
ticlopidine, is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS) with elevated cardiac biomarkers (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1) (2.5 mg) 
Co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in adult patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic peripheral artery disease 
(PAD) at high risk of ischaemic events (2.5 mg). 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee 
replacement surgery (10 mg). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients) (10, 15 and 20 
mg). 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (15 and 20 mg). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Rivaroxaban Accord  
EMA/CHMP/484813/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
