24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/575990/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Praxbind 
idarucizumab 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Praxbind, a 
specific reversal agent for dabigatran, intended for use when rapid reversal of the anticoagulant effects of 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) is required in adult patients.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. 
Praxbind will be available as 2.5g/50 mL solution for injection/infusion. The active substance of Praxbind 
is idarucizumab, a specific reversal agent for dabigatran (ATC code: V03AB). It is a humanised 
monoclonal antibody fragment that binds to dabigatran and its metabolites with very high affinity and 
neutralises their anticoagulant effect. It is used when rapid reversal of dabigatran effect is required.  
The benefits with Praxbind are its ability to reverse the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran within 5 
minutes of administration, that its action lasts long enough to allow clinical emergency management of 
patients if needed and that it does not interfere with routine treatment in case of bleeding or urgent 
surgery.  
Mild symptoms suggestive of hypersensitivity have been reported but a causal relationship to 
idarucizumab could not be established.  
The full indication is: 
“Praxbind is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran and is indicated in adult patients treated with 
Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate) when rapid reversal of its anticoagulant effects is required: 
• 
• 
For emergency surgery/urgent procedures  
In life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.” 
It is proposed that Praxbind be restricted to hospital use only. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Praxbind  
EMA/CHMP/575990/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
