26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/213223/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Libtayo 
cemiplimab 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Libtayo, 
intended for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Regeneron Ireland U.C. 
Libtayo will be available as a 350 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Libtayo is 
cemiplimab, an antineoplastic agent that binds to the programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) receptor and blocks 
its interaction with its ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2.  
The benefits with Libtayo are its ability to reduce tumour size and to prevent progression of the tumour for 
longer compared to historical controls from the literature in adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. The most common side effects are rash, fatigue, diarrhoea 
and pruritus. The most common immune-related side effects are hypothyroidism, pneumonitis, skin adverse 
reactions, hyperthyroidism and hepatitis. 
The full indication is: “Libtayo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic or locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma who are not candidates for curative 
surgery or curative radiation”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
