19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/373851/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Levetiracetam ratiopharm  
levetiracetam 
On 19 May 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Levetiracetam Ratiopharm 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg film-coated tablets and 
Levetiracetam Ratiopharm 100 mg/ml oral solution intended for the treatment of epilepsy. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion 
The active substance of Levetiracetam ratiopharm is levetiracetam, an antiepileptic agent (ATC code: 
N03AX14). Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative chemically unrelated to existing antiepileptic 
active substances. The mechanism of action of levetiracetam still remains to be fully elucidated but 
appears to be different from the mechanisms of current antiepileptic medicinal products. In vitro and in 
vivo experiments suggest that levetiracetam does not alter basic cell characteristics and normal 
neurotransmission.  
Levetiracetam Ratiopharm is a generic of Keppra, which has been authorised in the EU since 29 
September 2000. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Levetiracetam Ratiopharm and 
its bioequivalence with Keppra. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here.  
The approved indication is as follows:  
“Monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy.  
Levetiracetam Ratiopharm is indicated as adjunctive therapy: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy.  
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy.  
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of data submitted, considers there to be a favourable benefit to risk balance 
for Levetiracetam Ratiopharm and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Levetiracetam ratiopharm  
EMA/373851/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
