European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 January 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/40340/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PROTOPIC 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tacrolimus 
On  22  January  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Protopic.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Astellas Pharma GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: “Maintenance treatment of moderate to severe atopic 
dermatitis  for  the  prevention  of  flares  and  the  prolongation  of  flare-free  intervals  in  patients 
experiencing a high frequency of disease exacerbations (i.e. occurring 4 or more times per year) who 
have had an initial response to a maximum of 6 weeks treatment of twice daily tacrolimus ointment 
(lesions cleared, almost cleared or mildly affected).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Protopic will be as follows***: 
“Treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults who are not adequately responsive to or 
are  intolerant  of  conventional  therapies  such  as  topical  corticosteroids.  Treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe  atopic  dermatitis  in  children  (2  years  of  age  and  above)  who  failed  to  respond  adequately  to 
conventional therapies such as topical corticosteroids. 
Maintenance treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis for the prevention of flares and 
the  prolongation  of  flare-free  intervals  in  patients  experiencing  a  high  frequency  of  disease 
exacerbations  (i.e.  occurring  4  or  more  times  per  year)  who  have  had  an  initial  response  to  a 
maximum  of  6  weeks  treatment  of  twice  daily  tacrolimus  ointment  (lesions  cleared,  almost 
cleared or mildly affected).” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
