26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/503859/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Abseamed 
epoetin alfa 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Abseamed. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Medice Arzneimittel Pütter GmbH & Co. 
KG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Abseamed is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic anaemia (haemoglobin concentration of ≤ 
10 g/dl) in adults with low- or intermediate-1-risk primary myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) who 
have low serum erythropoietin (< 200 mU/ml).”  
For information, the full indications for Abseamed will be as follows:2  
“Abseamed is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic renal 
failure (CRF): 
• 
• 
in adults and children aged 1 to 18 years on haemodialysis and adult patients on peritoneal 
dialysis (see section 4.4). 
in adults with renal insufficiency not yet undergoing dialysis for the treatment of severe anaemia 
of renal origin accompanied by clinical symptoms in patients (see section 4.4).  
Abseamed is indicated in adults receiving chemotherapy for solid tumours, malignant lymphoma or 
multiple myeloma, and at risk of transfusion as assessed by the patient’s general status (e.g. 
cardiovascular status, pre-existing anaemia at the start of chemotherapy) for the treatment of 
anaemia and reduction of transfusion requirements. 
Abseamed is indicated in adults in a predonation programme to increase the yield of autologous 
blood. Treatment should only be given to patients with moderate anaemia (haemoglobin [Hb] 
concentration range between 10 to 13 g/dl [6.2 to 8.1 mmol/l], no iron deficiency), if blood saving 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
procedures are not available or insufficient when the scheduled major elective surgery requires a 
large volume of blood (4 or more units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males). 
Abseamed is indicated for non-iron deficient adults prior to major elective orthopaedic surgery, 
having a high perceived risk for transfusion complications to reduce exposure to allogeneic blood 
transfusions. Use should be restricted to patients with moderate anaemia (e.g. haemoglobin 
concentration range between 10 to 13 g/dl or 6.2 to 8.1 mmol/l) who do not have an autologous 
predonation programme available and with expected moderate blood loss (900 to 1,800 ml).  
Abseamed is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic anaemia (haemoglobin 
concentration of ≤ 10 g/dl) in adults with low- or intermediate-1-risk primary 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) who have low serum erythropoietin (< 200 mU/ml).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Abseamed  
EMA/CHMP/503859/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
