15 September 2016 
EMA/CHMP/596525/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Zentiva k.s. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva contains the active substances emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil, antivirals for systemic use (ATC code: J05AR03). It will be available as 200 mg/245 mg 
film-coated tablets. Emtricitabine is a nucleoside analogue of cytidine while tenofovir is a nucleoside 
monophosphate (nucleotide) analogue of adenosine monophosphate. Both are substrates and competitive 
inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA chain, 
resulting in chain termination.  
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a generic of Truvada which has been authorised in the EU since 
21 February 2005. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Truvada. A question and answer document on 
generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: "Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated in antiretroviral combination 
therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults". It is proposed that Emtricitabine-Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
