14 December 2017 
EMA/CHMP/813650/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Crysvita 
burosumab 
On 14 December 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Crysvita, intended for the treatment of X-linked hypophosphataemia. Crysvita was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 15 October 2014. The applicant for this medicinal product is Kyowa Kirin 
Limited. 
Crysvita will be available as a solution for injection (10 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml and 30 mg/ml). The active 
substance of Crysvita is burosumab, a human monoclonal antibody that binds to and inhibits the activity 
of fibroblast growth factor 23 (ATC code: M05BX05). Inhibiting the activity of elevated serum fibroblast 
growth factor 23 in X-linked hypophosphataemia reduces the loss of phosphate from the kidney and other 
metabolic abnormalities, which are considered to be causative of the disease’s bone changes. 
The benefits with Crysvita are its ability to reduce the loss of phosphate from the kidney, to improve 
abnormally low serum phosphate concentrations and to reduce the severity of rickets as shown in x-rays. 
The most common side effects are injection site reactions, headache, and pain in extremities. 
The full indication is: "Crysvita is indicated for the treatment of X-linked hypophosphataemia with 
radiographic evidence of bone disease in children 1 year of age and older and adolescents with growing 
skeletons." 
It is proposed that Crysvita be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of patients with 
metabolic bone diseases.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
