23 October 2014 
EMA/CHMP/654571/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Duavive 
Conjugated Oestrogens / Bazedoxifene 
On 23 October 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Duavive, 
0.45 mg/20 mg modified-release tablets intended for the treatment of oestrogen deficiency symptoms 
in postmenopausal women with a uterus (with at least 12 months since the last menses) for whom 
treatment with progestin-containing therapy is not appropriate. The experience treating women older 
than 65 years is limited.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Duavive are conjugated oestrogens and bazedoxifene.  
The benefits with Duavive are following: 
Conjugated estrogens substitute for the loss of oestrogen production in menopausal women, and 
alleviate menopausal symptoms. As oestrogens promote the growth of the endometrium, unopposed 
oestrogens increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and cancer. The addition of bazedoxifene, 
acting as an oestrogen receptor antagonist in the uterus, reduces the oestrogen-induced risk of 
endometrial hyperplasia. 
The most common side effect is abdominal pain, occurring in more than 10% of patients in clinical 
trials.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Duavive will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “the treatment of oestrogen deficiency symptoms in postmenopausal 
women with a uterus (with at least 12 months since the last menses) for whom treatment with 
progestin-containing therapy is not appropriate. The experience treating women older than 65 years is 
limited".  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Duavive and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Duavive 
EMA/CHMP/654571/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
