22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/210566/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Koselugo 
selumetinib 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Koselugo3, intended for the treatment of paediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) 
plexiform neurofibromas (PN). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Koselugo will be available as 10 mg and 25 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Koselugo is 
selumetinib, a selective inhibitor of mitogen activated protein kinase kinases 1 and 2 (MEK 1/2) (ATC 
code: L01EE04). MEK inhibition can block the proliferation and survival of tumour cells in which the RAF-
MEK-ERK pathway is activated. 
The benefits of Koselugo are its ability to reduce the volume of plexiform neurofibromas and thereby 
improve clinical outcomes such as pain intensity, mobility and/or disfigurement in patients. The most 
common side effects are vomiting, rash, increased blood creatine phosphokinase, diarrhoea, nausea, dry 
skin, asthenic events, pyrexia, acneiform rash, hypoalbuminaemia, stomatitis, increased aspartate 
aminotransferase and paronychia. 
The full indication is: 
Koselugo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic, inoperable plexiform 
neurofibromas (PN) in paediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) aged 3 years and 
above. 
Koselugo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and the treatment of patients 
with NF1 related tumours. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Koselugo  
EMA/CHMP/210566/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
