26 March 2015  
EMA/CHMP/169908/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Akynzeo 
netupitant / palonosetron 
On 26 March 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Akynzeo, 
indicated for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly 
emetogenic cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy and prevention of acute and delayed nausea and 
vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. 
  The applicant for this medicinal product is Helsinn Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 
Akynzeo (an antiemetic and antinauseant, ATC code A04) will be available as a 300 mg / 0.50 mg hard 
capsule. The active substances of Akynzeo (in a fixed dose combination) are netupitant and 
palonosetron. Netupitant is a selective antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors. 
Palonosetron is a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. 5-HT3 receptors have been demonstrated to selectively 
stimulate the emetic response. 
Delayed emesis has been largely associated with the activation of tachykinin family neurokinin 1 (NK1) 
receptors (broadly distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems) by substance P. 
The benefit with Akynzeo is its ability to prevent acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated 
with highly and moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. The addition of netupitant to 
palonosetron leads to an increased therapeutic activity of this fixed dose combination particularly in 
the delayed phase of emesis. Simplification of therapy by decreasing the number of individual dose 
units to be taken by the patient may furthermore improve patient compliance. 
The most common side effects are headache, constipation and fatigue. 
The full indication is: "Akynzeo is indicated in adults for the: 
•  Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic 
cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
•  Prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic 
cancer chemotherapy.” 
It is proposed that Akynzeo be subject to medical prescription. Detailed recommendations for the use 
of this product will be described in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC), which will be 
published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made available in all official European 
Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
 
