28 January 2021                
EMA/CHMP/60776/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Thiotepa Riemser 
thiotepa 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Thiotepa 
Riemser, intended for use as a conditioning treatment before haematopoietic progenitor cell 
transplantation. The applicant for this medicinal product is Riemser Pharma GmbH. 
Thiotepa Riemser will be available as 15 mg and 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The active substance of Thiotepa Riemser is thiotepa, a  cell cycle-phase independent, non-specific 
alkylating antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01AC01. 
Thiotepa Riemser is a generic of Tepadina, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 March 2010. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Thiotepa Riemser. Since Thiotepa Riemser is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference 
product Tepadina was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is: 
Thiotepa Riemser is indicated, in combination with other chemotherapy medicinal products:  
•  with or without total body irradiation (TBI), as conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic or 
autologous haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in haematological diseases in 
adult and paediatric patients; 
•  when high dose chemotherapy with HPCT support is appropriate for the treatment of solid 
tumours in adult and paediatric patients. 
Thiotepa Riemser administration should be supervised by physicians experienced in conditioning 
treatment.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Thiotepa Riemser  
EMA/CHMP/60776/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
