16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/438991/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Artesunate Amivas 
artesunate 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Artesunate 
Amivas2, intended for initial treatment of severe malaria in adults and children. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Amivas Ireland Ltd. 
Artesunate Amivas will be available as 110 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection. The active 
substance of Artesunate Amivas is artesunate, an antiprotozoal (ATC code: P01BE03) which is expected 
to generate an unstable organic free radical followed by alkylation. The free radical binds to malarial 
proteins, triggering the destruction of parasite membranes. 
The main benefit of Artesunate Amivas is improved in-hospital survival for patients suffering severe 
malaria. The most common side effects consist of delayed post-treatment red blood cell lysis 
(breakdown), anaemia, and reduced reticulocyte count. 
The full indication is: 
Artesunate Amivas is indicated for the initial treatment of severe malaria in adults and children 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antimalarial agents. 
Artesunate Amivas should be used to treat patients with severe malaria only after consultation with a 
physician with appropriate experience in the management of malaria.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
