15 March 2012 
EMA/193393/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zoledronic Acid Teva 
Zoledronic acid  
On 15 March 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zoledronic 
Acid Teva 4mg/5ml  solution for infusion, intended for the prevention of skeletal related events in adult 
patients with advanced malignancies involving bone and for the treatment of adult patients with 
tumour-induced hypercalcaemia. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of this generic medical product is zoledronic acid, a bisphosphonate (M05BA08), 
that acts primarily on bone. It is an inhibitor of osteoclastic bone resorption. The selective action of 
bisphosphonates on bone is based on their high affinity for mineralised bone, but the precise molecular 
mechanism leading to the inhibition of osteoclastic activity is still unclear. In addition to being a potent 
inhibitor of bone resorption, zoledronic acid also possesses several anti-tumour properties that could 
contribute to its overall efficacy in the treatment of metastatic bone disease. 
Patients  with  tumors  can  have  high  levels  of  calcium  in  their  blood,  released  from  the  bones.  By 
preventing  the  breakdown  of  bones,  Zoledronic  acid  also  helps  to  reduce  the  amount  of  calcium 
released into the blood. 
The most common side effects are fever, myalgia, flu-like symptoms, arthralgia and headache.  
Zoledronic acid Teva is a generic of Zometa, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 April 2005. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zoledronic acid Teva. This product is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable; therefore, a bioequivalence study versus the 
reference product Zometa was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zoledronic Acid Teva will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
 
prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological  fractures,  spinal  compression,  radiation  or 
surgery  to  bone,  or  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia)  in  adult  patients  with  advanced 
malignancies involving bone  
 
treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zoledronic Acid Teva and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Zoledronic Acid Teva 
EMA/193393/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
