19 December 2013 
EMA/CHMP/684313/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mirvaso 
Brimonidine tartrate 
On  19  December  2013,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Mirvaso,  3  mg/g,  gel,  intended  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  facial  erythema  of  rosacea  in  adult 
patients.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Galderma  International.  They  may  request  a  re-
examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Mirvaso, brimonidine tartrate, under the ATC group ‘other dermatologicals’, is 
a relatively selective alpha-2 adrenergic agonist, with potent vasoconstrictive / vasostabilising activity. 
Erythema  of  rosacea  is  linked  to  permanent  vasodilatation  of  small  vessels.  Reduction  of  facial 
erythema is obtained by vasoconstriction mediated by influence on postsynaptic smooth muscle alpha-
2 adrenergic receptors stimulation. 
The  benefits  with  Mirvaso  are  its  ability  to  demonstrate  statistical  superiority  (p<0.001)  over  vehicle 
gel with respect to rapid initial onset of a clinically meaningful effect (1-Grade Composite Success for 
CEA  and  PSA)  after  the  first  application  at  30  minutes  on  Day    1,  and  to  achievement  of  a  clinically 
meaningful effect (1-Grade Composite Success for CEA and PSA)  at hours 3, 6, 9, and 12 on Day 29 
this has been demonstrated in two randomised, vehicle controlled clinical trials, which were identical in 
design. The most common local adverse events associated with topical use of brimonidine tartrate are 
erythema, pruritus, flushing and skin burning sensation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mirvaso will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Mirvaso is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of facial erythema of 
rosacea in adult patients."  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Mirvaso and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Mirvaso 
EMA/CHMP/684313/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
