25 June 2020 
EMA/339403/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Gencebok 
caffeine citrate 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Gencebok, intended for 
the treatment of primary apnoea of premature newborns. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Gennisium Pharma. 
Gencebok will be available as 10 mg/ml solution for infusion. The active substance of Gencebok is caffeine 
citrate, a xanthine derivative (ATC code: N06BC01) which acts through the adenosine receptors as a 
respiratory stimulant. 
The benefits with Gencebok are its ability to decrease the frequency of apnoeic episodes, increase 
respiratory rate and blood pH, decrease pCO2, and improve the function of the respiratory muscles in 
premature infants with recurrent apnoea. The most common side effects are related to central nervous 
system stimulation and include irritability, tachycardia and hypertension. 
Gencebok is a hybrid medicine2 of Peyona which has been authorised in the EU since 2 July 2009. Gencebok 
contains the same active substance as Peyona, but it is available in a different strength. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Gencebok. Since Gencebok is administered 
intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence (BE) study versus the reference product Peyona 
was not required. As the maintenance dose can be given by mouth and the strength of Gencebok is different 
from that of Peyona, the company also provided justification for not performing a BE study in this context, 
which was considered acceptable. 
The full indication is:  
Treatment of primary apnoea of premature newborns.  
Gencebok should be prescribed by physicians experienced in neonatal intensive care.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Gencebok  
EMA/339403/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
