26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/232262/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Lynparza 
olaparib 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lynparza. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to one of the existing indications for Lynparza tablets as follows:2 
“Ovarian cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the: 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) 
BRCA1/2-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian 
tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following 
completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to 
platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Breast cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline 
BRCA1/2-mutations, who have HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Patients 
should have previously been treated with an anthracycline and a taxane in the (neo)adjuvant or 
metastatic setting unless patients were not suitable for these treatments (see section 5.1). 
Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should also have progressed on or after 
prior endocrine therapy, or be considered unsuitable for endocrine therapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Lynparza  
EMA/CHMP/232262/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
