24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/384050/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
VPRIV 
velaglucerase alfa  
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product VPRIV,  
200 U, 400 U, powder for solution for infusion, intended for the treatment for long-term enzyme 
replacement therapy (ERT) in patients with type 1 Gaucher disease. VPRIV was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 9 June 2010. The applicant for this medicinal product is Shire 
Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of VPRIV is velaglucerase alfa, Other alimentary tract and metabolism products – 
enzymes (ATC Code: A16AB10) is a purified recombinant form of the naturally occurring human 
lysosomal enzyme glucocerebrosidase that cleaves glucocerebroside to glucose and ceramide. It was 
developed as a long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) for patients with type 1 Gaucher disease. 
The benefits with VPRIV are its ability to manage the symptoms of Gaucher disease, such as that it 
increases haemoglobin and platelet count, and decreases in liver and spleen volumes in patients with 
type 1 Gaucher disease. The most common side effects are infusion related adverse events, e.g. 
headache, dizziness and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for VPRIV will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “VPRIV is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) in 
patients with type 1 Gaucher disease”. It is proposed that VPRIV treatment should be supervised by a 
physician experienced in the management of patients with Gaucher disease. Home administration 
under the supervision of a healthcare professional may be considered only for patients who have 
received at least three infusions and were tolerating their infusions well. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for VPRIV and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
VPRIV  
EMA/CHMP/384050/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
