26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/223053/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ultomiris 
ravulizumab 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ultomiris, intended for 
the treatment of adult patients with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). Ultomiris was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 30 May 2016. The applicant for this medicinal product is Alexion Europe 
SAS. 
Ultomiris will be available as a 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Ultomiris 
is ravulizumab, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA43). Ravulizumab is a monoclonal 
antibody that specifically binds to the complement protein C5, thereby inhibiting its cleavage to C5a and C5b 
and preventing the generation of C5b-9. Ravulizumab preserves the early components of complement 
activation that are essential for opsonisation of microorganisms and clearance of immune complexes. 
The benefits of Ultomiris are its ability to reduce and maintain control of haemolysis in patients with PNH. Its 
most common side effects are headache, nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection. 
The full indication is:  
“ULTOMIRIS is indicated in the treatment of adult patients with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria 
(PNH): 
• 
• 
in patients with haemolysis with clinical symptom(s) indicative of high disease activity  
in patients who are clinically stable after having been treated with eculizumab for at least the past 6 
months (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Ultomiris be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of patients with 
haematological disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
