26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/170114/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Esperoct 
turoctocog alfa pegol 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Esperoct, intended for 
the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 12 years and above with haemophilia A (congenital 
factor VIII deficiency). Esperoct was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 April 2012. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
Esperoct will be available as a powder and solvent for solution for injection (500, 1000, 1500, 2000 and 
3000 International Unit (IU)). The active substance of Esperoct is turoctocog alfa pegol, a recombinant 
human factor VIII which replaces the missing coagulation factor VIII needed for effective haemostasis (ATC 
code: B02BD02). 
The benefits of Esperoct are its ability to prevent and control bleeding when used prophylactically or 
on-demand and during surgical procedures in adult and adolescent patients with haemophilia A. The most 
common side effects are rash, erythema, pruritus, injection site reactions. 
The full indication is: “treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 12 years and above with 
haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency)”. It is proposed that Esperoct be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
