European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/594954/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ENBREL 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): etanercept 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Enbrel.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Wyeth 
Europa Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 8 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Enbrel will be as follows***: 
R
heumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel  in  combinatio
n  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
nbrel  can  be  given  as  monotherapy  in  case  of  intolerance  to  methotrexate  or  when  continued 
E
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
nbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
E
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
nbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
E
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
P
olyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of active polyarticular juvenile
 idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents from the age 
of 4 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Enbrel has not been studied in children aged less than 4 years. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous disease-
modifying  antirheumatic  drug  therapy  has  been  inadequate.    Enbrel  has  been  shown  to  improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including cyclosporine, methotrexate or 
PUVA (see Section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 8 years 
who  are  inadequately  controlled  by,  or  are  intolerant  to,  other  systemic  therapies  or 
phototherapies. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
