22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/27724/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion  1 (initial authorisation) 
Saxenda 
liraglutide 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Saxenda, 6 mg/ml, Solution for injection in pre-filled pen intended for weight management. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Saxenda is liraglutide, a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist 
also used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes (A10BX07). The mechanism by which liraglutide 
treatment results in weight loss is not entirely understood, but liraglutide appears to regulate 
appetite by increasing feelings of fullness and satiety while lowering feelings of hunger and 
prospective food consumption. Liraglutide also leads to an enhancement of glucose-dependent 
insulin secretion and a reduction of glucagon release. 
The main benefit with Saxenda is its ability to achieve a clinically relevant weight loss. The most 
common side effects are gastrointestinal adverse reactions (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and 
constipation). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Saxenda will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
"Saxenda is indicated as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity for 
weight management in adult patients with an initial Body Mass Index (BMI) of  
•  ≥ 30 kg/m² (obese), or 
•  ≥ 27 kg/m² to < 30 kg/m² (overweight) in the presence of at least one weight-related 
comorbidity such as dysglycaemia (pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus), hypertension, 
dyslipidaemia or obstructive sleep apnoea. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Treatment with Saxenda should be discontinued after 12 weeks on the 3.0 mg/day dose if patients 
have not lost at least 5% of their initial body weight." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Saxenda and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Saxenda  
EMA/CHMP/27724/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
