21 November 2013 
EMA/627632/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Abraxane 
paclitaxel 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Abraxane. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celgene 
Europe Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Abraxane in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Abraxane will be as follows2: 
Abraxane monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients who 
have failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline containing 
therapy is not indicated. 
Abraxane in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult 
patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
