26 April 2023 
EMA/CHMP/169349/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lytgobi 
futibatinib 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lytgobi3, intended for the second-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma 
characterized by fusion or rearrangements of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Taiho Pharma Netherlands B.V. 
Lytgobi will be available as a 4 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Lytgobi is futibatinib, a 
protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EN04), which is an irreversible kinase inhibitor of FGFR 1, 2, 3 and 
4.  
The benefit of Lytgobi is its ability to increase the partial response rate after first-line treatment, which is 
maintained for a median of 10 months.  
The most common side effects are hyperphosphataemia, nail disorders, constipation, alopecia, diarrhoea, 
dry mouth, fatigue, nausea, dry skin, increased aspartate aminotransferase, abdominal pain, stomatitis, 
vomiting, palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome, arthralgia and decreased appetite. 
The full indication is: 
Lytgobi monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or 
rearrangement that have progressed after at least one prior line of systemic therapy. 
Lytgobi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the in the diagnosis and treatment of patients 
with biliary tract cancer.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lytgobi  
EMA/CHMP/169349/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
