European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/582270/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
STELARA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): ustekinumab 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Stelara, 
45  mg  or  90  mg  powder  for  solution  for  injection,  intended  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
plaque psoriasis in adults who have failed to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or who are 
intolerant  to  other  systemic  therapies  including  cyclosporine,  methotrexate  and  psoralen  plus  ultra-
violet A light [PUVA]). The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The  active  substance  of  Stelara  is  ustekinumab,  an  interleukin  inhibitor  (ATC  code:  L04AC)  and  a 
fully  humanised  monoclonal  antibody,  composed  of  an  IgG1  heavy  chain  isotype  and  a  kappa  light 
chain  isotype,  that  binds  with  high  affinity  and  specificity  to  the  p40  protein  subunit  of  the  human 
cytokines  interleukin  (IL)-12  and  IL-23.  Ustekinumab  neutralises  IL-12  and  IL-23  bioactivity 
preventing  their  binding  to  the  IL-12Rβ1  receptor  protein  expressed  on  the  surface  of  natural  killer 
(NK) or T cells. Ustekinumab prevents IL-12 and IL-23 contributions to immune cell activation, such 
as  intracellular  signaling  and  cytokine  secretion  and  is  therefore  believed  to  interrupt  signaling  and 
cytokine cascades that are central to psoriasis pathology. 
The  benefits  with  Stelara  are  that  its  efficacy  in  PASI  (Psoriasis  Area  and  Severity  Index),  PGA 
(Physician’s Global Assessment) and DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index) scores was statistically 
significantly superior to placebo and etanercept in plaque psoriasis after 12 weeks of treatment. The 
proportion of patients achieving PASI 75 response at week 12 was 72.2% and 65% on 45 mg and 90 
mg respectively versus 56.8% on etanercept. Approximately 35 to 50% of subjects achieved a PASI 
90 response at week 12. Similar efficacy with ustekinumab treatment was observed when efficacy was 
assessed using the PGA. 
Re-treatment  was  effective  and  a  response  was  maintained  with  continued  treatment  (through  week 
76). The availability of an injection which can be self-administered and which is required only once 
every  12  weeks  would  benefit  patients  with  severe  disease  who  need  immunosuppressive  therapy.  
The  lack  of  identified  cumulative  toxicity  with  biological  therapies  to  date  (in  contrast  to  PUVA, 
methotrexate etc.) offers additional benefits.  
In  common  with  other  immunosuppressives,  the  risks  associated  with  potentially  life-long  life-long 
immunosuppression  exist.  The  most  common  side  effects  seen  in  the  trials  included  infection 
(particularly  upper  respiratory  tract  infections),  malignancies,  antibody  formation  and  psychiatric 
disorders.  Risks  pertaining  to  infections,  malignancies,  hypersensitivity  reactions,  depression, 
concomitant  immunosuppressive  medication,  pregnancy,  lactation,  vaccinations  and  co-morbidities 
(such  as  marked  renal  or  hepatic  impairment)  are  detailed  in  the  SPC.  In  addition,  Stelara  is 
contraindicated in patients with a clinically important, active infection. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Stelara, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis  in  adults  who  have 
failed  to  respond  to,  or  who  have  a  contraindication  to,  or  who  are  intolerant  to  other  systemic 
therapies including cyclosporine, methotrexate and psoralen plus ultra-violet A light [PUVA]).” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Stelara and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
