25 June 2020 
EMA/CHMP/308597/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kaftrio 
elexacaftor / tezacaftor / ivacaftor 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kaftrio2, 
intended for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients aged 12 years and older who are homozygous for 
the F508del mutation or heterozygous for the F508del in the CFTR gene with a minimal function mutation 
(MF) (corresponding to either no production of a CFTR protein or a CFTR protein that is not responsive to 
ivacaftor and tezacaftor/ivacaftor in vitro).  
Kaftrio was initially reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. However, during 
assessment, this could no longer be achieved, since the applicant requested a 3-month clock stop 
ultimately reduced to 2 months. Therefore, the conditions for accelerated assessment could not be met.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Vertex Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Limited. 
Kaftrio will be available as film-coated tablets containing 100 mg elexacaftor, 50 mg tezacaftor and 
75 mg ivacaftor (ATC code: R07AX). Elexacaftor and tezacaftor are CFTR correctors and facilitate the 
cellular processing and trafficking of F508del-CFTR, leading to an increase in the amount of CFTR protein, 
while ivacaftor increases channel gating of the CFTR protein at the cell surface. The combined effect of 
elexacaftor, tezacaftor and ivacaftor results in increased CFTR activity as measured by CFTR chloride 
transport.  
The benefits with Kaftrio are its ability to provide significant improvements in lung function as measured 
by ppFEV1 (percent predicted FEV1) (14.3 percentage point reduction in heterozygous MF and 10 
percentage point reduction in homozygous patients) and to reduce sweat chloride (a reduction of 41.8 
mmol/L in MF and 45.1 mmol/L in homozygous patients). 
The most common adverse reactions were headache (17.3%), diarrhoea (12.9%) and upper respiratory 
tract infection (11.9%).  
The full indication is:  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Kaftrio is indicated in a combination regimen with ivacaftor 150 mg tablets for the treatment of 
cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients aged 12 years and older who are homozygous for the F508del 
mutation in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene or 
heterozygous for F508del in the CFTR gene with a minimal function (MF) mutation. 
It is proposed that Kaftrio is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Kaftrio  
EMA/CHMP/308597/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
