26 January 2017  
EMA/CHMP/39045/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Amgevita 
adalimumab 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Amgevita, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
Amgevita will be available as a solution for injection (20 mg and 40 mg). The active substance of Amgevita 
is adalimumab, a tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AB04). Adalimumab binds 
specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its interaction with the p55 and 
p75 cell surface TNF receptors. Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or 
regulated by TNFα, including changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leucocyte migration 
(ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1). 
Amgevita is a biosimilar medicinal product that is highly similar to the reference product Humira 
(adalimumab), which was authorised in the EU on 8 September 2003. Studies have shown that Amgevita 
has comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Humira.  
The full indication is:  
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Amgevita in combination with methotrexate is indicated for:  
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the response 
to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been inadequate.  
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously treated 
with methotrexate.  
Amgevita can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with methotrexate is inappropriate.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Amgevita reduces the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by x-ray and improves physical 
function, when given in combination with methotrexate.  
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Amgevita in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). AMGEVITA can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate (for the 
efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than 2 
years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see section 
5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS)  
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an 
inadequate response to conventional therapy.  
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS  
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 
Psoriatic arthritis  
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. AMGEVITA 
reduces the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by x-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and improves physical function.  
Psoriasis 
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy.  
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 
4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy 
and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) 
in adult patients with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy. 
Crohn’s disease 
Amgevita  
EMA/CHMP/39045/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
  
  
Amgevita is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who 
have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease  
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy, a corticosteroid, and an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies.  
Ulcerative colitis  
Amgevita is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine 
(6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Amgevita is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of 
corticosteroid-sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate.” 
Amgevita treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of conditions for which Amgevita is indicated. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Amgevita  
EMA/CHMP/39045/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
  
  
 
