20 February 2014 
EMA/CHMP/90545/2014 – Corr(*) 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vokanamet 
Canagliflozin/metformin 
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Vokanamet, 50mg/850mg, 50mg/1000mg, 150mg/850 mg and 150mg/1000mg, film-coated tablets 
intended for the treatment type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Vokanamet are canagliflozin and metformin, blood glucose-lowering agents, 
ATC code: A10BD16. Vokanamet combines two compounds, which have different modes of action. 
Canagliflozin works by blocking a protein in the kidney called the human sodium-glucose co-
transporter-2 (SGLT2). This reduces glucose re-absorption in the kidney leading to glucose excretion in 
the urine, thereby lowering levels of glucose in the blood of patients with type 2 diabetes. Metformin 
works by suppressing glucose production by the liver. 
The benefits with Vokanamet are its ability to improve glycaemic control. Canagliflozin added to 
metformin has been shown to confer an additional clinically relevant improvement in glycaemic control, 
thus justifying the combination of these substances. 
The most common side effects of metformin are gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of appetite. The most common side effects of canagliflozin are 
hypoglycaemia (when used in combination with insulin or a sulphonylurea), vulvovaginal candidiasis, 
urinary tract infection, and polyuria or pollakiuria. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vokanamet will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: " treatment of adults aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
● 
● 
● 
in patients not adequately controlled on their maximally tolerated doses of metformin alone 
in patients on their maximally tolerated doses of metformin along with other glucose-lowering 
medicinal products including insulin, when these do not provide adequate glycaemic control  
in patients already being treated with the combination of canagliflozin and metformin as 
separate tablets." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Vokanamet and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
(*) The correction concerns the deletion of the following sentence “It is proposed that Vokanamet be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of type 2 diabetes”.  
Vokanamet 
EMA/CHMP/90545/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
