17 September 2020  
EMA/CHMP/490929/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Lynparza 
olaparib 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lynparza. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted an extension of an existing indication and a new indication for Lynparza tablets as 
follows:2 
Ovarian cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the: 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) BRCA1/2-
mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary 
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line 
platinum-based chemotherapy. 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) 
to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Lynparza in combination with bevacizumab is indicated for the: 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) 
high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in 
response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy in combination with bevacizumab and whose cancer is associated 
with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) positive status defined by either a 
BRCA1/2 mutation and/or genomic instability (see section 5.1).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Breast cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline BRCA1/2-
mutations, who have HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Patients should 
have previously been treated with an anthracycline and a taxane in the (neo)adjuvant or metastatic 
setting unless patients were not suitable for these treatments (see section 5.1).  
Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should also have progressed on or after 
prior endocrine therapy, or be considered unsuitable for endocrine therapy. 
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with germline 
BRCA1/2-mutations who have metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and have not progressed 
after a minimum of 16 weeks of platinum treatment within a first-line chemotherapy regimen. 
Prostate cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer and BRCA1/2-mutations (germline and/or somatic) 
who have progressed following prior therapy that included a new hormonal agent. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Lynparza  
EMA/CHMP/490929/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
