22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/724015/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dificlir 
fidaxomicin 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Dificlir, 200mg, film-coated tablet intended in adults for the treatment of Clostridium difficile infections 
(CDI) also known as C. difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD). The applicant for this medicinal product 
is FGK Representative Service GmbH. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Dificlir is fidaxomicin, an antibacterial agent belonging to the macrocyclic class 
of antibacterials. Fidaxomicin is bactericidal and inhibits RNA synthesis by bacterial RNA polymerase. It 
interferes with RNA polymerase at a distinct site from that of rifamycins.  
The benefits with Dificlir are its ability to cure populations suffering CDI.  The efficacy of fidaxomicin 
was investigated in two Phase 3 trials which enrolled a total of 1164 subjects with CDI. In the pooled 
clinical trials, fidaxomicin was shown to be associated with a non inferior cure rate as compared to 
vancomycin.  The most common side effects are nausea, vomiting and constipation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Dificlir will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “DIFICLIR is indicated in adults for the treatment of Clostridium difficile 
infections (CDI) also known as C. difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) (see section 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidelines on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
It is proposed that Dificlir be subject to medical prescription. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Dificlir and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Dificlir 
EMA/CHMP/724015/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
