European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/384861/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
XOLAIR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): omalizubam 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Xolair. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. 
The  CHMP  adopted  an  extension  to  the  current  indication  for  children  between  6  and  less  than  12 
years of age. The complete indication is as follows:  
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older) 
Xolair  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  to  improve  asthma  control  in  patients  with  severe 
persistent  allergic  asthma  who  have  a  positive  skin  test  or  in  vitro  reactivity  to  a  perennial 
aeroallergen  and  who  have  reduced  lung  function  (FEV1  <80%)  as  well  as  frequent  daytime 
symptoms  or  night-time  awakenings  and  who  have  had  multiple  documented  severe  asthma 
exacerbations despite daily high-dose inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-
agonist. 
Children (6 to <12 years of age) 
Xolair  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  to  improve  asthma  control  in  patients  with  severe 
persistent  allergic  asthma  who  have  a  positive  skin  test  or  in  vitro  reactivity  to  a  perennial 
aeroallergen  and  frequent  daytime  symptoms  or  night-time  awakenings  and  who  have  had 
multiple  documented  severe  asthma  exacerbations  despite  daily  high-dose 
inhaled 
corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-agonist. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                      
