13 December 2018  
EMA/CHMP/848829/2018 Corr1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion2 (initial authorisation) 
Trecondi 
treosulfan 
On 13 December 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Trecondi, 
intended for the conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(alloHSCT). Trecondi was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 23 February 2004. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is medac Gesellschaft fur klinische Spezialpraparate mbH. 
Trecondi will be available as a 50 mg/ml powder for solution for infusion. The active substance of Trecondi 
is treosulfan, a prodrug of an alkylating agent with cytotoxic activity against haematopoietic precursor cells 
(ATC code: L01AB02). 
The benefit with Trecondi is the increase of the rate of event-free survival after 2 years. The most common 
side effects are infections (bacterial, viral, fungal), stomatitis/mucositis, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and 
abdominal pain. 
The full indication is: “Treosulfan in combination with fludarabine is indicated as part of conditioning 
treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT) in adult patients with 
malignant and non-malignant diseases, and in paediatric patients older than one month with malignant 
diseases.” 
It is proposed that Trecondi be prescribed by physicians experienced in conditioning treatment followed by 
alloHSCT. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 The word “injection” has been deleted 
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
