16 February 2012 
EMA/CHMP/56995/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sancuso 
granisetron 
On  16  February  2012,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Sancuso  3.1  mg/24  h  transdermal  patch  intended  for  the  prevention  of  nausea  and  vomiting 
associated  with  moderately  or  highly  emetogenic  chemotherapy.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is ProStrakan Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of 
the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Sancuso  is  granisetron,  an  antiemetic  and  antinauseant  serotonin 
antagonist  (ATC  Code:  A04AA02).  Granisetron 
is  a  highly  selective  antagonist  of  5-
hydroxytryptamine (5HT3 receptors). Pharmacological studies have demonstrated that granisetron 
is  effective  against  nausea  and  vomiting  as  a  result  of  cytostatic  therapy.  Radioligand  binding 
studies  have  demonstrated  that  granisetron  has  negligible  affinity  for  other  receptor  types, 
including 5HT1, 5HT2, 5HT4 and dopamine D2 binding sites. 
The benefits with Sancuso as compared to an oral formulation of granisetron are its ability to 
provide effective doses of granisetron for the course of the chemotherapy with single administration 
of the patch removing the need for repeated oral doses for patients who have difficulties to 
swallow. The most common side effects are constipation, headache and nausea; mild irritant and 
hypersensitivity reactions are possible at the application side. A Pharmacovigilance plan for Sancuso 
will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: SANCUSO transdermal patch is indicated in adults for the prevention of 
nausea and vomiting associated with moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy, for a planned 
duration of 3 to 5 consecutive days, where oral anti-emetic administration is complicated by factors 
making swallowing difficult. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of 
product  characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  European  public  assessment 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
report  (EPAR)  and  made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sancuso and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Sancuso 
EMA/CHMP/56995/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
