26 January 2017  
EMA/CHMP/39488/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rolufta 
Umeclidinium bromide 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rolufta, 
intended for maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading 
Services Limited. 
Rolufta will be available as an inhalation powder (55 microgram). The active substance of Rolufta is 
umeclidinium bromide, a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist that exerts bronchodilatory activity by 
competitively inhibiting the binding of acetylcholine to muscarinic cholinergic receptors on airway smooth 
muscle cells (ATC code: R03BB07). 
The benefits with Rolufta are its ability to improve the trough FEV 1 (lung function endpoint) and COPD 
symptoms as measured by TDI SGRQ score responders. The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis 
and upper respiratory tract infection. Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events with Rolufta are a potential 
safety concern. Therefore cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events have been included as an important 
potential risk in the risk management plan and the applicant will conduct a post-authorisation safety study 
to further investigate this risk. 
The application for Rolufta was an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product 
for Rolufta is Incruse. 
The full indication is:  
"Rolufta is indicated as a maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)". 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
