19 December 2013 
EMA/CHMP/771324/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sirturo 
bedaquiline  
On 19 December 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Sirturo, 100mg tablets intended for the treatment of tuberculosis. Sirturo was designated as 
an orphan medicinal product on 26 August 2005. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International N.V. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Sirturo is bedaquiline, a diarylquinoline for treatment of tuberculosis (ATC 
code J04AK05). Bedaquiline specifically inhibits mycobacterial ATP (adenosine 5'-triphosphate) 
synthase, an essential enzyme for the generation of energy in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The 
inhibition of ATP synthase leads to bactericidal effects for both replicating and non-replicating tubercle 
bacilli. 
The benefits with Sirturo are its ability to likely provide clinically relevant activity as part of multi-drug 
regimens against tuberculosis (TB) based on clinical data in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) 
patients, who were defined as being at least resistant against the two major tuberculostatic medicines 
(isaoniazide and rifampicine). In these studies, patients received Sirturo up to 24 weeks in combination 
with a background regimen (BR) of other anti-tuberculosis medicines in the treatment of pulmonary 
MDR-TB, and it was shown to be efficacious in terms of sputum culture conversion. 
Further complementary evidence of efficacy is provided by data from an ongoing single arm study 
which also included patients with extensively drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) 
The above studies also seem to indicate that bedaquiline currently does not show cross-resistance to 
any available tuberculosis medicines.  
Additional studies are required post authorisation to further define the optimal use of this agent, both 
with regards the number and types of agents that are needed in combination, and the optimal 
treatment duration.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The  most  common  side  effects  are  increases  in  liver  enzymes,  which  were  noted  in  patients  treated 
with  bedaquiline  compared  to  placebo.Liver  enzymes  are  generally  monitored  during  TB  therapy,  as 
liver toxicity is common for a number of other TB agents.  
Furthermore,  QTc  prolongation  was  noted  during  treatment  with  bedaquiline.  QTc  prolongation 
requires  monitoring  and  judicial  consideration  of  benefit-risk  when  combining  bedaquiline  with  other 
antimycobacterial drugs that are also significant prolongators of the QTc-interval.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sirturo will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
"For use as part of an appropriate combination regimen for pulmonary multidrug-resistant tuberculosis 
(MDR-TB) in adult patients when an effective treatment regimen cannot otherwise be composed for 
reasons of resistance or tolerability. Consideration should be given to official guidance on the 
appropriate use of antibacterial agents".  
It is proposed that Sirturo be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of multi drug 
resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sirturo and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Sirturo 
EMA/CHMP/771324/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
