20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/717569/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
ellaOne 
ulipristal acetate 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product ellaOne. The variation concerns a change in the classification for supply of ellaOne 
from "medicinal product subject to medical prescription" to "medicinal product not subject to medical 
prescription". The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Laboratoire HRA 
Pharma, SA.  
This change in the classification for supply of ellaOne is based on the fact that the CHMP agreed that 
the criteria for classifying a medicine as subject to medical prescription as laid down in the European 
Commission Guideline do not apply to ellaOne. Therefore the Committee recommended that the 
change in the supply classification is approvable. 
The currently approved indication for ellaOne is: 
“Emergency contraception within 120 hours (5 days) of unprotected sexual intercourse or 
contraceptive failure.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
