13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/808787/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pemetrexed Baxter 
pemetrexed 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pemetrexed 
Baxter, intended for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma and non-small cell lung cancer. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Baxter Holding B.V. 
Pemetrexed Baxter will be available as 100 mg and 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion. The active substance of Pemetrexed Baxter is pemetrexed, a multi-targeted anti-cancer 
antifolate agent (ATC code: L01BA04) that exerts its action by disrupting crucial folate-dependent 
metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Pemetrexed Baxter is a generic of Alimta, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 September 2004. 
Since Pemetrexed Baxter is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Alimta was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Baxter in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy 
naïve patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Baxter in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients 
with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly 
squamous cell histology (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Baxter is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology in patients whose disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Baxter is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology (see section 5.1). 
It is proposed that Pemetrexed Baxter be subject to prescription and administered under the supervision 
of physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Pemetrexed Baxter  
EMA/CHMP/808787/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
