26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/458931/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Imfinzi 
durvalumab 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Imfinzi, intended for the 
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Imfinzi will be available as a 50-mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Imfinzi 
is durvalumab, an antineoplastic monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC28) that potentiates T-cell 
response, including anti-tumour response, through blockade of PD-L1 binding to PD-1. 
The benefits with Imfinzi are its ability to improve survival and progression-free survival compared with 
placebo in patients whose disease has not progressed following chemoradiation therapy.  
The most common side effects are cough, upper respiratory tract infections, rash and diarrhoea. Imfinzi is 
also associated with immune-related adverse reactions including pneumonitis, hepatitis, colitis, 
hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, type 1 diabetes mellitus, hypophysitis or 
hypopituitarism, nephritis and rash. 
The full indication is:  
"Imfinzi as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 on ≥ 1% of tumour cells and whose disease has not 
progressed following platinum-based chemoradiation therapy." 
It is proposed that Imfinzi be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
