19 July 2012 
EMA/CHMP/487381/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Prezista 
darunavir 
On 19 July 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending an extension and a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Prezista. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International N V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The extension adopted by the CHMP is to add a new pharmaceutical form (100 mg/ml oral suspension) 
to the existing product range.  
The CHMP also adopted a change to an indication, as follows2: 
 “PREZISTA, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection 
in adult patients as well as antiretroviral therapy (ART)-experienced paediatric patients from the age 
of 3 years and at least 15 kg body weight. 
In deciding to initiate treatment with PREZISTA co-administered with low dose ritonavir, careful 
consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of 
mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of PREZISTA.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
