25 April 2014 
EMA/CHMP/236261/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Nexavar 
sorafenib 
On 25 April 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Nexavar. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. 
Nexavar is currently indicated for the treatment of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and for the 
treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who have failed prior interferon-alpha or 
interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered unsuitable for such therapy. The CHMP has now 
recommended an extension to the indication to include the treatment of patients with progressive, 
locally advanced or metastatic, differentiated thyroid carcinoma, refractory to radioactive iodine. 
The full indication for Nexavar will be as follows2: 
“Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Nexavar is indicated for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Nexavar is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma who have failed 
prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered unsuitable for such therapy. 
Differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
Nexavar is indicated for the treatment of patients with progressive, locally advanced or 
metastatic, differentiated (papillary/follicular/Hürthle cell) thyroid carcinoma, refractory to 
radioactive iodine.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
