24 March 2022 
EMA/CHMP/168651/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Carvykti 
ciltacabtagene autoleucel 
On 24 March 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Carvykti3, intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. As 
Carvykti is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an assessment 
by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
Carvykti will be available as 3.2 x 10⁶ to 1.0 x 10⁸ cells dispersion for infusion.  
The active substance of Carvykti is ciltacabtagene autoleucel, a genetically modified autologous T cell 
immunotherapy consisting of modified T-cells bearing a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting B-cell 
maturation antigen (BCMA). BCMA is primarily expressed on the surface of malignant multiple myeloma 
B-lineage cells, as well as late-stage B cells and plasma cells. Upon binding to BCMA-expressing cells, the 
CAR promotes T cell activation, expansion, and elimination of target cells. 
The benefits of Carvykti are a high and durable response in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple 
myeloma. The most common side effects are neutropenia, cytokine release syndrome, pyrexia, 
thrombocytopenia, anaemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, musculoskeletal pain, hypotension, fatigue, 
transaminase elevation, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhoea, hypocalcaemia, hypophosphataemia, 
nausea, headache, cough, tachycardia, chills, encephalopathy, decreased appetite, oedema and 
hypokalaemia. 
The full indication is: 
CARVYKTI is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple 
myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody, and have demonstrated disease 
progression on the last therapy. 
Carvykti should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies 
and trained for administration and management of patients treated with Carvykti. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Carvykti  
EMA/CHMP/168651/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
