17 December 2015  
EMA/CHMP/774664/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kovaltry 
octocog alfa 
On 17 December 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kovaltry, 
intended for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII 
deficiency). The applicant for this medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. 
Kovaltry will be available as a powder (250 IU, 500 IU, 1000 IU, 2000 IU and 3000 IU) and solvent for 
solution for injection. The active substance of Kovaltry is octocog alfa (blood coagulation factor VIII), an 
antihaemorrhagic (ATC code: B02BD02). It works as replacement therapy and temporarily increases plasma 
levels of factor VIII, helping to prevent and control bleeding.  
The benefits with Kovaltry are its ability to prevent bleeding in terms of annualised bleeding rate and to 
control bleeding when used on demand for surgical procedures as seen in clinical trials in adult and 
paediatric patients. The most common side effects are: lymphadenopathy, palpitation, sinus tachycardia, 
abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, dyspepsia, pyrexia, chest discomfort, injection site reactions, 
headache, dizziness, insomnia, pruritus, rash, allergic dermatitis. Hypersensitivity reactions have been 
reported rarely. 
The full indication is: "Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital 
factor VIII deficiency). Kovaltry can be used for all age groups. "It is proposed that Kovaltry be prescribed 
by physicians experienced in the treatment of haemophilia A.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
