9 November 2017 
EMA/CHMP/734315/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fulvestrant Mylan 
fulvestrant 
On 9 November 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fulvestrant 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Fulvestrant Mylan will be available as a 250-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Fulvestrant 
Mylan is fulvestrant, an anti-oestrogen which attaches to the receptors for oestrogen on the surface of 
cells, thereby blocking the effects of the hormone and causing the number of oestrogen receptors to fall 
(ATC code: L02BA03). As a result, the tumour cells are not stimulated to grow by oestrogen and the 
growth of the tumour is reduced.  
Fulvestrant Mylan is a generic of Faslodex, which has been authorised in the EU since 10 March 2004. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Fulvestrant Mylan. Since Fulvestrant Mylan is of the 
same type of solution, contains the same concentration of the active substance and has the same 
excipients in similar amounts as the medicinal product currently approved, a bioequivalence study versus 
the reference product Faslodex was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
"Fulvestrant is indicated for the treatment of estrogen receptor positive, locally advanced or metastatic 
breast cancer in postmenopausal women: 
•  not previously treated with endocrine therapy, or 
•  with disease relapse on or after adjuvant antiestrogenanti-estrogen therapy, or disease progression 
on antiestrogen therapy." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
