13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/742076/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Locametz 
gozetotide 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Locametz, 
intended for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Limited. 
Locametz will be available as a 25 µg kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation. The drug substance of 
Locametz is gozetotide. Gallium (68Ga) gozetotide, obtained after radiolabelling of Locametz with gallium-
68, is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for tumour detection (ATC code: V09IX14) that binds to cells that 
express prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA). This includes malignant prostate cancer cells, which 
overexpress PSMA. 
The benefits of Locametz are its potential to diagnose prostate cancer during primary staging and of 
prostate cancer recurrence in patients with biochemical recurrence, and its use for patient selection for 
PSMA-targeted treatment. The most common side effects are fatigue, nausea, constipation and vomiting. 
The full indication is: 
Locametz, after radiolabelling with gallium 68, is indicated for the detection of prostate specific 
membrane antigen (PSMA) positive lesions with positron emission tomography (PET) in adults 
with prostate cancer (PCa) in the following clinical settings: 
• 
• 
Primary staging of patients with high risk PCa prior to primary curative therapy, 
Suspected PCa recurrence in patients with increasing levels of serum prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) after primary curative therapy, 
• 
Identification of patients with PSMA positive progressive metastatic castration resistant 
prostate cancer (mCRPC) for whom PSMA targeted therapy is indicated (see section 4.4). 
Locametz should only be administered in a designated nuclear medicine facility by trained healthcare 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
professionals with technical expertise in using and handling nuclear medicine imaging agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Locametz  
EMA/CHMP/742076/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
