28 January 2021 
EMA/636723/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nexpovio 
selinexor 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Nexpovio3 intended for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Karyopharm Europe GmbH. 
Nexpovio will be available as 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Nexpovio is selinexor, a 
reversible covalent selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) that specifically blocks exportin 1 (XPO1) 
(ATC code: L01XX66). XPO1 is the major mediator of the nuclear export of many cargo proteins 
including tumour suppressor proteins (TSPs), growth regulators and mRNAs of growth-promoting 
(oncogenic) proteins. XPO1 inhibition by selinexor leads to marked accumulation of TSPs in the nucleus, 
cell cycle arrest, reductions in several oncoproteins such as c-Myc and cyclin D1, and apoptosis of cancer 
cells. 
The benefits with Nexpovio is its ability to bring about a response in penta-refractory patients with 
relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. The most common side effects are nausea, thrombocytopenia, 
fatigue, anaemia, decreased appetite, decreased weight, diarrhoea, vomiting, hyponatraemia, 
neutropenia and leukopenia.  
The full indication is:  
NEXPOVIO is indicated in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of multiple myeloma 
in adult patients who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory 
to at least two proteasome inhibitors, two immunomodulatory agents and an anti-CD38 
monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage.   
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nexpovio should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple myeloma.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Nexpovio  
EMA/636723/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
