21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/637065/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Amvuttra 
vutrisiran 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Amvuttra2, 
intended for treatment of hereditary transthyretin-mediated (hATTR) amyloidosis. Amvuttra was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 25 May 2018. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Alnylam Netherlands B.V. 
Amvuttra will be available as a 25 mg solution for injection subcutaneously once every 3 months. The 
active substance of Amvuttra is vutrisiran, a double-stranded small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) 
that specifically targets variant and wild-type transthyretin (TTR) mRNA. The TTR gene is mutated in 
hATTR amyloidosis, resulting in an ubiquitous accumulation of TTR protein fragments as amyloid deposits 
in multiple organs. By reducing TTR production in the liver, Amvuttra reduces amyloid deposition and 
potentially clears existing deposits, thereby halting or even reversing disease progression. 
Amvuttra has shown clinically relevant benefits for both the neurological symptoms of hATTR amyloidosis 
and patient quality of life. The most common side effects are pain in the extremities and arthralgia. 
The full indication is: treatment of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) in 
adult patients with stage 1 or stage 2 polyneuropathy. 
Amvuttra should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of amyloidosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
