19 May 2022 
EMA/CHMP/266795/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi 
sugammadex 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sugammadex 
Fresenius Kabi, intended for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH. 
Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi will be available as a 100 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance 
of Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi is sugammadex, an antidote (ATC code: V03AB35). Sugammadex is a 
selective relaxant-binding agent which forms a complex with the muscle relaxants rocuronium and 
vecuronium, thereby reducing their ability to exert an effect. This results in the reversal of neuromuscular 
blockade and allows the muscles to resume normal function. 
Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi is a generic of Bridion, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 July 
2008. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi. Since this 
medicine is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the 
reference product Bridion was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can 
be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium in adults. 
For the paediatric population: sugammadex is only recommended for routine reversal of 
rocuronium induced blockade in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years. 
Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi should only be administered by, or under the supervision of, an 
anaesthetist.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Sugammadex Fresenius Kabi  
EMA/CHMP/266795/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
