17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/447855/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nyvepria 
pegfilgrastim 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nyvepria, 
intended to reduce the duration of neutropenia and to help prevent febrile neutropenia after cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Nyvepria will be available as a 6-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Nyvepria is 
pegfilgrastim, an immunostimulant and colony stimulating factor (ATC code: L03AA13), which stimulates 
the production and release of neutrophils from the bone marrow. 
Nyvepria is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Neulasta 
(pegfilgrastim), which was authorised in the EU on 22 August 2002. Data show that Nyvepria has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Neulasta (pegfilgrastim). More information on biosimilar 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in 
adult patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception 
of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes).  
Nyvepria therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology and/or 
haematology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
