22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/753436/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xarelto 
rivaroxaban 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted two 
positive opinions for the medicinal product Xarelto one recommending an extension to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation and the other recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. They may request a 
re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for two new strengths as follows: 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and prevention of recurrent DVT and pulmonary embolism 
(PE) following an acute DVT in adults.  
Furthermore, in parallel the CHMP adopted another new indication for the same strengths as follows: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Xarelto will be as follows2: 
•  Xarelto 10 mg tablet 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing hip and knee replacement 
surgery 
•  Xarelto 15 mg and 20 mg tablets 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation with one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age 
≥ 75 years, diabetes mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and prevention of recurrent DVT and pulmonary 
embolism (PE) following an acute DVT in adults.  
Xarelto 
EMA/CHMP/753436/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
