21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/402772/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Afinitor 
everolimus 
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Afinitor. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive, HER2/neu negative advanced 
breast cancer, in combination with exemestane, in postmenopausal women without symptomatic 
visceral disease after recurrence or progression following a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Afinitor will be as follows2: 
Hormone receptor-positive advanced breast cancer 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive, HER2/neu negative 
advanced breast cancer, in combination with exemestane, in postmenopausal women 
without symptomatic visceral disease after recurrence or progression following a non-
steroidal aromatase inhibitor. 
Neuroendocrine tumours of pancreatic origin 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well- or moderately-differentiated 
neuroendocrine tumours of pancreatic origin in adults with progressive disease. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Renal cell carcinoma 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, whose disease 
has progressed on or after treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy. 
Afinitor 
EMA/CHMP/402772/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
