26 February 2015 
EMA/CHMP/43975/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Avastin 
bevacizumab 
On 26 February 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Avastin. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Bevacizumab, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan in 
patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see Section 5.1).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Avastin will be as follows2: 
Bevacizumab in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of 
adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) status, please refer to section 5.1. 
Bevacizumab in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options including taxanes or 
anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. Patients who have received taxane and anthracycline-
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
containing regimens in the adjuvant setting within the last 12 months should be excluded from 
treatment with Avastin in combination with capecitabine. For further information as to HER2 status, 
please refer to section 5.1.  
Bevacizumab, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than 
predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of adult patients 
with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
Bevacizumab, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line treatment of 
adult patients with advanced (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages III 
B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. 
Bevacizumab, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine, is indicated for treatment of adult 
patients with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary 
peritoneal cancer who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or 
VEGF receptor–targeted agents. 
Bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel, topotecan, or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin is indicated 
for the treatment of adult patients with platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, 
or primary peritoneal cancer who received no more than two prior chemotherapy regimens and who 
have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor–targeted 
agents (see Section 5.1). 
Bevacizumab, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and 
topotecan in patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see Section 
5.1). 
Avastin 
EMA/CHMP/43975/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
