24 February 2022 
EMA/111169/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Orgovyx 
relugolix 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Orgovyx, 
intended for the treatment of prostate cancer. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Myovant Sciences Ireland Limited. 
Orgovyx will be available as 120 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Orgovyx is relugolix, a 
hormone antagonist (ATC code: L02BX04) that competitively binds to gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
(GnRH) receptors in the anterior pituitary gland, preventing native GnRH from binding. This reduces the 
secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), causing a reduction in the 
production of testosterone from the testes. 
The benefits of Orgovyx are a medical castration rate of 96.7% compared with 88.8% in the control arm 
as observed in a randomised, open-label study in adult men with androgen-sensitive advanced prostate 
cancer. The most common side effects are hot flushes, musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, diarrhoea and 
constipation. 
The full indication is: 
Orgovyx is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced hormone-sensitive 
prostate cancer. 
Orgovyx should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the medical treatment 
of prostate cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
