18 May 2017  
EMA/CHMP/269671/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 
insulin lispro 
On 18 May 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Insulin lispro 
Sanofi, intended for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-
Aventis groupe. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi will be available as a solution for injection (100 units/ml). The active substance of 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is insulin lispro, a fast-acting insulin analogue (ATC code: A10AB04) which is 
absorbed more rapidly by the body and can therefore act faster than human insulin. The replacement 
insulin acts in the same way as naturally produced insulin; it works by facilitating uptake of glucose into 
skeletal muscle and fat tissue, and by inhibiting glucose output from the liver. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product 
Humalog (insulin lispro), which was authorised in the EU on 30 April 1996. Data show that Insulin lispro 
Sanofi has comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Humalog. More information on biosimilar medicines 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
“For the treatment of adults and children with diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the 
maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin lispro Sanofi is also indicated for the initial 
stabilisation of diabetes mellitus.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
