20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/299233/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yesafili 
aflibercept 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yesafili, 
intended for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration, visual impairment due 
to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO), visual impairment 
due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) and visual impairment due to myopic choroidal neovascularisation 
(myopic CNV). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Viatris Limited. 
Yesafili will be available as a 40 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Yesafili is 
aflibercept, an antineovascularisation agent (ATC code: S01LA05). Aflibercept is a recombinant fusion 
protein consisting of human VEGF receptor 1 and VEGF receptor 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc 
portion of human IgG1, which acts as a soluble decoy for the natural VEGF receptors that inhibits their 
activation, thereby reducing pathological angiogenesis.  
Yesafili is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Eylea (aflibercept), 
which was authorised in the EU on 22 November 2012. Data show that Yesafili has comparable quality, 
safety and efficacy to Eylea. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Yesafili is indicated for adults for the treatment of: 
•  neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) (see section 5.1), 
• 
visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein occlusion (branch RVO 
or central RVO) (see section 5.1), 
• 
• 
visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) (see section 5.1), 
visual impairment due to myopic choroidal neovascularisation (myopic CNV) (see section 
5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yesafili must only be administered by a qualified physician experienced in administering intravitreal 
injections. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Yesafili  
EMA/CHMP/299233/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
