21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/687741/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sovaldi 
sofosbuvir 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Sovaldi, 400 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences International Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Sovaldi is sofosbuvir, a direct acting antiviral (ATC code not yet assigned).  
The active metabolite of sofosbuvir is a pangenotypic inhibitor of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5B RNA 
polymerase.  
The benefits of Sovaldi used in combination with other medicinal products is its ability to inhibit viral 
replication in infected host cells which can lead to the eradication of the virus, correlating to a cure of 
chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Sovaldi provides the first interferon-free treatment option for 
chronic hepatitis C. In patients where interferon is still needed for efficacy, Sovaldi enables a shortened 
treatment duration compared to current standard-of-care. Furthermore, when used before liver 
transplantation, Sovaldi can prevent graft reinfection with HCV.  
The most common side effects when Sovaldi is used in combination with ribavirin, or in combination 
with ribavirin and peginterferon alfa, were fatigue, headache, nausea and insomnia. The safety profile 
of Sovaldi in combination with ribavirin +/- peginterferon alfa was consistent with the expected safety 
profile of ribavirin and peginterferon alfa treatment, without increasing the frequency or severity of the 
expected adverse drug reactions.   
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sovaldi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Sovaldi is indicated in combination with other medicinal products for the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). For hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.4 and 5.1".  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 74188613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
It is proposed that treatment with Sovaldi should be initiated and monitored by a physician 
experienced in the management of CHC. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sovaldi and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Sovaldi 
EMA/CHMP/687741/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
