17 February 2011 
EMA/112994/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz 
ibandronic acid   
On 17 February 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ibandronic 
Acid Sandoz 50mg film-coated tablets intended for prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast 
cancer and bone metastases. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz Pharmaceuticals GmbH. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is ibandronic acid, a third generation bisphosphonate 
(ATC Code: M05B A 06) which inhibits bone resorption.  
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is a generic of Bondronat which has been authorised in the EU since 25 June 
1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ibandronic Acid Sandoz, and its 
bioequivalence with Bondronat. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The approved indication for 50mg film-coated tablets is:  “Prevention of skeletal events (pathological 
fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and 
bone metastases”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ibandronic Acid Sandoz and therefore recommends the granting 
of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
