25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/455080/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of positive opinion1 for Defitelio 
International nonproprietary name (INN): defibrotide 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), following a re-
examination procedure, adopted a final positive opinion, recommending to grant a marketing 
authorisation for the medicinal product Defitelio 80 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
intended for the treatment of severe hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD) also known as sinusoidal 
obstructive syndrome (SOS) in haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) therapy. Defitelio was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 29 July 2004. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Gentium SpA. 
The active substance of Defitelio is defibrotide, a drug for the treatment of severe veno-occlusive 
disease (VOD) in patients undergoing haematopoietic (blood) stem-cell (B01AX01). The mechanism of 
action of defibrotide has not been fully elucidated. 
The benefits with Defitelio are its effects of defibrotide which increase the breakdown of clots in the 
blood. In addition there is experimental evidence that Defibrotide may protect the cells lining blood 
vessels. The most common side effects are haemorrhage (including but not limited to gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, pulmonary haemorrhage and epistaxis), hypotension and coagulopathy.   
A pharmacovigilance plan for Defitelio, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Defitelio is indicated for the treatment of severe hepatic veno-occlusive 
disease (VOD) also known as sinusoidal obstructive syndrome (SOS) in haematopoietic stem-cell 
transplantation (HSCT) therapy”. It is indicated in adults and in adolescents, children and infants aged 
1 month to 18 years.” The recommended dose is 6.25 mg/kg body weight every 6 hours 
(25 mg/kg/day). There is limited efficacy and safety data on doses above this level and consequently it 
is not recommended to increase the dose above 25 mg/kg/day. 
Defitelio should be administered for a minimum of 21 days and continued until the symptoms and 
signs of severe VOD resolve. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
It is proposed that Defitelio be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
complications of HSCT.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers that there is a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Defitelio and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 2. 
2 Marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances refers to the fact that in exceptional circumstances an 
authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed annually. 
Summary of positive opinion0F for Defitelio 
EMA/CHMP/455080/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
                                                
