29 May 2019 
EMA/CHMP/275501/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Posaconazole AHCL 
posaconazole 
On 29 May 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Posaconazole AHCL, 
intended for the treatment and prevention of fungal infections.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Posaconazole AHCL will be available as a 40 mg/ml oral suspension. The active substance of Posaconazole 
AHCL is posaconazole, a triazole antimycotic (ATC code: J02AC04) that inhibits the enzyme lanosterol 
14α-demethylase (CYP51), which catalyses an essential step in ergosterol biosynthesis. 
Posaconazole AHCL is a generic of Noxafil, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 October 2005. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Posaconazole AHCL, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Noxafil. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Posaconazole AHCL is indicated for treatment of the following fungal infections in adults: 
 
Invasive aspergillosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or itraconazole or 
in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products; 
 
Fusariosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B or in patients who are 
intolerant of amphotericin B; 
  Chromoblastomycosis and mycetoma in patients with disease that is refractory to itraconazole or in 
patients who are intolerant of itraconazole; 
  Coccidioidomycosis in patients with disease that is refractory to amphotericin B, itraconazole or 
fluconazole or in patients who are intolerant of these medicinal products. 
  Oropharyngeal candidiasis: as first-line therapy in patients who have severe disease or are 
immunocompromised, in whom response to topical therapy is expected to be poor. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Refractoriness is defined as progression of infection or failure to improve after a minimum of 7 days of 
prior therapeutic doses of effective antifungal therapy. 
Posaconazole  AHCL  is  also  indicated  for  prophylaxis  of  invasive  fungal  infections  in  the  following 
patients: 
 
Patients  receiving  remission-induction  chemotherapy  for  acute  myelogenous  leukemia  (AML)  or 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and who are at high 
risk of developing invasive fungal infections; 
  Hematopoietic  stem  cell 
transplant  (HSCT)  recipients  who  are  undergoing  high-dose 
immunosuppressive therapy for graft versus host disease and who are at high risk of developing 
invasive fungal infections.” 
It is proposed that Posaconazole AHCL be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of fungal 
infections or in the supportive care of high risk patients for which posaconazole is indicated as prophylaxis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Posaconazole AHCL  
EMA/275501/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
