30 January 2020 
EMA/43724/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rybelsus 
semaglutide 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rybelsus, 
intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk 
A/S. 
Rybelsus will be available as oral tablets (3 mg, 7 mg and 14 mg). The active substance of Rybelsus is 
semaglutide, a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist (ATC code: A10BJ06). Like native GLP-1, 
semaglutide leads to an increase in glucose-dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon 
release.  
Semaglutide has already been authorised in the EU as Ozempic for subcutaneous use.  
The benefits with Rybelsus are its ability to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes 
when used in combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products or on its own when metformin 
cannot be used. Rybelsus has also a beneficial effect on body weight. The most common side effects are 
hypoglycaemia when used in combination with insulin or sulfonylurea, and gastrointestinal side effects 
such as nausea and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is:  
" Rybelsus is indicated for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus to 
improve glycaemic control as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
• 
• 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications 
in combination with other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. 
For study results with respect to combinations, effects on glycaemic control and cardiovascular events, 
and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Rybelsus  
EMA/43724/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
