24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/403328/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Accofil 
filgrastim 
On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Accofil, 30  
and 48 MU, solution for injection/infusion in pre-filled syringe intended for the treatment of 
neutropenia.  The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Accofil is filgrastim, an immunostimulating medicinal product (L03AA02) which 
regulates the production and release of functional neutrophils from the bone marrow. 
Accofil is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Neupogen authorised in the 
EU. Studies have shown Accofil to have a comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen 
(filgrastim).  
In clinical trials on cancer patients treated with this filgrastim, the most common side effect were blood 
uric acid increase, blood lactate dehydrogenase increase, decreased appetite, oropharyngeal pain, 
cough, dispnoea, nausea, vomiting, gamma-glutamyl trasnferase (GGT) increase, blood alkaline 
phosphatase (ALP) increase, alopecia, skin rash, bone pain, chest pain, musculoskeletal pain, asthenia, 
fatigue and mucosal inflammation. 
The most common side effects for peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) mobilisation in normal 
patients with this filgrastim was mild to moderate transient musculoskeletal pain. Leukocytosis and 
thrombocytopenia were observed in 41% and 35% respectively of normal donors administered 
filgrastim. Headaches, believed to be caused by filgrastim, have been reported very commonly in PBPC 
donor studies. 
The most frequent adverse effects in severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) patients administered this 
filgrastim were bone pain, and general musculoskeletal pain. Other undesirable effects seen include 
splenomegaly which may be progressive in a minority of cases and thrombocytopenia. Headache and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
diarrhoea have been reported shortly after starting filgrastim therapy, typically in less than 10% of 
patients.  
Splenomegaly was reported to be related to filgrastim therapy in <3% of patients. In all cases of 
splenic enlargement in HIV patients, this was mild or moderate on physical examination and the clinical 
course was benign; no patients had a diagnosis of hypersplenism and no patients underwent 
splenectomy. As splenic enlargement is a common finding in patients with HIV infection and is present 
to varying degrees in most patients with AIDS, the relationship to filgrastim treatment is unclear.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Accofil will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Accofil is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile 
neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with 
the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the 
reduction in the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed 
by bone marrow transplantation considered to be at increased risk of prolonged severe 
neutropenia. The safety and efficacy of Accofil are similar in adults and children receiving 
cytotoxic chemotherapy.  
Accofil is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs). 
In patients, children or adults with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 x 109/L, and a history of severe or recurrent 
infections, long term administration of Accofil is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to 
reduce the incidence and duration of infection-related events. 
Accofil is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal to 1.0 x 
109/L) in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial infections 
when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
Accofil therapy should only be given in collaboration with an oncology centre which has experience in 
granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) treatment and haematology and has the necessary 
diagnostic facilities. The mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration 
with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the monitoring 
of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Accofil and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Accofil 
EMA/CHMP/403328/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
