26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/447907/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xerava 
eravacycline 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xerava, 
intended for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections in adults. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Xerava will be available as a 50-mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Xerava is eravacycline, a fluorocycline belonging to the tetracycline group of antibiotics (ATC code: 
J01AA13). Eravacycline inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30S ribosomal subunit, thus 
preventing the incorporation of amino acid residues into elongating peptide chains. 
The benefits with Xerava are its ability to effectively treat complicated intra-abdominal infections. The 
most common side effects are nausea, vomiting and infusion site phlebitis. 
The full indication is:  
"Xerava is indicated for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) in adults 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
