22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/202204/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Adtralza 
tralokinumab 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Adtralza, 
intended for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is LEO Pharma A/S. 
Adtralza will be available as 150 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Adtralza is 
tralokinumab, a recombinant human IgG4 monoclonal antibody (ATC code: D11AH07) that works by 
inhibiting the interleukin-13 signaling.  
The benefits of Adtralza are its ability to improve the skin condition as measured by improvements in the 
Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) and Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI)-75 scales and to 
reduce itching in patients with atopic dermatitis. The most common side effects are upper respiratory 
tract infections, injection site reactions, conjunctivitis and conjunctivitis allergic. 
The full indication is: 
Adtralza is indicated for treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adult patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Adtralza should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
atopic dermatitis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
