21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/508445/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Levetiracetam Actavis 
levetiracetam/levetiracetam 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Levetiracetam Actavis, 250 mg, 500 mg, 750 mg and 1000 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the 
treatment of epilepsy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Levetiracetam Actavis is levetiracetam, an antiepileptic (N03AX14). 
Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative chemically unrelated to existing antiepileptic active 
substances. The exact mechanism by which levetiracetam acts to treat epilepsy is unknown, however, 
the drug binds to a synaptic vesicle protein, SV2A which is believed to impede nerve conduction across 
synapses. 
Levetiracetam Actavis is a generic of Keppra, which has been authorised in the EU since 29 September 
2000. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Levetiracetam Actavis and its 
bioequivalence with the reference product Keppra. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Levetiracetam Actavis will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Levetiracetam Actavis is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of 
partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with 
newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Actavis is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Levetiracetam Actavis and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Levetiracetam Actavis  
EMA/CHMP/508445/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
