22 July 2010 
EMA/CHMP/423682/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Twynsta 
Amlodipine/Telmisartan 
On 22 July 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Twynsta 40 
mg/5 mg, 40 mg/10 mg, 80 mg/5 mg and 80 mg/10 mg tablets intended for the treatment of 
hypertension. The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Twynsta are amlodipine and telmisartan, anti hypertensive agents; ATC Code: 
C09DB04.  
Twynsta combines two antihypertensive compounds with complementary mechanisms to control blood 
pressure in patients with essential hypertension: an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, telmisartan, 
and a dihydropyridinic calcium channel blocker, amlodipine. 
The benefits with Twynsta are its ability to have an additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood 
pressure to a greater degree than either component alone. The most common side effects are dizziness 
and peripheral oedema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Twynsta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: 
“Treatment of essential hypertension in adults: 
Add on therapy 
Twynsta is indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on amlodipine. 
Replacement therapy 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Adult patients receiving telmisartan and amlodipine from separate tablets can instead receive tablets of 
Twynsta containing the same component doses”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Twynsta and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Twynsta  
EMA/CHMP/423682/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
