26 April 2023 
EMA/CHMP/166656/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Columvi 
glofitamab 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Columvi3, intended for the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Columvi will be available as 2.5 mg and 10 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Columvi is glofitamab, a monoclonal bispecific antibody (ATC code: L01FX28). By simultaneously 
binding to CD20 on the B cell and CD3 on the T cell, glofitamab mediates the formation of an 
immunological synapse with subsequent T-cell activation and proliferation, secretion of cytokines and 
release of cytolytic proteins resulting in the lysis of CD20-expressing B cells. 
The benefits of Columvi were evident in terms of a complete response (CR) rate and overall response rate 
(ORR) with a significant duration, as observed in an open-label multicenter trial evaluating Columvi in 
patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The most common side effects are 
cytokine release syndrome, infections, neutropenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, tumour flare, headache, 
constipation, diarrhoea, nausea, rash, pyrexia, hypophosphataemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypocalcaemia 
and hypokalaemia. 
The full indication is: 
Columvi as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), after two or more lines of systemic therapy. 
Columvi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients 
who have access to appropriate medical support to manage severe reactions associated with cytokine 
release syndrome (CRS). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Columvi  
EMA/CHMP/166656/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
