17 November 2011 
EMA/CHMP/614374/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
desloratadine 
On 17 November 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets intended for relief of symptoms associated with 
allergic rhinitis and urticaria. The applicant for this medicinal product is Ratiopharm GmbH. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Desloratadine ratiopharm is desloratadine, an antihistamine for systemic use 
(R06AX27). Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral 
H1-receptor antagonist activity. After oral administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral 
histamine H1-receptors. The selectivity is achieved because the substance is excluded from the entry 
into the central nervous system.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm is a generic of Aerius which has been authorised in the EU since 
15 January 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Desloratadine ratiopharm and 
its bioequivalence with the reference product Aerius. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Desloratadine ratiopharm will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Desloratadine ratiopharm and therefore recommends the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm  
EMA/CHMP/614374/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
