15 December 2011 
EMA/796457/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Teysuno 
tegafur / gimeracil / oteracil  
On  15  December  2011,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Teysuno.  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Nordic 
Group  B.V.  They  may  request  a  re  examination  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  provided  that  they  notify  the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to a contraindication as follows: 
 
“Severe renal impairment (CrCl below 30 ml/min). End stage renal disease patients requiring 
dialysis.” 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  updated  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  public  assessment  report 
(EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full contraindications for Teysuno will be as follows2: 
  Hypersensitivity to any of the active substances (tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil) or to any 
of the excipients (see sections 4.4 and 6.1). 
  History of severe and unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidine therapy. 
  Known dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency. 
 
Pregnancy and breastfeeding. 
  Severe bone marrow suppression (severe leucopoenia, neutropaenia, or thrombocytopenia; 
see section 4.2, Table 5). 
  End stage renal disease patients requiring dialysis. 
  Co-administration of other fluoropyrimidines with Teysuno. 
 
Treatment within 4 weeks with DPD inhibitors, including sorivudine or its chemically related 
analogues such as brivudine. 
  Contraindications for cisplatin; refer to the cisplatin SmPC. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
