25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/525445/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lymphoseek 
tilmanocept 
On 25 September 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lymphoseek, 250 µg, kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation, intended for diagnostic use only. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Navidea Biopharmaceuticals Limited. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Lymphoseek is tilmanocept, a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical (V09IA09) that 
specifically binds to mannose binding receptor proteins (CD206) that reside on the surface of 
macrophages and dendritic cells present in the tumour draining lymph nodes (sentinel lymph nodes). 
The benefits with Lymphoseek are its ability to detect sentinel lymph nodes. The incidence of adverse 
events  related  to  Lymphoseek  appears  low,  and  the  radiation  exposure/  absorbed  doses  are  within 
acceptable limits. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lymphoseek will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. Radiolabelled 
Lymphoseek is indicated for imaging and intraoperative detection of sentinel lymph nodes draining a 
primary tumour in adult patients with breast cancer, melanoma, or localised squamous cell carcinoma 
of the oral cavity. External imaging and intraoperative evaluation may be performed using a gamma 
detection device.” It is proposed that this product should only be administered by trained healthcare 
professionals with technical expertise in performing and interpreting sentinel lymph node mapping 
procedures.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Lymphoseek and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Lymphoseek  
EMA/CHMP/525445/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
