24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/445632/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xgeva 
denosumab 
On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Xgeva. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Treatment of adults and skeletally mature adolescents with giant cell tumour of bone that is 
unresectable or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe morbidity." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Xgeva will be as follows2: 
“Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression 
or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases from solid tumours.  
Treatment of adults and skeletally mature adolescents with giant cell tumour of bone that is 
unresectable or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe morbidity.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
