13 December 2012 
EMA/778608/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Adasuve 
loxapine 
On 13 December 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Adasuve, 4.5 mg, 9.1 mg, inhalation powder, pre-dispensed, intended for the rapid control of mild-to-
moderate agitation in adult patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Alexza UK Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Adasuve is loxapine, a psycholeptic, antipsychotic (N05AH01). The efficacy of 
loxapine is proposed to be mediated through high affinity antagonism of dopamine D2 receptors and 
serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. Loxapine binds with noradrenergic, histaminergic, and cholinergic 
receptors. Its interaction with these systems may influence the spectrum of its pharmacological effects 
that are associated with calming effects and suppression of aggressive behaviour. 
The benefits with Adasuve are its ability to rapidly reduce the agitation in mild to moderate patients 
with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. In these patients, decreased agitation was evident 10 minutes 
after the first dose, the first assessment time, and at all subsequent assessments during the 24 hour 
evaluation period, for both 4.5 mg and 9.1 mg doses. About a quarter to nearly half of the patients 
needed a second dose after 2 hours to reach a satisfactory effect. 
The most common side effects are dysgeusia, sedation/somnolence and dizziness. In studies in 
agitated patients, bronchospasm was reported as an uncommon, but serious adverse reaction, while in 
subjects with active airways disease, bronchospasm was commonly reported and often required 
treatment with a short-acting beta-agonist bronchodilator. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Adasuve will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is: "ADASUVE is indicated for the rapid control of mild-to-moderate agitation 
in adult patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Patients should receive regular treatment 
immediately after control of acute agitation symptoms." 
It is proposed that Adasuve should only be administered in a hospital-setting under the supervision of 
a healthcare professional. Short-acting beta-agonist bronchodilator treatment should be available for 
treatment of possible severe respiratory side-effects (bronchospasm).  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Adasuve and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Adasuve 
EMA/778608/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
