26 April 2018 
EMA/88410/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Carmustine Obvius 
carmustine 
On  26  April  2018,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Carmustine  Obvius,  intended  for  the  treatment  of  brain  tumours,  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  and 
Hodgkin’s disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Obvius Investment B.V. 
Carmustine Obvius will be available as a 100-mg powder and solvent for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Carmustine Obvius is carmustine, an alkylating antineoplastic agent of the nitrosourea type 
(ATC code: L01AD01), which prevents DNA replication and transcription by alkylating reactive sites on 
nucleoproteins. 
Carmustine Obvius is a generic of Carmubris which has been authorised in the EU since 31 July 1996. 
Since Carmustine Obvius is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Carmubris was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: "in the treatment of new or recurrent brain tumors - glioblastoma, 
medulloblastoma, astrocytoma and metastatic brain tumors; Second line treatment of non-Hodgkin’s 
lymphomas and Hodgkin’s disease”. It is proposed that Carmustine Obvius be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
