15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/723089/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Intelence 
etravirine 
On 15 November 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Intelence. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International N V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The extension adopted by the CHMP is to add a new strength (25 mg) to the existing product range.  
The CHMP also adopted a new indication as follows: 
“INTELENCE, in combination with a boosted protease inhibitor and other antiretroviral medicinal 
products, is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in 
antiretroviral treatment-experienced paediatric patients from 6 years of age. 
The indication in paediatric patients is based on 48-week analyses of a single-arm, Phase II trial in 
antiretroviral treatment-experienced paediatric patients.” 
For information, the full indications for Intelence will be as follows2: 
“INTELENCE, in combination with a boosted protease inhibitor and other antiretroviral medicinal 
products, is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in 
antiretroviral treatment-experienced adult patients and in antiretroviral treatment-experienced 
paediatric patients from 6 years of age (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
The indication in adults is based on week 48 analyses from 2  Phase III trials in highly pre-treated 
patients where INTELENCE was investigated in combination with an optimised background regimen 
(OBR) which included darunavir/ritonavir. The indication in paediatric patients is based on 
48-week analyses of a single-arm, Phase II trial in antiretroviral treatment-experienced 
paediatric patients (see section 5.1).” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
