24 May 2012 
EMA/CHMP/321580/2012  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jentadueto 
linagliptin/metformin hydrochloride  
On 24 May 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Jentadueto, 2.5 mg/850 mg, 2.5 mg/1000 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Jentadueto (ATC code: A10BD11, Drugs used in diabetes, combinations of 
oral blood glucose lowering drugs) are linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride. Linagliptin is a 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. DPP-4 inhibition reduces the cleavage and inactivation of the 
active (intact) form of the incretin hormone glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucose dependent 
insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), producing an elevation of incretin concentrations that leads to 
enhancement of glucose dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon release. This way 
linagliptin improves glycaemic control by reducing fasting and postprandial glucose concentrations in 
patients with type 2 diabetes. Metformin is a biguanide and has an antihyperglycaemic effect, lowering 
both basal and postprandial plasma glucose concentrations. It is thought to act via various 
mechanisms, including decreasing hepatic glucose production, decreasing intestinal absorption of 
glucose, and improving insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilisation. 
Jentadueto combines these two glucose-lowering agents with complementary mechanisms of action. 
The benefits with Jentadueto are its reduction of blood glucose levels (by means of lowering HbA1c) in 
patients inadequately controlled by metformin alone or by metformin and a sulphonylurea; and as 
being equivalent in its glucose-lowering effect compared to the combined use of linagliptin 5 mg once 
daily and metformin twice daily as an alternative option for patients being treated with these two 
medicines as separate tablets already. The most common side effect is an increased incidence of 
hypoglycaemia (when combined with a sulphonylurea). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
A pharmacovigilance plan for Jentadueto will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Jentadueto is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult 
patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone, or those already 
being treated with the combination of linagliptin and metformin. 
Jentadueto is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise in adult patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose 
of metformin and a sulphonylurea.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Jentadueto and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Jentadueto  
EMA/CHMP/321580/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
