26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/464222/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ilumetri 
tildrakizumab 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ilumetri, intended for the 
treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Almirall S.A. 
Ilumetri will be available as a 100-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Ilumetri is 
tildrakizumab, an interleukin inhibitor (ATC code: L04AC17) that acts as an immunosupressant by inhibiting 
the action of interleukin 23, thus reducing the release of proinflammatory cytokines. 
The benefits with Ilumetri are its ability to reduce the immune response and inflammatory process, and 
thereby improve the signs and symptoms of patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.  The most 
common side effects are upper respiratory tract infections, gastroenteritis, nausea, diarrhea, headache, 
injection site pain and back pain. 
The full indication is: "Ilumetri is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque 
psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy". It is proposed that Ilumetri be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of plaque psoriasis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
