European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 18 December 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/335965/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ZAVESCA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): miglustat 
On  18  December  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Zavesca.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Actelion Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: ‘‘treatment of progressive neurological 
manifestations in adult patients and paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease’’. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Zavesca will be as follows***: 
‘‘Zavesca is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. Zavesca may be used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy 
is unsuitable. 
Zavesca is indicated for the treatment of progressive neurological manifestations in adult 
patients and paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease’’. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 7418 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
