19 May 2022 
EMA/CHMP/274542/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Upstaza 
eladocagene exuparvovec 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 2 for 
the medicinal product Upstaza3, intended for the treatment of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase 
(AADC) deficiency. As Upstaza is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is 
based on an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is PTC Therapeutics International Limited. 
Upstaza will be available as a 2.8 x 1011 vector genomes/0.5 mL solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Upstaza is eladocagene exuparvovec, a gene therapy product which infuses the gene 
encoding for the human AADC enzyme into the putamen region of the brain. The subsequent expression 
of AADC results in dopamine production and, as a result, development of motor function in patients with 
AADC deficiency. 
The benefit of Upstaza is the improvement in motor function. The most common side effects are initial 
insomnia, irritability and dyskinesia.  
The full indication is: 
Upstaza is indicated for the treatment of patients aged 18 months and older with a clinical, 
molecular, and genetically confirmed diagnosis of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) 
deficiency with a severe phenotype (see section 5.1).  
Upstaza should be administered by a qualified neurosurgeon in a centre specialised in stereotactic 
neurosurgery.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Upstaza  
EMA/CHMP/274542/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
