European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/216404/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
AZOPT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): brinzolamide 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Azopt. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Alcon Laboratories 
(UK) Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the indications to include use of Azopt as ‘adjunctive therapy’ with 
prostaglandin analogues.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Azopt will be as follows***: 
“Azopt is indicated to decrease elevated intraocular pressure in: 
- Ocular hypertension 
- Open-angle glaucoma  
as  monotherapy  in  patients  unresponsive  to  beta-blockers  or  in  patients  in  whom  beta-blockers  are 
contra-indicated, or as adjunctive therapy to beta-blockers or to prostaglandin analogues”. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
