23 September 2010 
EMA/CHMP/462567/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tasigna 
nilotinib  
On 23 September 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Tasigna. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Tasigna is indicated for the treatment of adults patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia 
chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) in the chronic phase”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Tasigna will be as follows2: 
Tasigna is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
•  newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukaemia 
(CML) in the chronic phase, 
• 
chronic phase and accelerated phase Philadelphia chromosome positive CML with resistance or 
intolerance to prior therapy including imatinib. Efficacy data in patients with CML in blast crisis 
are not available. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
