15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/938370/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Forxiga 
dapagliflozin 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Forxiga. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication as follows:2  
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced 
ejection fraction 
For information, the full indications for Forxiga will be: 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Forxiga is indicated in adults and children aged 10 years and above for the treatment of 
insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
₋ 
₋ 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 
For study results with respect to combination of therapies, effects on glycaemic control, 
cardiovascular and renal events, and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1. 
Heart failure 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of chronic kidney disease. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR) and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Forxiga  
EMA/CHMP/938370/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
