16 December 2010 
EMA/646092/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ifirmacombi 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
On 16 December 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Ifirmacombi 150/12.5 mg, 300/12.5 mg and 300/25 mg film coated tablets intended for essential 
hypertension. This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not 
adequately controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Krka, d.d., Novo mesto. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substances of Ifirmacombi are irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, an angiotensin-II antagonist 
and diuretic, (ATC code C09DA04). Irbesartan blocks all actions of angiotensin-II mediated by the AT1 
receptor and hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. 
Ifirmacombi is a generic of CoAprovel, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 October 1998. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ifirmacombi, and its bioequivalence with the 
reference product CoAprovel. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ifirmacombi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment of essential hypertension. This fixed dose combination is 
indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on irbesartan or 
hydrochlorothiazide”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ifirmacombi and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Ifirmacombi  
EMA/646092/2010  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
