23 June 2011 
EMA/CHMP/495548/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinionF
1
F (post authorisation) 
Kiovig 
Human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg) 
On 23 June 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Kiovig. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Baxter AG. They may 
request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
2
For information, the full indications for Kiovig will be as followsF
F: 
Replacement therapy in adults, and children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes with impaired antibody production (see section 4.4). 
  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia, in whom prophylactic antibiotics have failed. 
  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in plateau phase multiple myeloma 
patients who have failed to respond to pneumococcal immunisation. 
  Hypogammaglobulinaemia in patients after allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(HSCT). 
  Congenital AIDS and recurrent bacterial infections. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
Immunomodulation in adults, and children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
 
Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), in patients at high risk of bleeding or prior to surgery to 
correct the platelet count. 
  Guillain Barré syndrome. 
  Kawasaki disease. 
  Multifocal Motor Neuropathy (MMN). 
Kiovig  
EMA/CHMP/495548/2011 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
