30 May 2013 
EMA/CHMP/256704/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Imvanex 
Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus  
On 30 May 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the vaccine against smallpox 
called Imvanex by Bavarian Nordic A/S. This recommendation will now be forwarded to the European 
Commission, which will issue a legally binding decision. 
Imvanex is recommended to be used for “active immunisation against smallpox in adults". The CHMP 
recommended that Imvanex be used for primary vaccination (individuals previously not vaccinated 
against smallpox) or booster vaccination (for individuals previously vaccinated against smallpox) and 
can also be used in immunocompromised people. 
The active substance of Imvanex is Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus – Bavarian Nordic (MVA-BN) live 
virus. It is a live attenuated virus which works by inducing the immune system to produce antibodies 
against the smallpox virus. It will be available as a suspension for subcutaneous injection. As opposed 
to traditional smallpox vaccines, it is non-replicating which means that it does not proliferate in the 
body.  
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Imvanex’s 
benefits are greater than its risks following the assessment of five main studies involving healthy and 
immunocompromised people. The studies showed that Imvanex was effective at stimulating an 
immune response against MVA-BN when used as primary or as booster vaccination. However, due to 
the rarity of the condition and the fact that clinical trials cannot be carried out, comprehensive data on 
the efficacy and safety was not available at the time of the assessment and the CHMP therefore 
recommended that Imvanex be approved for use in the EU under exceptional circumstances.2  
Regarding its safety, Imvanex is generally well tolerated. The most common side effects are headache, 
myalgia, nausea, fatigue and erythema, induration, pruritus or swelling at the injection site. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy 
and safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the 
area concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7718 85 45 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations on the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Imvanex 
EMA/CHMP/256704/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
