19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/383964/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
XGEVA 
denosumab 
On 19 May 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product XGEVA, 
120 mg, solution for injection, intended for prevention of skeletal-related events (pathological fracture, 
radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases from 
solid tumours. The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. (Amgen). They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of XGEVA is denosumab, a human monoclonal IgG2 antibody produced in a 
mammalian cell line (chinese hamster ovary) by recombinant DNA technology (ATC code: M05BX04). 
The protein target of this antibody, RANKL, is essential for the formation, function and survival of 
osteoclasts, the sole cell type responsible for bone resorption. Increased osteoclast activity, stimulated 
by RANKL, is a key mediator of bone destruction in metastatic bone disease. Denosumab targets and 
binds with high affinity and specificity to RANKL, preventing the RANKL/RANK interaction from 
occurring and resulting in reduced osteoclast numbers and function.  
The benefit of XGEVA is in the prevention of skeletal-related events in adults with bone metastases 
from solid tumours resulting from its ability to decrease bone resorption and cancer-induced bone 
destruction. The most common side effects are dyspnoea, diarrhoea, hypocalcaemia, 
hypophosphataemia, tooth extraction, hyperhidrosis and osteonecrosis of the jaw.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for XGEVA will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Prevention of skeletal-related events (pathological fracture, radiation to 
bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases from solid tumours”.  
XGEVA should be administered under the responsibility of a healthcare professional. Detailed 
recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for XGEVA and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Furthermore, the CHMP agreed with the applicant´s request for the extension by 1 year of the 
marketing protection period for denosumab since the indication was considered to be new for 
denosumab and because it would bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing 
therapies for this indication.  
XGEVA  
EMA/CHMP/383964/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
