17 December 2015  
EMA/CHMP/816956/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tarceva 
erlotinib 
On 17 December 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tarceva. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a change to one of the existing indications of Tarceva as follows2:  
“Tarceva is also indicated as monotherapy for switch maintenance treatment in patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations and stable disease after 4 cycles 
of standard platinum-based first-line chemotherapy.” 
For information, the full indications for Tarceva will be as follows: 
“Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC): 
Tarceva is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR activating mutations. 
Tarceva is also indicated for switch maintenance treatment in patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations and stable disease after first-line chemotherapy. 
Tarceva is also indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC 
after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account. 
No survival benefit or other clinically relevant effects of the treatment have been demonstrated in 
patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-IHC negative tumours. 
Pancreatic cancer: 
Tarceva in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic 
pancreatic cancer. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account. 
No survival advantage could be shown for patients with locally advanced disease.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Tarceva  
EMA/CHMP/816956/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
