26 March 2020 
EMA/106773/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zolgensma 
onasemnogene abeparvovec 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zolgensma2, intended for 
the treatment of babies and young children who have a rare, serious inherited condition called spinal 
muscular atrophy (SMA).   
As Zolgensma is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an 
assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. The applicant for this medicinal product is AveXis EU 
Limited. 
Zolgensma will be available as a solution for infusion (2 x 10¹³ vector genomes/ml). Zolgensma is a type of 
medicine called a ‘gene therapy’.  It contains the active ingredient onasemnogene abeparvovec which 
contains human genetic material. 
Patients with SMA lack a functioning gene needed to make a protein essential for nerves that control muscles 
(Survival Motor Neuron or SMN). Zolgensma supplies a fully functioning copy of the human SMN gene 
enabling the body to produce enough SMN protein. The gene is delivered into the cells where it is needed 
using a modified virus that does not cause disease in humans. The most common side effects are increases 
in liver enzymes (transaminases) seen in blood tests. 
The full indication is:  
Zolgensma is indicated for the treatment of: 
- 
- 
patients with 5q spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) with a bi-allelic mutation in the SMN1 gene and a 
clinical diagnosis of SMA Type 1, or  
patients with 5q SMA with a bi-allelic mutation in the SMN1 gene and up to 3 copies of the SMN2 
gene. 
Zolgensma is for single treatment only and should be administered in suitable clinical centres under the 
supervision of a physician experienced in the management of patients with SMA.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Zolgensma  
EMA/106773/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
