European Medicines Agency 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/811199/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ORENCIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): abatacept 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Orencia. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-
Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows***: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
ORENCIA  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  who  have  had  an  insufficient  response  or  intolerance  to 
other  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  (DMARDs)  including  at  least  one  tumour  necrosis 
factor (TNF) inhibitor. A reduction in the progression of joint damage and improvement of physical 
function have been demonstrated during combination treatment with abatacept and methotrexate. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
ORENCIA  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
active  polyarticular  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis  (JIA)  in  paediatric  patients  6 years  of  age  and  older 
who  have  had  an  insufficient  response  to  other  DMARDs  including  at  least  one  TNF  inhibitor. 
ORENCIA has not been studied in children under 6 years old. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
