18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/741610/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xadago 
safinamide 
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xadago, 50 mg and 100 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Zambon SpA. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xadago is safinamide, a highly selective and reversible MAO-B inhibitor causing 
an increase in extracellular levels of dopamine in the striatum. Xadago is also associated with state-
dependent inhibition of voltage-gated sodium (Na+) channels, and modulation of stimulated release of 
glutamate. 
The benefits with Xadago are its ability to improve the ON time in patients with motor fluctuations, 
currently receiving L-dopa alone or in combination with other PD medications. The most common side 
effects are dyskinesia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, insomnia, nausea and orthostatic 
hypotension.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xadago will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Xadago is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with idiopathic 
Parkinson’s disease (PD) as add-on therapy to a stable dose of Levodopa (L-dopa) alone or in 
combination with other PD medicinal products in mid-to late-stage fluctuating patients.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xadago and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Xadago 
EMA/CHMP/741610/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
