21 July 2022  
EMA/CHMP/637630/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Ultomiris 
ravulizumab 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ultomiris. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Alexion Europe SAS. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis. For information, 
the full indication will therefore be as follows:2 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) 
Ultomiris is indicated in the treatment of adult and paediatric patients with a body weight of 10 kg 
or above with PNH: 
- 
- 
in patients with haemolysis with clinical symptom(s) indicative of high disease activity.  
in patients who are clinically stable after having been treated with eculizumab for at least 
the past 6 months (see section 5.1). 
Atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) 
Ultomiris is indicated in the treatment of patients with a body weight of 10 kg or above with aHUS 
who are complement inhibitor treatment-naïve or have received eculizumab for at least 3 months 
and have evidence of response to eculizumab (see section 5.1). 
Generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) 
Ultomiris is indicated as an add-on to standard therapy for the treatment of adult 
patients with gMG who are anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-positive. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
