European Medicines Agency 
Post-authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/544764/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VELMETIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Velmetia. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Merck 
Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Velmetia is also indicated as add-on to insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet 
and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients  when  stable  dosage  of  insulin  and  metformin 
alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Velmetia will be as follows***: 
“For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Velmetia  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients 
inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being 
treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. 
Velmetia  is  indicated  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  (i.e.,  triple  combination  therapy)  as  an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
Velmetia is indicated as triple combination therapy with a PPARγ agonist (i.e., a thiazolidinedione) as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of 
metformin and a PPARγ agonist.  
Velmetia is also indicated as add-on to insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to 
diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients  when  stable  dosage  of  insulin  and 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68  
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
