21 April 2017 
EMA/CHMP/251204/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opdivo. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy.” 
For information, the full indications for Opdivo will be as follows2: 
“Melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) for the 
combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients with low tumour PD-L1 
expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults. 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and treatment with 
brentuximab vedotin.  
Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck (SCCHN) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of squamous cell cancer of the head and neck 
in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see section 5.1). 
Urothelial Carcinoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable 
or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing 
therapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/251204/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
