17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/557387/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ervebo 
Ebola Zaire Vaccine (rVSV∆G-ZEBOV-GP, live)  
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation2 for the medicinal product 
Ervebo, intended for prophylaxis against Zaire Ebola virus disease (EVD). Ervebo was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Ervebo will be available as solution for injection. The active substance of Ervebo consists of a live attenuated 
recombinant Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (rVSV) with a deletion of the VSV envelope glycoprotein replaced 
with the Zaire Ebolavirus (ZEBOV) surface glycoprotein. Ervebo is a viral vaccine (ATC code J07BX02) that 
provides active immunisation against Zaire Ebolavirus by inducing an immune response that helps protect 
against the disease. 
The benefits with Ervebo are its ability to prevent laboratory confirmed EVD based on clinical efficacy data 
gathered in individuals at risk of infection during an Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The most common side 
effects are injection-site reactions (pain, swelling and erythema), headache, pyrexia, myalgia, fatigue and 
arthralgia.  
The full indication is: “Ervebo is indicated for active immunization of individuals 18 years of age or older to 
protect against Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) caused by Zaire Ebolavirus. The use of Ervebo should be in 
accordance with official recommendations”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
