26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/223395/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xromi 
hydroxycarbamide 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xromi, intended for the 
prevention of vaso-occlusive complications of sickle cell disease in patients over 2 years of age. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited. 
Xromi will be available as a 100 mg/ml oral solution. The active substance of Xromi is hydroxycarbamide, a 
ribonucleotide reductase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XX05) which acts by interfering with the synthesis of DNA, 
without interfering with the synthesis of ribonucleic acid or protein. 
The benefits with Xromi are its ability to reduce the vaso-occlusive complications of sickle cell disease. The 
most common side effects are bone marrow depression including neutropenia, reticulocytopenia, 
macrocytosis, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, headache, dizziness, nausea, constipation, skin ulcer, oral, nail 
and skin hyperpigmentation, dry skin and alopecia. 
Xromi is a hybrid medicine2 of Hydrea which has been authorised in the EU since 29 May 1986. Xromi 
contains the same active substance as Hydrea but is authorised for a different indication. Hydrea is 
authorised for the treatment of certain cancers. 
The full indication is: “prevention of vaso-occlusive complications of sickle cell disease in patients over 2 
years of age.” It is proposed that Xromi be prescribed by a physician or other healthcare professionals 
experienced in the management of patients with sickle cell disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
