17 February 2011 
EMA/CHMP/82326/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue 
methylthioninium chloride 
On 17 February 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue 5 mg/ml solution for injection intended for the treatment of 
medicinal and chemical products- induced methaemoglobinaemia. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Provepharm S.A.S. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is methylthioninium chloride (also called 
methylene blue), a substance belonging to the group of antidotes (ATC code: V03AB17), it speeds up 
the conversion of methaemoglobin to haemoglobin. 
The benefits with Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue are that it is a single most documented and 
clinically used substance to treat drug- and chemical induced methaemoglobinaemia. The clinical 
experience of methylthioninium chloride has demonstrated its efficacy to reverse most cases of 
induced methaemoglobinaemia. The most common side effects are nausea, abdominal and chest pain, 
headache, dizziness, tremors, anxiety, confusional state, dyspnoea, tachycardia, hypertension, the 
formation of methaemoglobinaemia and hyperhidrosis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Acute symptomatic treatment of medicinal and chemical products- induced 
methaemoglobinaemia. Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is indicated in adults, children and 
adolescents (aged 0 to 17 years).” It is proposed that Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue is 
prescribed by a healthcare professional. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue and therefore recommends 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Methylthioninium chloride Proveblue  
EMA/CHMP/82326/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
