23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/461869/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ivabradine Anpharm 
ivabradine 
On 23 July 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation based on an informed consent 
application for the medicinal product Ivabradine Anpharm, intended for the treatment of stable chronic 
angina pectoris and chronic heart failure. The applicant for this medicinal product is ANPHARM 
Przedsiębiorstwo Farmaceutyczne S.A. 
Ivabradine Anpharm will be available as 5 mg and 7.5 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Ivabradine Anpharm is ivabradine, a heart-rate lowering agent (ATC code: C01EB17).  
Ivabradine Anpharm works by blocking the ‘If currents’ in the sinus node, the ‘pacemaker’ for the heart 
that controls the heart’s contractions and regulates the heart rate. When these currents are blocked, the 
heart rate is lowered, so that the heart has less work to do and needs less oxygenated blood. Ivabradine 
Anpharm therefore reduces or prevents the symptoms of angina. By lowering the heart rate, it also 
reduces the stress on the heart, thereby slowing the progression of heart failure and improving 
symptoms. 
The benefits with Ivabradine Anpharm are its ability to diminish the symptoms of long-term stable angina 
(pains to the chest, jaw and back, brought on by physical effort) in adults with coronary artery disease 
and to slow the progression of heart failure and to improve the symptoms in heart failure.  
The most common side effect with Ivabradine Anpharm (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is luminous 
phenomena or ‘phosphenes’ (a temporary brightness in the field of vision) and bradycardia. 
The full indication is:  
"Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery 
disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥70 bpm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
• 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
• 
or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal betablocker 
dose. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients in 
sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥  75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including beta-
blocker therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated." 
It is recommended that the treating physician should be experienced in the management of chronic heart 
failure. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ivabradine Anpharm  
EMA/CHMP/461869/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
