15 September 2016  
EMA/CHMP/603734/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ivabradine Zentiva 
ivabradine 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ivabradine 
Zentiva, intended for the treatment of chronic heart failure and symptomatic treatment of chronic stable 
angina pectoris. The applicant for this medicinal product is Zentiva, k.s. 
Ivabradine Zentiva will be available as 5 mg and 7.5 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Ivabradine Zentiva is ivabradine, a heart rate lowering agent (ATC code: C01EB17) that acts by selective 
and specific inhibition of the cardiac pacemaker If current that controls the spontaneous diastolic 
depolarisation in the sinus node and regulates heart rate.  
Ivabradine Zentiva is a generic of Procoralan, which has been authorised in the EU since the 25 October 
2005. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ivabradine Zentiva and its bioequivalence to 
the reference product Procoralan. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
"Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery 
disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥ 70 beats per minute (bpm). Ivabradine 
is indicated: 
• 
• 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contraindication to the use of β-blockers, or 
in combination with β-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal β-blocker dose. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients in 
sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including β-
blocker therapy or when β-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated".  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ivabradine Zentiva  
EMA/CHMP/603734/2016 
Page 2/2 
  
  
