10 November 2016  
EMA/CHMP/697437/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tadalafil Generics 
tadalafil 
On 10 November 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tadalafil 
Generics, intended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in adults. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Tadalafil Generics will be available as 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tadalafil 
Generics is tadalafil (ATC code: G04BE08), a potent and selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate (cGMP) specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). Tadalafil increases cGMP within 
pulmonary vascular smooth muscle cells resulting in relaxation. In patients with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension this can lead to vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed. 
Tadalafil Generics is a generic of Adcirca which has been authorised in the EU since 1 October 2016. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Tadalafil Generics, and its bioequivalence to 
Adcirca. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
“Treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional 
class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1).  
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to collagen vascular disease.” 
It is proposed that Tadalafil Generics be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
