1 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/174469/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Darzalex 
daratumumab 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Darzalex, 
intended for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Darzalex was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 17 July 2013. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V. 
Darzalex will be available as a 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Darzalex is daratumumab, an IgG1κ human monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC24) that binds to the 
CD38 protein and potently inhibits the in-vivo growth of CD38-expressing tumour cells. 
The benefit with Darzalex is its ability to achieve responses in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma. The most frequently reported adverse reactions were infusion-related reactions, which 
occurred in 48% of patients. Other frequently reported adverse reactions (in ≥20% of patients) were 
fatigue, pyrexia, cough, nausea, back pain, upper respiratory tract infection, anaemia, neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia. 
The full indication is:  
"Darzalex as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma, whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent 
and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.”  
Darzalex should be administered by a healthcare professional, in an environment where resuscitation 
facilities are available.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
