21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/522766/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma 
telmisartan 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma, 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg, tablets intended for the treatment of essential 
hypertension in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request 
a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing 
of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Telmisartan Teva Pharma is telmisartan, an Angiotensin II-antagonists 
medicinal product (ATC Code: C09CA07) that displaces angiotensin II from its binding site at the AT1 
receptor subtype, which is responsible for the known actions of angiotensin II. 
Telmisartan Teva Pharma is a generic of Micardis, which has been authorised in the EU since 16 
December 1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Telmisartan Teva Pharma, and 
its bioequivalence with Micardis. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here.  
The approved indication is: Treatment of essential hypertension in adults.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Telmisartan Teva Pharma and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
