is TEVA GmbH. 
fumarate Teva, intended for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The applicant for this medicinal product 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva will be available as 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules. The 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva 
dimethyl fumarate 
13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/790837/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dimethyl 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
(ATC code: L04AX07). It primarily acts by triggering the activation of the nuclear factor (erythroid-
2014. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dimethyl fumarate Teva, and its 
active substance of Dimethyl fumarate Teva is dimethyl fumarate, an immunosuppressant 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) transcriptional pathway. 
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of multiple 
granted by the European Commission. 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is a generic of Tecfidera, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 January 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 
sclerosis. 
bioequivalence to the reference product Tecfidera. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
