25 July 2019 
EMA/CHMP/376612/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Deferasirox Mylan 
deferasirox 
On 25 July 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Deferasirox Mylan, 
intended for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients with beta 
thalassaemia major, non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes and other anaemias. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Deferasirox Mylan will be available as 90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance 
of Deferasirox Mylan is deferasirox, an iron binding agent (ATC code: V03AC03) that is highly selective for 
iron (III) and promotes excretion of iron primarily in the faeces. 
Deferasirox Mylan is a generic of Exjade, which has been authorised in the EU since 28 August 2006. Studies 
have demonstrated satisfactory quality of Deferasirox Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference product 
Exjade. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Deferasirox Mylan is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions (>7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major 
aged 6 years and older. 
Deferasirox Mylan is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood 
transfusions when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient 
groups: 
• 
• 
• 
in paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions (>7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
in adult and paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to 
infrequent blood transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and 
older, 
in adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Deferasirox Mylan is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation 
therapy when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with 
non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older.” 
It is proposed that Deferasirox Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of chronic 
iron overload. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Deferasirox Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/376612/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
