28 June 2018 
EMA/CHMP/419463/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cablivi 
caplacizumab 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cablivi, 
intended for the treatment of acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (aTTP). Cablivi was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 30 April 2009. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Ablynx NV. 
Cablivi will be available as a 10 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Cablivi is caplacizumab, a humanised bivalent nanobody that inhibits the interaction between von 
Willebrand factor and platelets (ATC code: B01AX07). As a result, caplacizumab prevents von Willebrand 
factor-mediated platelet adhesion, which is characteristic of aTTP. It also affects the disposition of von 
Willebrand factor, leading to transient reductions of total von Willebrand factor antigen levels and to 
concomitant reduction of factor VIII:C levels during treatment. 
The benefits with Cablivi are its ability to reduce time to platelet count response, the recurrence rate of 
the disease, the number of days of plasma exchange, the volume of plasma used, and the length of 
hospitalization and intensive care unit stay. The most common side effects are bleedings. Other most 
common adverse reactions were pyrexia, fatigue, headache, urticaria, injection site reaction, myalgia, 
injection site pruritus, injection site erythema, cerebral infarction, dyspnoea. 
The full indication is: "Cablivi is indicated for the treatment of adults experiencing an episode of acquired 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (aTTP), in conjunction with plasma exchange and 
immunosuppression." 
It is proposed that Cablivi be prescribed and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
management of patients with thrombotic microangiopathies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
