10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/601178/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Heplisav B 
hepatitis B surface antigen 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Heplisav B, 
intended for the active immunisation against hepatitis B virus infection (HBV). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Dynavax GmbH. 
Heplisav B will be available as solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. The active substance in Heplisav 
B, a hepatitis vaccine, is a hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) (ATC code: J07BC01). Heplisav B induces 
specific humoral antibodies against HBsAg.  Antibody concentrations of at least 10 mIU/mL against HBsAg 
are recognised to confer protection against hepatitis B virus infection. 
The benefits with Heplisav B are its ability to induce protective levels of antibody after the second dose of 
the vaccine. Heplisav B contains an adjuvant, a substance which improves the body’s production of 
antibodies and makes the protection last longer. 
The most common side effects are headache, muscle aches, feeling tired, pain at the spot where the 
injection was given, feeling unwell (malaise). 
The full indication is:  
Heplisav B is indicated for the active immunisation against hepatitis B virus infection (HBV) 
caused by all known subtypes of hepatitis B virus in adults 18 years of age and older. 
The use of Heplisav B should be in accordance with official recommendations.  
It can be expected that hepatitis D will also be prevented by immunisation with Heplisav B as 
hepatitis D (caused by the delta agent) does not occur in the absence of hepatitis B infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
