1 April 2016  
EMA/CHMP/228011/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Humira 
adalimumab 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Humira. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication in paediatric Crohn's disease as follows2:  
"Humira is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in 
paediatric patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional 
therapy including primary nutrition therapy, and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, 
or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies." 
For information, the full indications for Humira will be as follows: 
"Rheumatoid arthritis 
Humira in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate. 
Humira can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Humira has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Humira in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate 
response to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Humira can be given 
as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with 
methotrexate is inappropriate. (for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Humira has not 
been studied in patients aged less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of 
age and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional 
therapy (see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis  
Ankylosing spondylitis(AS) 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have 
had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without 
radiographic evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and / or 
MRI, who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when 
the response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Humira has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured 
by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see Section 5.1) and 
to improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult 
patients who failed to respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other 
systemic therapy including cyclosporine, methotrexate or PUVA. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and 
adolescents from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate 
candidates for topical therapy and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Humira is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adult patients with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy. 
Crohn’s disease 
Humira is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult 
patients who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a 
Humira  
EMA/CHMP/228011/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
  
  
corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies.  
Paediatric Crohn's disease  
Humira is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in 
paediatric patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional 
therapy including primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or 
who are intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Humira is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids 
and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Humira  
EMA/CHMP/228011/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
  
  
