10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/623370/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kixelle 
insulin aspart 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kixelle, 
intended for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited. 
Kixelle will be available as a solution for injection (100 units/ml). The active substance of Kixelle is insulin 
aspart, a fast-acting insulin analogue (ATC code: A10AB05) which is absorbed more rapidly by the body 
and can therefore act faster than human insulin. The replacement insulin acts in the same way as 
naturally produced insulin; it works by facilitating uptake of glucose into skeletal muscle and fat tissue, 
and by inhibiting glucose output from the liver. 
Kixelle is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product NovoRapid (insulin 
aspart), which was authorised in the EU on 7 September 1999. Data show that Kixelle has comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy to NovoRapid. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Kixelle is indicated for treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and children aged 
1 year and above. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
