15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/698691/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Exjade 
deferasirox 
On 15 November 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Exjade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"EXJADE is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation therapy when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Exjade will be as follows2: 
EXJADE is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions 
(7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and 
older. 
EXJADE is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient groups: 
- 
- 
in patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions 
(7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
in patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to infrequent blood 
transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and older, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
- 
in patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
EXJADE is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation 
therapy when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with non-
transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older. 
Exjade 
EMA/CHMP/698691/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
