25 April 2014 
EMA/243755/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Gilenya 
fingolimod 
On 25 April 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Gilenya. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
Gilenya is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following adult patient groups: 
- 
Patients with high disease activity despite treatment with at least one disease modifying 
therapy (for exceptions and information about washout periods see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). 
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course 
(normally at least one year of treatment) of at least one disease modifying therapy. Patients 
should have had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 T2-
hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” 
could also be defined as a patient with an unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe 
relapses, as compared to the previous year. 
or 
- 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI or 
a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Gilenya 
EMA/243755/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
