25 June 2015 
EMA/CHMP/304387/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Farydak 
panobinostat 
On 25 June 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Farydak, 
intended for the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma. Farydak was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 8 November 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. 
Farydak will be available as capsules of 10, 15 and 20 mg. The active substance of Farydak is 
panobinostat, a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor (ATC code: L01XX42) that inhibits the enzymatic 
activity of HDACs resulting in increased acetylation of histone proteins, leading to transcriptional 
activation.  
The benefits with Farydak, in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, are its ability to delay 
the progression of disease. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, 
thrombocytopenia, anaemia, neutropenia and lymphopenia. 
The full indication is: ‘‘Farydak, in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least 
two prior regimens including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent". It is proposed that treatment 
with Farydak should be initiated by a physician experienced in the use of anti-cancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
