26 June 2014 
EMA/CHMP/204589/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Velphoro 
mixture of polynuclear iron(III)-oxyhydroxide, sucrose, and starches  
On 26 June 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Velphoro, 
chewable tablet 500 mg iron as sucroferric oxyhydroxide indicated for the control of serum phosphorus 
levels in adult chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients on haemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma France. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Velphoro is a mixture of polynuclear iron(III)-oxyhydroxide, sucrose, and 
starches  also known as sucroferric oxyhydroxide,  which is used for treatment of 
hyperphosphataemia; ATC code: V03AE05. Phosphate binding takes place by ligand exchange between 
hydroxyl groups and/or water and the phosphate ions throughout the physiological pH range of the 
gastrointestinal tract. Serum phosphorus levels are reduced as a consequence of the reduced dietary 
phosphate absorption.  
The benefits with Velphoro are its ability to reduce serum phosphorus in patients on maintenance 
dialyses with an acceptable safety profile based on data up to one year. The most common side effects 
are abnormal product taste and gastrointestinal disorders. The vast majority of these gastrointestinal 
disorders occurred early during treatment and abated over time with continued dosing. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Velphoro chewable tablet will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is to control serum phosphorus levels in adult chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
patients on haemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 75237455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Velphoro chewable tablet and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Velphoro 
EMA/CHMP/204589/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
