6 December 2021  
EMA/CHMP/683450/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
RoActemra 
tocilizumab 
On 6 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
RoActemra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults who are 
receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen or mechanical ventilation. 
For information, the full indications for RoActemra will be as follows: 
RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not previously 
treated with MTX.  
the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. 
In these patients, RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate.   
RoActemra has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adults who are 
receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen or mechanical ventilation. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 1 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with NSAIDs 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and systemic corticosteroids. RoActemra can be given as monotherapy (in case of intolerance to MTX 
or where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
RoActemra in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile 
idiopathic polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with MTX. 
RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment 
with MTX is inappropriate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult patients. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-induced severe or 
life-threatening cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in adults and paediatric patients 2 years of age and 
older. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
RoActemra  
EMA/CHMP/683450/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
