27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/364710/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Inflectra 
infliximab 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Inflectra, 
100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis, adult Crohn’s disease, paediatric Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, paediatric ulcerative 
colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product 
is Hospira UK Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Inflectra is infliximab, an immunosuppressant (L04AB02). Infliximab is a 
chimeric human-murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of TNFα but not to lymphotoxin α (TNFβ). 
Inflectra is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Remicade (infliximab) 
authorised in the EU since 13 August 1999. Studies have shown Inflectra to have a comparable quality, 
safety and efficacy profile to Remicade (infliximab). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Inflectra will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indications are:  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Inflectra, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in: 
• 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured 
by X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Inflectra is indicated for: 
• 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, 
drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 
to 17 years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, an 
immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for 
such therapies. Infliximab has been studied only in combination with conventional immunosuppressive 
therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 
6 to 17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids 
and 6-MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when 
the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Inflectra should be administered 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Inflectra is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed 
to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
cyclosporine, methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
It is proposed that Inflectra be initiated and supervised by qualified physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, ankylosing spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis. Inflectra is a medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
Inflectra 
EMA/CHMP/364710/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Inflectra and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Inflectra 
EMA/CHMP/364710/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
