22 April 2010 
EMA/CHMP/258896/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Reyataz 
Atazanavir sulphate 
On 22 April 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Reyataz. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Pharma EEIG. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“REYATAZ capsules, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, are indicated for the treatment of HIV 1 
infected adults and paediatric patients 6 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products. 
Based on available virological and clinical data from adult patients, no benefit is expected in patients 
with strains resistant to multiple protease inhibitors (≥ 4 PI mutations). There are very limited data 
available from children aged 6 to less than 18 years (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The choice of REYATAZ in treatment experienced adult and paediatric patients should be based on 
individual viral resistance testing and the patient’s treatment history (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
