24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/380794/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ruconest 
conestat alfa 
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ruconest, 
2100 U, powder for solution for injection intended for the treatment of hereditary angioedema. 
Ruconest was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 11 May 2001. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Pharming Group N.V.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ruconest, conestat alfa (ATC Code not yet assigned), is a recombinant human 
component 1 (C1) esterase inhibitor. C1-inhibitor controls the activation of certain proteins in the 
complement, coagulation, fibrinolytic and contact systems that are involved in inflammation. Patients 
with hereditary angioedema (HAE) caused by C1 inhibitor deficiency experience recurrent attacks of 
angioedema. Replacement therapy with Ruconest relieves the symptoms and reduces the duration of 
these attacks. The most common side effect from taking Ruconest is headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ruconest will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Ruconest is indicated for treatment of acute angioedema attacks in adults 
with hereditary angioedema (HAE) due to C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency.” It is proposed that 
Ruconest is initiated under the guidance and supervision of a physician experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of hereditary angioedema. Ruconest should be administered by a health care 
professional. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ruconest and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Ruconest  
EMA/CHMP/380794/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
