21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/423167/2012  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zyclara 
Imiquimod 
On 21 June 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zyclara, 
3.75 %, cream intended for the topical treatment of clinically typical, visible or palpable actinic 
keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in adults when other topical treatment options are 
contraindicated or less appropriate. The applicant for this medicinal product is Meda AB. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zyclara is imiquimod, an antiviral, (D06BB10). Imiquimod is an immune 
response modifier. It is the lead compound of the imidazoline family. Imiquimod induces the release of 
interferon alpha (IFN-α) and other cytokines from a variety of human and animal cells (e.g. from 
human monocytes/macrophages and keratinocytes).  
Zyclara is a hybrid of Aldara, which has been authorised in the EU since 18 September 1998. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zyclara. Zyclara differs from Aldara in therapeutic 
indication and strength; therefore bioequivalence cannot be demonstrated through bioavailability 
studies and new clinical studies have been carried out. 
The benefits with Zyclara are that it has lower concentration of active substance than Aldara allowing 
the treatment of areas larger than 25 cm2 and a higher number of lesions. The most common side 
effects are local skin reactions (most frequently erythema, scab, and exfoliation/application site 
dryness) at the application site. Some systemic adverse reactions, including headache, fatigue, were 
also reported. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zyclara will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Zyclara is indicated for the topical treatment of clinically typical, 
nonhyperkeratotic, nonhypertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratosis (AK) of the full face or balding 
scalp in immunocompetent adults when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less 
appropriate”. It is proposed that Zyclara is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
actinic keratoses. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Zyclara and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Zyclara  
EMA/CHMP/423167/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
