11 November 2021 
EMA/CHMP/606390/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tecovirimat SIGA 
tecovirimat 
On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Tecovirimat SIGA, intended for the treatment of orthopoxvirus disease (smallpox, 
monkeypox, cowpox, and vaccinia complications). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is SIGA Technologies Netherlands B.V. 
Tecovirimat SIGA will be available as 200 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Tecovirimat SIGA is 
tecovirimat, a synthetic small antiviral molecule (ATC code: J05AX24) which inhibits the activity of the 
orthopoxvirus peripheral membrane protein (VP37), required for production of extracellular forms of 
virus. 
The benefits of Tecovirimat SIGA in humans were predicted from studies showing that it improves 
survival in lethally challenged animals. The most common side effects are headache and nausea. 
The full indication is: 
Tecovirimat SIGA is indicated for the treatment of the following viral infections in adults and children 
with body weight at least 13 kg: 
•  Smallpox 
•  Monkeypox 
•  Cowpox 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tecovirimat SIGA is also indicated to treat complications due to replication of vaccinia virus following 
vaccination against smallpox, in adults and children with body weight at least 13 kg (see sections 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Tecovirimat SIGA should be used in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tecovirimat SIGA  
EMA/CHMP/606390/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
