European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/232469/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
APTIVUS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tipranavir 
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Aptivus.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows***: 
Aptivus, co-administered with low dose ritonavir, is indicated for combination antiretroviral treatment 
of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated adult- and adolescent- patients 12 years of age or older with 
virus  resistant  to  multiple  protease  inhibitors.  Aptivus  should  only  be  used  as  part  of  an  active 
combination antiretroviral regimen in patients with no other therapeutic options. 
This indication is based on the results of two phase III studies, performed in highly pre-treated adult 
patients  (median  number  of  12  prior  antiretroviral  agents)  with  virus  resistant  to  protease  inhibitors 
and  of  one  phase  II  study  investigating  pharmacokinetics,  safety  and  efficacy  of  APTIVUS  in 
mostly treatment-experienced adolescent patients aged 12 to 18 years (see section 5.1).  
In  deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  Aptivus,  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir,  careful 
consideration  should  be  given  to  the  treatment  history  of  the  individual  patient  and  the  patterns  of 
mutations  associated  with  different  agents.  Genotypic  or  phenotypic  testing  (when  available)  and 
treatment history should guide the use of Aptivus. Initiation of treatment should take into account the 
combinations  of  mutations  which  may  negatively  impact  the  virological  response  to  Aptivus,  co-
administered with low dose ritonavir (see section 5.1). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
