12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/515208/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Dificlir 
fidaxomicin 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Dificlir. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication for the film-coated tablets as follows:2 
“DIFICLIR film-coated tablets is indicated in adults for the treatment of Clostridium 
Clostridioides difficile infections (CDI) also known as C. difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) in 
adult and paediatric patients with a body weight of at least 12.5 kg (see section 4.2 and 
5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidelines on the appropriate use of antibacterial 
agents.” 
The CHMP also recommended approval of a new pharmaceutical form: Dificlir, granules for oral 
suspension (40 mg/ml). The granules for oral suspension are indicated for: “the treatment of 
Clostridioides difficile infections (CDI) also known as C. difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) in adults and 
paediatric patients from birth to < 18 years of age (see section 4.2 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidelines on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
