20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/275743/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Entecavir Mylan 
entecavir 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Entecavir 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan 
S.A.S. 
Entecavir Mylan will be available as 0.5 mg and 1 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Entecavir Mylan is entecavir, an antiviral (ATC code: J05AF10). Entecavir is a nucleoside analogue that 
blocks an enzyme of the hepatitis B virus, DNA polymerase, and prevents the virus from multiplying and 
spreading.  
Entecavir Mylan is a generic of Baraclude, which has been authorised in the EU since 26 June 2006. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Entecavir Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Baraclude. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Entecavir Mylan is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (see 
section 5.1) in adults with:   
• 
compensated liver disease and evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis.   
•  decompensated liver disease (see section 4.4).  
For both compensated and decompensated liver disease, this indication is based on clinical trial data 
in nucleoside-naive patients with HBeAg positive and HBeAg negative HBV infection. With respect to 
patients with lamivudine-refractory hepatitis B, see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1.  
Entecavir Mylan is also indicated for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in nucleoside-naive 
paediatric patients from 2 to <18 years of age with compensated liver disease who have evidence of 
active viral replication and persistently elevated serum ALT levels, or histological evidence of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
moderate to severe inflammation and/or fibrosis. With respect to the decision to initiate treatment in 
paediatric patients, see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1." 
It is proposed that Entecavir Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of 
chronic hepatitis B infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Entecavir Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/275743/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
