19 September 2019  
EMA/CHMP/510409/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Taxotere  
docetaxel 
On 19 September 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Taxotere. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Aventis Pharma S.A. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication as follows: 
“TAXOTERE in combination with androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT), with or without prednisone 
or prednisolone, is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive 
prostate cancer.” 
For information, the full indications for Taxotere will be as follows: 2 
“Breast cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
• 
• 
operable node positive breast cancer 
operable node-negative breast cancer 
For patients with operable node negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for 
primary therapy of early breast cancer (see section 5.1). 
TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
TAXOTERE monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
TAXOTERE in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
TAXOTERE in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy 
should have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
TAXOTERE is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition. 
Prostate cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. 
TAXOTERE in combination with androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT), with or without 
prednisone or prednisolone, is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic 
hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and 5 fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal 
junction, who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and 5 fluorouracil is indicated for the induction treatment 
of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Taxotere  
EMA/CHMP/510409/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
