28 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/269366/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Afinitor 
everolimus 
On 28 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Afinitor. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Neuroendocrine tumours of gastrointestinal or lung origin 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated (Grade 1 
or Grade 2) non-functional neuroendocrine tumours of gastrointestinal or lung origin in adults 
with progressive disease (see sections 4.4 and 5.1)". 
For information, the full indications for Afinitor will be as follows2: 
"Hormone receptor positive advanced breast cancer 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of hormone receptor positive, HER2/neu negative advanced 
breast cancer, in combination with exemestane, in postmenopausal women without symptomatic 
visceral disease after recurrence or progression following a non steroidal aromatase inhibitor. 
Neuroendocrine tumours of pancreatic origin 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well  or moderately 
differentiated neuroendocrine tumours of pancreatic origin in adults with progressive disease. 
Neuroendocrine tumours of gastrointestinal or lung origin 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated 
(Grade 1 or Grade 2) non-functional neuroendocrine tumours of gastrointestinal or lung 
origin in adults with progressive disease (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Afinitor is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, whose 
disease has progressed on or after treatment with VEGF targeted therapy." 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Afinitor  
EMA/CHMP/269366/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
