15 December 2011 
EMA/CHMP/963751/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Procoralan 
ivabradine 
On  15  December  2011,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Procoralan.  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Les 
Laboratoires  Servier.  They  may  request  a  re  examination  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  provided  that  they 
notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of  their  intention  within  15  days  of  receipt  of  the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Treatment of chronic heart failure  
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients 
in  sinus  rhythm  and  whose  heart  rate  is  ≥  75  bpm,  in  combination  with  standard  therapy  including 
beta-blocker  therapy  or  when  beta-blocker  therapy  is  contraindicated  or  not  tolerated.  (see  section 
5.1)” 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
- 
- 
“Unstable or acute heart failure 
Pacemaker dependent (heart rate imposed exclusively by the pacemaker) 
The 
CHMP 
adopted 
the 
removal 
of 
a 
contraindication 
as 
follows: 
“Heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification III-IV” 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  updated  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  public  assessment  report 
(EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Procoralan will be as follows2: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
“Treatment of coronary artery disease 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery disease adults with normal 
sinus rhythm. Ivabradine is indicated : 
- 
-  or  in  combination  with  beta-blockers  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  with  an  optimal  beta-
  blocker dose and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm. 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, 
in patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination with standard 
therapy including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or 
not tolerated. (see section 5.1)” 
For information, the full contraindications for Procoralan will be as follows3: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
“Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients (see section 6.1) 
Resting heart rate below 60 beats per minute prior to treatment 
Cardiogenic shock 
Acute myocardial infarction 
Severe hypotension (< 90/50 mmHg) 
Severe hepatic insufficiency 
Sick sinus syndrome 
Sino-atrial block 
Unstable or acute heart failure 
Pacemaker dependent (heart rate imposed exclusively by the pacemaker) 
Unstable angina 
AV-block of 3rd degree 
Combination with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals (ketoconazole, 
itraconazole),  macrolide  antibiotics 
josamycin, 
telithromycin),  HIV  protease  inhibitors  (nelfinavir,  ritonavir)  and  nefazodone  (see  sections  4.5 
and 5.2) 
Pregnancy, lactation (see section 4.6)” 
(clarithromycin,  erythromycin  per  os, 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
Procoralan 
EMA/CHMP/963751/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                    
 
 
 
 
