27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/355942/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Procysbi  
mercaptamine  
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product  Procysbi,  
25 mg, 75 mg, gastro-resistant capsules, hard  intended for the treatment of nephropathic cystinosis. 
Procysbi was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 20 September 2010. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Raptor Pharmaceuticals Europe B.V. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Procysbi is mercaptamine, an “other alimentary tract and metabolism” product 
(ATC Code: A16AA04). Mercaptamine participates within lysosomes in a thiol disulfide interchange 
reaction converting cystine into cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfide, both of which can 
exit the lysosome in patients with cystinosis.  
The benefits with Procysbi are its ability to reduce cystine accumulation in some cells (e.g. leukocytes, 
muscle and liver cells) of nephropathic cystinosis patients and, when treatment is started early, it 
delays the development of renal failure. The most common side effects are gastrointestinal disorders 
such as vomiting, nausea, diarrhoea. Other very common side effects are: anorexia, lethargy, pyrexia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Procysbi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Procysbi is indicated for the treatment of proven nephropathic cystinosis. 
Cysteamine reduces cystine accumulation in some cells (e.g. leukocytes, muscle and liver cells) of 
nephropathic cystinosis patients and, when treatment is started early, it delays the development of 
renal failure". It is proposed that Procysbi be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cystinosis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Procysbi and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Procysbi (mercaptamine bitartrate) 
 EMA/CHMP/355942/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
