10 November 2022 
EMA/CHMP/846957/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pirfenidone Viatris 
pirfenidone 
On 10 November 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pirfenidone 
Viatris, intended for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Viatris Limited. 
Pirfenidone Viatris will be available as 267 mg, 534 mg and 801 mg film-coated tablets. The active 
substance of Pirfenidone Viatris is pirfenidone, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AX05). Its 
mechanism of action has not been fully established, but existing data suggest that pirfenidone exerts 
both antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory properties. 
Pirfenidone Viatris is a generic of Esbriet, which has been authorised in the EU since 2 March 2011. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pirfenidone Viatris, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Esbriet. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Pirfenidone is indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate idiopathic pulmonary 
fibrosis (IPF). 
Pirfenidone Viatris should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of IPF.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
