21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/617852/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Illuzyce 
lutetium (177lu) chloride 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Illuzyce, a 
radiopharmaceutical precursor. Illuzyce is not intended for direct use in patients and must be used only 
for the radiolabelling of carrier medicines that have been specifically developed and authorised for 
radiolabelling with lutetium (177Lu) chloride. The applicant for this medicinal product is Billev Pharma ApS. 
Illuzyce will be available as a solution containing 51.8 GBq/ml radiopharmaceutical precursor. The active 
substance of Illuzyce is lutetium (177Lu) chloride, a radioactive isotope of lutetium that emits beta- and 
gamma-radiation (ATC code: V10X). The effect of Illuzyce depends on the nature of the carrier medicine 
radiolabelled with the product. 
The clinical utility of 177lutetium when attached to relevant carrier medicines was demonstrated based on 
an extensive review of the literature, for example in the treatment of patients with neuroendocrine 
tumours or prostate cancer. Unfavourable effects relating to radiation exposure can occur with Illuzyce, 
as is the case with all radionuclides in clinical use. These effects, which include carcinogenicity and 
mutagenicity, will depend both on the radiation characteristics of lutetium (177Lu) chloride in Illuzyce and 
on the carrier medicine to which the product is labelled.  
In addition to radiation exposure for the patient, there is also a risk of radiation exposure for individuals 
in close proximity to the patient. A judgement on whether these risks are acceptable in any particular 
case can only be made in subsequent applications for carrier medicines intending to use Illuzyce as a 
radiolabel. 
The full indication is: 
Illuzyce is a radiopharmaceutical precursor, and it is not intended for direct use in patients. It is 
to be used only for the radiolabelling of carrier molecules that have been specifically developed 
and authorised for radiolabelling with lutetium (177Lu) chloride. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illuzyce should be used by specialists experienced with in vitro radiolabelling. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Illuzyce  
EMA/CHMP/617852/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
