25 April 2014 
EMA/CHMP/197424/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mekinist 
trametinib 
On 25 April 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Mekinist, 
0.5, 1 and 2 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma 
with a BRAF V600 mutation. The applicant for this medicinal product is Glaxo Group Ltd. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Mekinist is trametinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE25) that inhibits 
mitogen-activated extracellular signal regulated kinase 1 (MEK1) and MEK2 activation and kinase 
activity. 
The benefits with Mekinist are its ability to improve overall survival and progression free survival in 
melanoma patients with a BRAF V600 mutation compared to chemotherapy. The most common side 
effects are rash, diarrhoea, fatigue, oedema peripheral, nausea, and dermatitis acneiform. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mekinist will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Trametinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation. Trametinib has not demonstrated 
clinical activity in patients who have progressed on a prior BRAF inhibitor therapy (see section 5.1)." It 
is proposed that Mekinist be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the administration 
of anti-cancer medicinal products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Mekinist and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Mekinist 
EMA/CHMP/197424/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
