14 September 2023 
EMA/CHMP/400511/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Herwenda 
trastuzumab 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Herwenda, 
intended for the treatment of HER2-positive breast and gastric cancer. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Sandoz GmbH. 
Herwenda will be available as a 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Herwenda is trastuzumab, a HER2 inhibitor (ATC code: L01FD01) that binds with high 
affinity and specificity to HER2, inhibiting proliferation of tumour cells that overexpress HER2. 
Herwenda is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Herceptin 
(trastuzumab), which was authorised in the EU on 28 August 2000. Data show that Herwenda has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Herceptin. More information on biosimilar medicines can be 
found here. 
The full indication is: 
Breast cancer 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Herwenda is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2) positive metastatic breast cancer (MBC): 
-
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two
chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have
included at least an anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these
treatments. Hormone-receptor positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy,
unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
-  
in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
-  
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
-  
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients 
with hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
Early breast cancer 
Herwenda is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer 
(EBC): 
-  
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) 
(see section 5.1). 
-  
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination 
with paclitaxel or docetaxel. 
-  
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
- 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant Herwenda therapy, for 
locally advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Herwenda should only be used in patients with metastatic or EBC whose tumours have either 
HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated 
assay (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Herwenda in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or 
gastro-esophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their 
metastatic disease. 
Herwenda should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours 
have HER2 overexpression as defined by immunohistochemistry staining intensity of 2+ 
(IHC2+) and a confirmatory silver in situ hybridisation (SISH) or fluorescence in situ 
hybridisation (FISH) result, or by an IHC3+ result. Accurate and validated assay methods should 
be used (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Herwenda treatment should only be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy and should be administered by a healthcare professional only. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Herwenda  
EMA/CHMP/400511/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
