European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/245770/2009 corr.(cid:103) 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
REPAGLINIDE TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): repaglinide 
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Repaglinide 
Teva 0.5 mg, 1mg and 2 mg, tablets intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Repaglinide  Teva  is  Repaglinide,  a  short-acting  oral  secretagogue  that  is  a 
carbamoylmethyl  benzoid  acid  derivative  (ATC  code:  A10B  X02).  Repaglinide  lowers  the  blood 
glucose  levels  acutely  by  stimulating  the  release  of  insulin  from  the  pancreas,  an  effect  dependent 
upon functioning β-cells in the pancreatic islets.  
Repaglinide Teva is a generic of NovoNorm,  which has been authorised in the EU since  17 August 
1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Repaglinide Teva, and its bioequivalence 
with NovoNorm. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Repaglinide  is  indicated  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  (Non 
Insulin-Dependent  Diabetes  Mellitus  (NIDDM))  whose  hyperglycaemia  can  no  longer  be  controlled 
satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction and exercise. Repaglinide is also indicated in combination with 
metformin  in  type  2  diabetes  patients  who  are  not  satisfactorily  controlled  on  metformin  alone. 
Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation 
to meals.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Repaglinide Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
(cid:103)  
* 
** 
Correction: In third paragraph, second line the incorrect product name Rivstigminie Teva has been 
replaced with the correct one Repaglinide Teva. 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45   
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
