European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 November 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/567028/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for 
TEMOMEDAC 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): temozolomide 
On  19  November  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Temomedac, 5, 20, 100, 140, 180 and 250 mg, hard capsules intended for treatment of glioblastoma 
and  malignant  glioma.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Alfred  E.  Tiefenbacher  GmbH  & 
Co. KG. 
The  active  substance  of  Temomedac  is  temozolomide,  an  antineoplastic  and  immunomodulating 
agent. Temozolomide (TMZ) is a triazene, which undergoes rapid chemical conversion at physiologic 
pH  to  the  active  monomethyl  triazenoimidazole  carboxamide  (MTIC).  The  cytotoxicity  of  MTIC  is 
thought to be due primarily to alkylation at the O6 position of guanine with additional alkylation also 
occurring  at  the  N7  position.  Cytotoxic  lesions  that  develop  subsequently  are  thought  to  involve 
aberrant repair of the methyl adduct.  
Temomedac  is  a  generic  of  Temodal,  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since  26  January  1999. 
Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Temomedac  and  its  bioequivalence  with 
Temodal. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Temomedac, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part 
of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indications are as follows:  
- 
- 
the 
treatment  of  adult  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  glioblastoma  multiforme 
For 
concomitantly with radiotherapy (RT) and subsequently as monotherapy treatment. 
For  the  treatment  of  children  from  the  age  of  three  years,  adolescents  and  adult  patients  with 
malignant  glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing 
recurrence or progression after standard therapy. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Temomedac  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
