20 May 2021  
EMA/283685/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Galvus 
vildagliptin 
On 20 May 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Galvus. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the existing indication as follows:2  
Vildagliptin is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in 
adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
•  as monotherapy in patients in whom metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications 
or intolerance. 
• 
in  combination  with  other  medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  diabetes,  including 
insulin, when these do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 
5.1 for available data on different combinations). 
Vildagliptin is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults: 
As monotherapy 
• 
in  patients  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  alone  and  for  whom  metformin  is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
As dual oral therapy in combination with 
•  metformin,  in  patients  with  insufficient  glycaemic  control  despite  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
monotherapy with metformin, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose of a 
sulphonylurea and for whom metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance, 
• 
a  thiazolidinedione,  in  patients  with  insufficient  glycaemic  control  and  for  whom  the  use  of  a 
thiazolidinedione is appropriate. 
As triple oral therapy in combination with 
• 
a  sulphonylurea  and  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  dual  therapy  with  these  medicinal 
products do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Vildagliptin is also indicated for use in combination with insulin (with or without metformin) when diet 
and exercise plus a stable dose of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Galvus  
EMA/283685/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
