22 April 2022 
EMA/CHMP/188166/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Filsuvez 
birch bark extract  
On 22 April 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Filsuvez2, 
intended for the treatment of epidermolysis bullosa (EB). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC. 
Filsuvez will be available as a gel for cutaneous use. The active substance of Filsuvez is birch bark extract 
(as dry extract, refined) from Betula pendula Roth/Betula pubescens Ehrh. (equivalent to 0.5-1.0 g birch 
bark), including 84-95 mg triterpenes calculated as the sum of betulin, betulinic acid, erythrodiol, lupeol 
and oleanolic acid. It is thought to work by modulating inflammatory mediators and stimulating 
keratinocyte differentiation and migration, thereby promoting wound healing and closure. 
The benefit of Filsuvez is its ability to promote healing of EB partial thickness wounds. The most common 
side effects are wound complications, application site reactions, wound infections, pruritus and 
hypersensitivity reactions. 
The full indication is: 
Treatment of partial thickness wounds associated with dystrophic and junctional epidermolysis 
bullosa (EB) in patients 6 months and older. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
