12 November 2020              
EMA/CHMP/593876/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Roclanda 
latanoprost / netarsudil 
On 12 November 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Roclanda, 
intended for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with primary open-
angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy with a prostaglandin or netarsudil 
provides insufficient IOP reduction. The applicant for this medicinal product is Aerie Pharmaceuticals 
Ireland Limited. 
Roclanda will be available as 50 µg/ml /200 µg/ml Eye drops, solution. The active substances of Roclanda 
are latanoprost (a prostaglandin analogue) and netasurdil (a rho kinase inhibitor). 
The benefit with Roclanda is its ability to reduce intra-ocular pressure. The most common side effects is 
conjunctival hyperemia. 
The full indication is: “Roclanda is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in 
adult patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy with a 
prostaglandin or netarsudil provides insufficient IOP reduction”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
