13 December 2018  
EMA/CHMP/840868/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Sprycel 
dasatinib 
On 13 December 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Sprycel. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to its existing paediatric indication to include the treatment of “newly 
diagnosed Ph+ ALL in combination with chemotherapy.” 
For information, the full indications for Sprycel will be as follows: 2 
“Sprycel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
•  newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) in 
the chronic phase.  
• 
• 
chronic, accelerated or blast phase CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including 
imatinib mesilate. 
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoid blast CML with resistance or intolerance to 
prior therapy. 
Sprycel is indicated for the treatment of paediatric patients with: 
•  newly diagnosed Ph+ CML in chronic phase (Ph+ CML-CP) or Ph+ CML-CP resistant or intolerant to 
prior therapy including imatinib. 
•  newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL in combination with chemotherapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
