14 September 2017  
EMA/CHMP/541227/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ritonavir Mylan 
ritonavir 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ritonavir 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan 
S.A.S. 
Ritonavir Mylan will be available as 100 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Ritonavir Mylan is 
ritonavir, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AE03). Ritonavir is an inhibitor of the viral protease 
enzyme, which is key for viral replication; however, in small doses it is used in combination with other 
protease inhibitors to slow down the rate at which the latter are metabolised by the liver. 
Ritonavir Mylan is a generic of Norvir, which has been authorised in the EU since 26 August 1996. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ritonavir Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Norvir. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: "Ritonavir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the 
treatment of HIV 1 infected patients (adults and children of 2 years of age and older)". It is proposed that 
Ritonavir Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
