26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/432508/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Deferiprone Lipomed 
deferiprone 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Deferiprone 
Lipomed, intended for the treatment of iron overload in patients with thalassaemia major. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Lipomed GmbH. 
Deferiprone Lipomed will be available as 500-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Deferiprone 
Lipomed is deferiprone, an iron chelating agent (ATC code: V03AC02) which binds to iron in a 3 to 1 
molar ratio. 
Deferiprone Lipomed is a generic of Ferriprox, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 August 1999. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Deferiprone Lipomed and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Ferriprox. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Deferiprone Lipomed monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of iron overload in patients with 
thalassaemia major when current chelation therapy is contraindicated or inadequate. 
Deferiprone Lipomed in combination with another chelator (see section 4.4) is indicated in 
patients with thalassaemia major when monotherapy with any iron chelator is ineffective, or when 
prevention or treatment of life-threatening consequences of iron overload justifies rapid or 
intensive correction (see section 4.2).” 
It is proposed that Deferiprone Lipomed be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
patients with thalassaemia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
