20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/688227/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Exviera 
dasabuvir 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Exviera, 250 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in adults in 
combination with other medicinal products. The applicant for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd.
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Exviera is dasabuvir sodium, a non-nucleoside inhibitor of the HCV RNA-
dependent RNA polymerase encoded by the NS5B gene. 
The benefits with Exviera used in combination with other medicinal products are its ability to inhibit 
viral replication in infected host cells which can lead to the eradication of the virus, correlating to a 
cure of chronic hepatitis C virus(HCV) infection, in both non-cirrhotic and compensated cirrhotic 
patients with genotype 1a/1b HCV infection. The most common side effects are fatigue and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Exviera will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Exviera is indicated in combination with other medicinal products for the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1). 
For hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.4 and 5.1."
It is proposed that Exviera be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of the chronic 
hepatitis C infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Exviera and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Exviera 
EMA/CHMP/688227/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
