20 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/847218/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cervarix 
human papillomavirus vaccine [types 16, 18] (recombinant, adjuvanted, 
adsorbed) 
On 20 October 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Cervarix. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline 
Biologicals S.A. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the therapeutic indication to subjects from the age of 9 years for 
the prevention of premalignant cervical lesions and cervical cancer causally related to certain 
oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Cervarix will be as follows2: 
Cervarix is a vaccine for use from the age of 9 years for the prevention of premalignant cervical 
lesions and cervical cancer causally related to certain oncogenic Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for important information on the data that support this indication.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
