14 October 2021 
EMA/CHMP/570740/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sitagliptin SUN 
sitagliptin fumarate 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sitagliptin 
SUN, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Sitagliptin SUN will be available as 25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance 
of Sitagliptin SUN is sitagliptin fumarate, a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor (ATC code: A10BH01) 
which improves glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes by increasing the levels of active 
incretin hormones, leading to enhanced glucose-dependent insulin secretion and reduced glucagon 
release. 
Sitagliptin SUN is a generic of Januvia, which has been authorised in the EU since 21 March 2007. Studies 
have demonstrated Sitagliptin SUN to be of satisfactory quality and bioequivalent to the reference 
product Januvia. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
For adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Sitagliptin SUN is indicated to improve glycaemic 
control:  
as monotherapy: 
•  in patients inadequately controlled by diet and exercise alone and for whom metformin is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
as dual oral therapy in combination with: 
•  metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone 
do not provide adequate glycaemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to 
contraindications or intolerance. 
•  a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) 
when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist 
alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
as triple oral therapy in combination with: 
•  a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these medicinal 
products do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
•  a PPARγ agonist and metformin when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and 
exercise plus dual therapy with these medicinal products do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
Sitagliptin SUN is also indicated as add-on to insulin (with or without metformin) when diet and 
exercise plus stable dose of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Sitagliptin SUN  
EMA/CHMP/570740/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
