25 February 2021 
EMA/CHMP/53909/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jemperli 
dostarlimab 
On 25 February 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Jemperli, intended for the treatment of certain types of recurrent or advanced endometrial cancer. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited. 
Jemperli will be available as a concentrate for solution for infusion (500 mg dostarlimab per 10 ml). The 
active substance of Jemperli is dostarlimab, an antineoplastic monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC40) 
which potentiates T-cell responses, including anti-tumour responses through blockade of PD-1 binding to 
PD L1 and PD L2 ligands. 
The benefits with Jemperli are its effects on objective response rate and response duration in patients 
with mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or with high microsatellite instability (MSI-H) recurrent or 
advanced endometrial cancer who have been previously treated. The most common side effects are 
anaemia, nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, pruritus, rash, myalgia, pyrexia and hypothyroidism. 
The full indication is:  
Jemperli is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with mismatch repair 
deficient (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) recurrent or advanced endometrial cancer 
(EC) that has progressed on or following prior treatment with a platinum-containing regimen. 
Jemperli must be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
