European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/366318/2007 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for 
MYCAMINE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): micafungin 
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,∗∗  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Mycamine,  50  mg  &  100  mg,  powder  for  solution  for  infusion,  intended  for  the  treatment  and 
prophylaxis of Candida infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Astellas Pharma GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Mycamine 
for  systemic  use 
(ATC Code: (J02AX05)). Micafungin sodium is a semi-synthetic novel drug substance with antifungal 
activity which selectively inhibits the synthesis of 1,3-β D-glucan. 
is  micafungin,  an  antimycotic 
The  benefits  with  Mycamine  are  its  clinical  and  microbiological  cure  and  prophylaxis  of  Candida 
infection.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  vomiting,  nausea  and  diarrhoea  and  elevated  liver 
enzymes. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mycamine, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
“Adults, adolescents ≥ 16 years of age and elderly: 
- 
- 
- 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
Treatment of oesophageal candidiasis in patients for whom intravenous therapy is appropriate. 
Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
Children (including neonates) and adolescents < 16 years of age: 
- 
- 
Treatment of invasive candidiasis. 
Prophylaxis of Candida infection in patients undergoing allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation or patients who are expected to have neutropenia (absolute neutrophil 
count < 500 cells / µl) for 10 or more days. 
The decision to use Mycamine should take into account a potential risk for the development of liver 
tumours (see SPC section 4.4). Mycamine should therefore only be used if other antifungals are not 
appropriate.” 
∗  
∗∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Treatment with Mycamine should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of fungal 
infections. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Mycamine  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
