21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/703245/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xigduo 
dapagliflozin/metformin 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xigduo, 5 mg/850 mg and 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers 
Squibb/AstraZeneca EEIG. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Xigduo is dapagliflozin/metformin, a combination of oral blood glucose 
lowering drugs (A10BD15). 
Dapagliflozin is a highly potent selective and reversible inhibitor of sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 
(SGLT2), the predominant transporter responsible for reabsorption of glucose from the glomerular 
filtrate back into the circulation, that improves fasting and post-prandial plasma glucose levels by 
reducing renal glucose reabsorption leading to urinary glucose excretion. 
Metformin is a biguanide with antihyperglycaemic effects, lowering both basal and postprandial plasma 
glucose. It does not stimulate insulin secretion and, therefore, does not produce hypoglycaemia. It is 
thought to act via various mechanisms, including decreasing hepatic glucose production, decreasing 
intestinal absorption of glucose, and improving insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose 
uptake and utilisation. 
Xigduo combines these two glucose-lowering agents with complementary and distinct mechanisms of 
action. 
The benefits with Xigduo are its ability to improve the glycaemic control through reduction of blood 
glucose levels in patients inadequately controlled by metformin alone. The most common side effects 
are hypoglycaemia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, vulvovaginitis, 
balanitis and related genital infections, urinary tract infection, dysuria and polyuria. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xigduo will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
"Xigduo is indicated in adults aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to 
diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control  
• in patients inadequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone  
• in combination with other glucose lowering medicinal products, including insulin, in patients 
inadequately controlled with metformin and these medicinal products (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for 
available data on different combinations)  
• in patients already being treated with the combination of dapagliflozin and metformin as separate 
tablets". 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xigduo and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Xigduo 
EMA/CHMP/703245/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
