17 December 2015  
EMA/765141/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Feraccru 
ferric maltol 
On 17 December 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Feraccru, 
intended for the treatment of iron deficiency anaemia in adults with inflammatory bowel disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Iron Therapeutics (UK) Ltd. 
Feraccru will be available as 30 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Feraccru is ferric maltol, an 
oral trivalent iron preparation (ATC code: B03AB) which provides iron for uptake across the intestinal wall 
and transfer to the iron transport and storage proteins in the body (transferrin and ferritin, respectively). 
The benefits with Feraccru are its ability to increase haemoglobin levels in patients. The most common 
side effects are abdominal pain (including in the upper abdomen), flatulence, constipation, abdominal 
discomfort/ distension, diarrhoea and nausea. 
The full indication is:  
"Feraccru is indicated in adults for the treatment of iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Feraccru be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of iron deficiency 
anaemia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
