22 May 2014 
EMA/CHMP/280012/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Gazyvaro 
obinutuzumab 
On 22 May 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Gazyvaro 
1,000 mg concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment in combination with 
chlorambucil of adult patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and with 
comorbidities making them unsuitable for full-dose fludarabine based therapy. Gazyvaro was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 10 October 2012. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Roche Registration Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Gazyvaro is obinutuzumab, a recombinant monoclonal antibody (L01XC15) 
targeting the CD20 transmembrane antigen on the surface of non-malignant and malignant pre-B and 
mature B-lymphocytes. In nonclinical studies, obinutuzumab induces direct cell death and mediates 
antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP). 
The benefits with Gazyvaro used in combination with chlorambucil (Clb) are its ability to delay the 
progression of disease compared to Clb alone or rituximab in combination with Clb. The most common 
side effects are infusion-related reactions (IRRs) which occurred in the majority of patients during the 
first cycle, neutropenia and infections. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Gazyvaro will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Gazyvaro and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Gazyvaro  
EMA/CHMP/280012/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
   
 
