On 20 September 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
Apealea will be available as a 60 mg powder for solution for infusion. The active substance of Apealea is 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Apealea, 
Pharmaceutical AB. 
Apealea 
paclitaxel 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
intended for the treatment of ovarian cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Oasmia 
20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/474774/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The benefit with Apealea is its ability to improve progression-free survival in combination with 
carboplatin. The most common side effects are neutropenia, gastrointestinal disorders, peripheral 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
affects non-cancer cells such as blood and nerve cells, which can cause side effects. 
neuropathy, arthralgia/myalgia, and infusion site reactions. 
granted by the European Commission. 
The full indication is: 
section 5.1)." 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
paclitaxel, an antineoplastic agent that belongs to the class known as ‘taxanes’ (ATC code: L01CD01). 
to divide. By keeping this structure intact the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. Apealea also 
It is proposed that Apealea be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
of platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer and fallopian tube cancer (see 
"Apealea in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with first relapse 
Paclitaxel blocks a stage of cell division in which the cell’s internal ‘skeleton’ is dismantled to allow the cell 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
