EMA/CHMP/537072/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xofluza 
baloxavir marboxil 
On 12 November 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xofluza, 
intended for the treatment and post-exposure prophylaxis of uncomplicated influenza. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Xofluza will be available as 20-mg and 40-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Xofluza is 
baloxavir marboxil, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AX), which is converted in the body into 
baloxavir. Baloxavir prevents influenza virus replication by inhibiting cap-dependent endonuclease (CEN), 
a virus-specific enzyme in the viral RNA polymerase complex. 
The benefits of Xofluza are its ability to reduce the duration of influenza-related symptoms in healthy 
individuals and individuals at high risk of influenza-related complications. Following post-exposure 
prophylaxis with Xofluza, significantly fewer subjects developed symptomatic influenza. No major 
common side effects were detected in the clinical trials. Hypersensitivity reactions have been observed in 
the post-marketing setting, including reports of anaphylaxis and less severe hypersensitivity reactions 
such as urticaria and angioedema.  
The full indication is: 
Treatment of influenza 
Xofluza is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated influenza in patients aged 12 years and 
above. 
Post-exposure prophylaxis of influenza 
Xofluza is indicated for post-exposure prophylaxis of influenza in individuals aged 12 years and 
above. 
Xofluza should be used in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Xofluza  
EMA/CHMP/537072/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
