25 March 2021 
EMA/CHMP/156178/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lydisilka 
estetrol / drospirenone 
On 25 March 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lydisilka, 
intended for oral contraception. The applicant for this medicinal product is Estetra SPRL. 
Lydisilka will be available as 14.2 mg / 3 mg film-coated tablets. The active substances of Lydisilka are 
estetrol (an oestrogen) drospirenone (a progestogen) (ATC code: G03AA18). Estetrol is a new chemically 
synthesised oestrogen, which in humans is produced only by the liver of the human foetus during 
pregnancy and reaches the maternal circulation through the placenta. Estetrol suppresses follicle 
stimulating hormone activity and stabilises the bleeding pattern. Drospirenone is a previously known 
progestogen, which suppresses luteinizing hormone activity. These actions result in a contraceptive effect 
which is based on the interaction of various factors, the most important of which is inhibition of ovulation. 
The benefit of Lydisilka is its ability to provide oral contraception. The most common side effects are 
metrorrhagia, headache, acne, vaginal haemorrhage and dysmenorrhoea. 
The full indication is:  
Oral contraception. The decision to prescribe Lydisilka should take into consideration the 
individual woman’s current risk factors, particularly those for venous thromboembolism (VTE), 
and how the risk of VTE with Lydisilka compares with other combined hormonal contraceptives 
(CHCs). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
