26 April 2023 
EMA/CHMP/794403/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Opfolda 
miglustat 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opfolda, 
intended for the treatment of glycogen storage disease type II (Pompe disease) in combination with 
cipaglucosidase alfa. The applicant for this medicinal product is Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited. 
Opfolda will be available as a 65 mg hard capsule. The active substance of Opfolda is miglustat (ATC 
code: A16AX06), a pharmacokinetic enzyme stabiliser that binds selectively with cipaglucosidase alfa in 
the blood during infusion and minimises the loss of enzyme activity while in circulation. 
The benefit of Opfolda is its ability to stabilise cipaglucosidase alfa, a recombinant human acid 
α-glucosidase, when co-administered in patients with late-onset Pompe disease. The most common side 
effect is constipation. 
Opfolda is a hybrid medicine2 of Zavesca which has been authorised in the EU since 2002. Opfolda 
contains the same active substance as Zavesca but in a lower strength. It is also authorised for a 
different indication and can only be used in combination with cipaglucosidase alfa. 
The full indication is: 
Opfolda (miglustat) is an enzyme stabiliser of cipaglucosidase alfa long-term enzyme 
replacement therapy in adults with late-onset Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase [GAA] 
deficiency). 
Treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of patients with Pompe 
disease or other inherited metabolic or neuromuscular diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Opfolda  
EMA/CHMP/794403/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
