16 February 2012
EMA/CHMP/113061/2012
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation)
Byetta
exenatide
On 16 February 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Byetta. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.
They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows:
"BYETTA is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without metformin and/or 
pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these agents".
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.
For information, the full indications for Byetta will be as follows2:
BYETTA is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with:
- metformin
- sulphonylureas
- thiazolidinediones
- metformin and a sulphonylurea
- metformin and a thiazolidinedione
in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these
oral therapies.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion.
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax>
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
                                              
BYETTA is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to basal insulin with or without metformin 
and/or pioglitazone in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control with these 
agents.
Byetta
EMA/CHMP/113061/2012
Page 2/2
