17 March 2011 
EMA/CHMP/207927/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revatio 
sildenafil 
On 17 March 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Revatio. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Ltd. They may 
request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication in the paediatric population as follows: 
Paediatric Population 
Treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year to 17 years old with pulmonary arterial hypertension.  
Efficacy in terms of improvement of exercise capacity or pulmonary haemodynamics has been shown 
in primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary hypertension associated with congenital heart 
disease (See section 5.1). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Revatio will be as follows2: 
Treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension classified as WHO functional class II 
and III, to improve exercise capacity. Efficacy has been shown in primary pulmonary hypertension and 
pulmonary hypertension associated with connective tissue disease. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
Paediatric Population 
Treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year to 17 years old with pulmonary arterial 
hypertension.  Efficacy in terms of improvement of exercise capacity or pulmonary 
haemodynamics has been shown in primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary 
hypertension associated with congenital heart disease (See section 5.1). 
Revatio  
EMA/CHMP/207927/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
