28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/279960/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rozlytrek 
entrectinib 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rozlytrek, 
intended for the treatment of patients whose solid tumours have a neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase 
(NTRK) gene fusion, or patients with ROS1-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Rozlytrek will be available as hard capsules (100 and 200 mg). The active substance of Rozlytrek is 
entrectinib, a tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) inhibitor (ATC code L01XE56). It targets cells with 
constitutive activation of TRK proteins resulting from gene fusions and the proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein 
kinase ROS (ROS1). 
The benefits with Rozlytrek are considered to be its objective response rate and response duration both in 
patients with locally advanced, metastatic solid tumours that display a NTRK gene fusion who have no 
satisfactory treatment options, and in patients with ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC. The most common side 
effects are fatigue, constipation, dysgeusia, oedema, dizziness, diarrhoea, nausea, dysaesthesia, dyspnoea, 
anaemia, increased weight, increased blood creatinine, pain, cognitive disorders, vomiting, cough, and 
pyrexia. 
The full indication is: 
Rozlytrek as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients 12 years of 
age and older, with solid tumours expressing a neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene 
fusion,  
-  who have a disease that is locally advanced, metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to 
result in severe morbidity, and 
- who have not received a prior NTRK inhibitor 
- 
-  who have no satisfactory treatment options (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is expected to provide more comprehensive data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Rozlytrek as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with ROS1-positive, 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) not previously treated with ROS1 inhibitors.  
It is proposed that Rozlytrek be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Rozlytrek  
EMA/CHMP/279960/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
