13 December 2012 
EMA/804086/2012  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Pradaxa 
dabigatran etexilate  
On  13  December  2012,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Pradaxa. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
" Prosthetic heart valves requiring anticoagulant treatment (see section 5.1)". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full contraindication for Pradaxa will be as follows2: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
"Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Patients with severe renal impairment (CrCL < 30 mL/min) (see section 4.2) 
Active clinically significant bleeding 
Lesion or condition at significant risk of major bleeding such as current or recent    
gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial 
haemorrhage, known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular 
aneurysms or major intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
• 
• 
• 
• 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low   
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin etc), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux etc), 
oral anticoagulants (warfarin, rivaroxaban, apixaban etc) except under the circumstances of 
switching therapy to or from Pradaxa (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary 
to maintain an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5) 
Hepatic impairment or liver disease expected to have any impact on survival 
Concomitant treatment with systemic ketoconazole, cyclosporine, itraconazole, tacrolimus and 
dronedarone (see section 4.5) 
Prosthetic heart valves requiring anticoagulant treatment (see section 5.1).". 
Pradaxa 
EMA/804086/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
