21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/546201/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vyndaqel 
tafamidis 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vyndaqel, 
20mg, capsule intended for the treatment of transthyretin amyloidosis in adult patients with stage 1 
symptomatic polyneuropathy to delay neurologic impairment. Vyndaqel was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 28 August 2006. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Specialty UK 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Vyndaqel is tafamidis, a novel specific stabilizer of transthyretin, ATC code: 
N07XX08. 
The benefits with Vyndaqel are its ability to stabilise transthyretin and thereby inhibit amyloid 
formation and progression of the transthyretin amyloidosis. Following 18 months of treatment in a 
pivotal clinical study, more patients treated with Vyndaqel met the definition of response with respect 
to the Neuropathy Impairment Score of the Lower Limb than patients on placebo. Less deterioration of 
neurologic function as measured by other endpoints and improved nutritional status were also 
observed in patients treated with Vyndaqel. 
The most common side effects are urinary tract infection, diarrhoea, vaginal infection and upper 
abdominal pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vyndaqel will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Vyndaqel is indicated for the treatment of transthyretin amyloidosis in 
adult patients with stage 1 symptomatic polyneuropathy to delay peripheral neurologic impairment.” 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician knowledgeable in the 
management of patients with transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Vyndaqel and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2.  
2 In exceptional circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
Vyndaqel  
EMA/CHMP/546201/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
