25 April 2013 
EMA/CHMP/263262/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Erivedge 
vismodegib 
On 25 April 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Erivedge 150 mg, hard capsule, intended for the treatment of adult patients with symptomatic 
metastatic basal cell carcinoma or locally advanced basal cell carcinoma inappropriate for surgery or 
radiotherapy.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Erivedge is vismodegib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC Code: L01XX43), an 
orally available small-molecule which acts by blocking specific genes involved in proliferation, survival, 
and differentiation of cells.  
The benefits with Erivedge are its ability to reduce lesion size or sum of the longest diameter of lesions 
more than 30 % or to provide complete resolution of ulceration in all target lesions in 48% of the 
patients with locally advanced BCC and in 33% of the patients with metastatic BCC. The most common 
side effects are muscle spasms, alopecia, dysgeusia, weight decreased, fatigue and nausea. There is a 
high risk that Erivedge can cause embryo-foetal death or severe birth defects.   
A pregnancy prevention plan and a pharmacovigilance plan for Erivedge will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “treatment of adult patients with symptomatic metastatic basal cell 
carcinoma, or locally advanced basal cell carcinoma inappropriate for surgery or radiotherapy ". It is 
proposed that Erivedge be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of advanced basal 
cell carcinoma.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Erivedge and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Erivedge 
EMA/CHMP/263262/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
