20 February 2014 
EMA/92845/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vimizim 
Elosulfase alfa 
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vimizim, 1 
mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion intended for treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis, type IVA 
(Morquio A Syndrome, MPS IVA). Vimizim was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 24 July 
2009.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  BioMarin  Europe  Ltd.  They  may  request  a  re-
examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Vimizim  is  elosulfase  alfa,  a  recombinant  human  N-acetylgalactosamine-6-
sulfatase, Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, enzymes; ATC code: A16AB12. Elosulfase 
alfa is intended to supplement the deficit enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase. After intravenous 
administration the enzyme will be taken up into the lysosomes and will increase the catabolism of the 
glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).  
The  benefits  with  Vimizim  are  its  ability  to  improve  patient’s  6  minute  walking  test,  and  to  improve 
other  symptoms  of  Morquio  disease,  such  as  respiratory  or  anthropometric  functions.  The  most 
common side effects are infusion reactions, including anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity and vomiting.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vimizim will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Vimizim is indicated for the treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis, type IVA 
(Morquio A Syndrome, MPS IVA) in patients of all ages". It is proposed that Vimizim treatment should 
be  supervised  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  management  of  patients  with  MPS  IVA  or  other 
inherited  metabolic  diseases.  Administration  of  Vimizim  should  be  carried  out  by  an  appropriately 
trained healthcare professional with the ability to manage medical emergencies.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Vimizm and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Vimizim 
EMA/92845/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
