23 February 2023 
EMA/CHMP/64870/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vafseo 
vadadustat 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vafseo, 
intended for the treatment of symptomatic anaemia in adults with chronic kidney disease who are  on 
chronic dialysis.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Akebia Europe Limited. 
Vafseo will be available as 150 mg, 300 mg and 450 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Vafseo is vadadustat, an orally administered antianaemic preparation (ATC code: B03XA08). Vadadustat 
inhibits hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) prolyl hydroxylase, thereby stimulating endogenous erythropoietin 
production, increasing iron mobilisation and haemoglobin and red blood cell production 
The benefit of Vafseo is its ability to correct haemoglobin levels in dialysis-dependent patients, with 
effects comparable to those seen with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents. The most common side effects 
are hypertension, diarrhoea, and thromboembolic events. 
The full indication is: 
Vafseo is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic kidney 
disease (CKD) in adults on chronic maintenance dialysis. 
Vafseo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of anaemia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
