21 March 2013 
EMA/151315/2013 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Voriconazole Accord 
VORICONAZOLE 
On  21  March  2013  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Voriconazole  Accord,  50  mg  and  200  mg  film-coated  tablets  intended  for  the  treatment  of  invasive 
aspergillosis,  treatment  of  candidemia  in  non-neutropenic  patients,  treatment  of  fluconazole-resistant 
serious  invasive  Candida  infections  (including  C.  krusei)  and  treatment  of  serious  fungal  infections 
caused  by  Scedosporium  spp.  and  Fusarium  spp.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Accord 
Healthcare Limited.  
The active substance of Voriconazole Accord is voriconazole, an antimycotic for systemic use J02A C03. 
Voriconazole,  is  a  broad  spectrum,  triazole  antifungal  agent.  The  primary  mode  of  action  of 
voriconazole is the inhibition of fungal cytochrome P-450-mediated 14 alpha-lanosterol demethylation, 
an  essential  step  in  fungal  ergosterol  biosynthesis.  The  accumulation  of  14  alpha-methyl  sterols 
correlates with the subsequent loss of ergosterol in the fungal cell membrane and may be responsible 
for the antifungal activity of voriconazole. 
Voriconazole Accord is a generic of VFEND, which has been authorised in the EU since 19 March 2002. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Voriconazole Accord, and its bioequivalence with 
the  reference  product  VFEND.  A  question  and  answer  document  on  generic  medicines  can  be  found 
here.  
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  Voriconazole  Accord  will  be  implemented  as  part  of  the  marketing 
authorisation.  
The  approved  indication  is:  “Treatment  of  invasive  aspergillosis,  treatment  of  candidemia  in  non-
neutropenic  patients,  treatment  of  fluconazole-resistant  serious  invasive  Candida  infections  (including 
C. krusei), and treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium spp. and Fusarium spp”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Voriconazole  Accord  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Voriconazole Accord  
EMA/151315/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
