24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/388260/2014 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi 
busulfan 
On 24 July 2014 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Busulfan 
Fresenius Kabi intended for conditioning treatment prior to conventional haematopoietic progenitor cell 
transplantation. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Fresenius Kabi Oncology PLC.  They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is busulfan an alkyl sulfonate (L01AB0) and a potent 
cytotoxic agent and a bifunctional alkylating agent. In aqueous media, release of the 
methanesulphonate groups produces carbonium ions which can alkylate DNA, thought to be an 
important biological mechanism for its cytotoxic effect. 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi is a generic of Busilvex, which has been authorised in the EU since 09 July 
2003. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Busulfan Fresenius Kabi. Busulfan 
Fresenius Kabi is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable; therefore, a bioequivalence 
study versus the reference product Bulsivex was not required. A question and answer document on 
generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Busulfan Fresenius Kabi will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Busulfan followed by cyclophosphamide (BuCy2) is indicated as conditioning treatment prior to 
conventional haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation (HPCT) in adult patients when the 
combination is considered the best available option. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Busulfan followed by cyclophosphamide (BuCy4) or melphalan (BuMel) is indicated as conditioning 
treatment prior to conventional haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation in paediatric patients. 
Busulfan administration should be supervised by a physician experienced in conditioning treatment 
prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Busulfan Fresenius Kabi and therefore recommends the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
Busulfan Fresenius Kabi  
EMA/CHMP/314586/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
