20 May 2010 
EMA/314805/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Taxotere 
docetaxel 
On 20 May 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Taxotere. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Aventis Pharma 
S.A.. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
• 
operable node-negative breast cancer  
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer (see section 5.1)." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Taxotere will be as follows2: 
Breast cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
• 
operable node-positive breast cancer 
•  operable node-negative breast cancer  
For patients with operable nodenegative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be 
restricted to patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally 
established criteria for primary therapy of early breast cancer (see section 5.1). 
TAXOTERE in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
TAXOTERE monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have included an 
anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
TAXOTERE in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic 
breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received chemotherapy 
for metastatic disease. 
TAXOTERE in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
TAXOTERE is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with unresectable, 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not previously received 
chemotherapy for this condition. 
Prostate cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction, 
who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
TAXOTERE in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction treatment of 
patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Taxotere  
EMA/314805/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
