20 July 2017 
EMA/CHMP/428392/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Keytruda 
pembrolizumab 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Keytruda. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who have received prior platinum-containing chemotherapy. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy." 
For information, the full indications for Keytruda will be as follows:2 
"Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung 
carcinoma (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% tumour proportion 
score (TPS) with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC 
in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 1% TPS and who have received at least one 
prior chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations should also 
have received targeted therapy before receiving Keytruda. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) who have failed autologous stem cell transplant 
(ASCT) and brentuximab vedotin (BV), or who are transplant-ineligible and have failed BV. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults who have received prior platinum-containing 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
chemotherapy. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing 
chemotherapy." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/428392/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
