18 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/837842/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bronchitol 
Mannitol 
On 18 October 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bronchitol 
40 mg inhalation powder, hard capsules intended for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in adults 
aged 18 years and above as an add-on therapy to best standard of care. Bronchitol was designated as 
an orphan medicinal product on 7 November 2005. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Pharmaxis Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  
The active substance of Bronchitol is mannitol, an hyperosmolar agent (R05CB16) which is understood 
to change  the viscoelastic properties of mucus, increase the hydration of the periciliary fluid layer and 
contribute to increased mucociliary clearance of the retained secretions. 
The benefits with Bronchitol are its ability to improve lung function. Although the size of the effect is 
small with around 2-3% absolute change in FEV1 predicted and the clinical benefit is difficult to 
ascertain, it is acknowledged that even a small effect can be of relevance given the deterioration of 
FEV1 inherent to the disease progression. The most commonly observed side effect is cough. The most 
important adverse reactions are bronchospasm and haemoptysis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Bronchitol will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Bronchitol is indicated for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in adults 
aged 18 years and above as an add-on therapy to best standard of care." It is proposed that the 
patient’s initiation dose must be used under the supervision and monitoring of an experienced 
physician or another health care professional appropriately trained and equipped to perform 
spirometry, monitor oxygen saturation (SpO2), and manage acute bronchospasm including appropriate 
use of resuscitation equipment. Based on the available data, the safety and efficacy of Bronchitol in 
children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years has not been established. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Bronchitol and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Bronchitol 
EMA/CHMP/837842/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
