22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/218686/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Celsunax 
ioflupane (123I) 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Celsunax, 
intended for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Pinax Pharma GmbH. 
Celsunax will be available as a solution for injection (74 MBq/ml). The active substance of Celsunax is 
ioflupane (123I), a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical product (ATC code: V09AB03). Ioflupane binds with to 
the presynaptic dopamine transporter, so radiolabelled ioflupane can be used as a surrogate marker to 
examine the integrity of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. 
Celsunax is a generic of DaTSCAN, which has been authorised in the EU since 27 July2000. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Celsunax. Since Celsunax is administered intravenously and is 
100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product DaTSCAN was not required. A 
question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Celsunax is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the 
striatum: 
- 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for example those with 
early symptoms, in order to help differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonian syndromes 
related to idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear 
palsy. Celsunax is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy 
and progressive supranuclear palsy. 
- 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from 
Alzheimer’s disease. Celsunax is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parkinson’s disease dementia. 
Celsunax should only be used in adult patients referred by physicians experienced in the management of 
movement disorders and/or dementia. Celsunax should only be used by qualified personnel with the 
appropriate government authorisation for the use and manipulation of radionuclides within a designated 
clinical setting. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Celsunax  
EMA/CHMP/218686/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
