16 December 2021  
EMA/CHMP/726160/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Okedi 
risperidone 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Okedi, 
intended for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults for whom tolerability and effectiveness has been 
established with oral risperidone.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi, S.A. 
Okedi will be available as 75 mg and 100 mg powder and solvent for prolonged-release suspension for 
injection. The active substance of Okedi is risperidone, a psycholeptic antipsychotic (N05 AX13). The 
effect of risperidone is mediated through a combined antagonist activity at the D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, 
which helps to regulate neurotransmitter activity in patients with schizophrenia. 
Okedi is a hybrid medicine of Risperdal, which has been authorised in the EU since December 1993. Okedi 
contains the same active substance as Risperdal, but is a new injectable long-acting formulation 
containing risperidone in in situ microparticles (ISM).  Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality 
of Okedi, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Risperdal. 
The benefits of Okedi are its ability to reduce symptoms using a standard scale for schizophrenia and 
prevent the occurrence of new symptoms of schizophrenia with long-term use. It is also expected to 
improve patient adherence to treatment. The most frequently reported adverse events for Okedi are 
central nervous system disorders, psychiatric disorders, and gastrointestinal disorders. Other frequently 
reported adverse drug reactions of risperidone prolonged-release suspensions for intramuscular injection 
are insomnia, anxiety, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, parkinsonism, depression, and 
akathisia.  
The full indication is: 
Treatment of schizophrenia in adults for whom tolerability and effectiveness has been 
established with oral risperidone. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Okedi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of schizophrenia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Okedi  
EMA/CHMP/726160/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
