19 July 2012 
EMA/CHMP/271228/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Ozurdex 
dexamethasone 
On 19 July 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Ozurdex. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Allergan 
Pharmaceuticals Ireland. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted two new contraindications as follows: 
  Aphakic eyes with rupture of the posterior lens capsule; 
  Eyes with Anterior Chamber Intraocular Lens (ACIOL) and rupture of the posterior lens capsule. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full contraindication(s) for Ozurdex will be as follows2: 
  Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients as listed in section 6.1.  
  Active or suspected ocular or periocular infection including most viral diseases of the cornea and 
conjunctiva, including active epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, 
varicella, mycobacterial infections, and fungal diseases. 
  Advanced glaucoma which cannot be adequately controlled by medicinal products alone. 
  Aphakic eyes with rupture of the posterior lens capsule. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
  Eyes with Anterior Chamber Intraocular Lens (ACIOL) and rupture of the posterior lens 
capsule. 
Ozurdex 
EMA/CHMP/271228/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
