23 July 2020  
EMA/CHMP/358726/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
HyQvia 
human normal immunoglobulin 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product HyQvia. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Baxalta Innovations GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication as follows:2  
Replacement therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
• 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes with impaired antibody production (see section 4.4). 
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL), in whom prophylactic antibiotics have failed or are contra-indicated.  
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in multiple myeloma (MM) patients. 
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia in patients pre- and post-allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT). 
•  Secondary immunodeficiencies (SID) in patients who suffer from severe or recurrent 
infections, ineffective antimicrobial treatment and either proven specific antibody 
failure (PSAF)* or serum IgG level of <4 g/l. 
*PSAF = failure to mount at least a 2-fold rise in IgG antibody titre to pneumococcal 
polysaccharide and polypeptide antigen vaccines 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
