14 September 2023 
EMA/CHMP/209632/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Aqumeldi 
enalapril maleate 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation (PUMA) for the medicinal 
product Aqumeldi, intended for the treatment of heart failure in children from birth to less than 18 years.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Proveca Pharma Limited. 
Aqumeldi will be available as a 0.25 mg orodispersible tablet. The active substance of Aqumeldi is 
enalapril maleate, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ATC code: C09AA02). It acts on the 
renin-angiotensin system, blocking the formation of angiotensin II. This lowers blood pressure and 
increases the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart.  
The benefits of Aqumeldi in children under 18 years of age are likely to be similar to those seen in adults 
with chronic heart failure, based on the pharmacokinetic response to the medicine. The most common 
side effects are cough, vomiting, microalbuminuria, hyperkalaemia, hypotension and postural dizziness.  
Aqumeldi is a hybrid medicine2 of Renitec which has been authorised in the EU since 06 September 1985. 
Aqumeldi contains the same active substance as Renitec, but is available at lower dosage strength and in 
a formulation more appropriate for children. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Aqumeldi.   
The full indication is: 
AQUMELDI is indicated for the treatment of heart failure in children from birth to less than 18 
years. 
Aqumeldi should be initiated by physicians experienced in the treatment of paediatric patients with heart 
failure. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Aqumeldi  
EMA/CHMP/209632/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
