17 January 2013 
EMA/CHMP/35984/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Onglyza 
saxagliptin 
On 17 January 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Onglyza. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers 
Squibb/AstraZeneca EEIG. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Onglyza is indicated as triple oral therapy in combination with metformin plus a sulphonylurea when 
this regimen alone, with diet and exercise, does not provide adequate glycaemic control" 
For information, the full indications for Onglyza will be as follows2: 
Onglyza is indicated in adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve 
glycaemic control: 
as dual oral therapy in combination with 
•  metformin, when metformin alone, with diet and exercise, does not provide adequate glycaemic 
control.  
• 
• 
a sulphonylurea, when the sulphonylurea alone, with diet and exercise, does not provide adequate 
glycaemic control. in patients for whom use of metformin is considered inappropriate. 
a thiazolidinedione, when the thiazolidinedione alone with diet and exercise, does not provide 
adequate glycaemic control in patients for whom use of a thiazolidinedione is considered 
appropriate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
as triple oral therapy in combination with 
•  metformin plus a sulphonylurea when this regimen alone, with diet and exercise, does 
not provide adequate glycaemic control  
as combination therapy with insulin (with or without metformin), when this regimen alone, with diet 
and exercise, does not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Onglyza 
EMA/CHMP/35984/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
