15 December 2011 
EMA/CHMP/926998/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zelboraf 
vemurafenib  
On 15 December 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Zelboraf, 240mg, Film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of adult patients with BRAF V600 
mutation-positive unresectable or metastatic melanoma (see section 5.1). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Roche Registration Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zelboraf is vemurafenib, a protein kinase inhibitors (LO1XE15) that inhibits the 
BRAF serine-threonine kinase which has a mutation at position 600 (BRAF V600E). This mutation 
results in constitutively activated BRAF proteins, which can cause cell proliferation in the absence of 
growth factors that would normally be required for proliferation. 
The benefits with Zelboraf are its ability to improve overall survival in melanoma patients that have 
tumours that are positive for BRAFV600E. The most common side effects are rash, arthralgia, fatigue, 
photosensitivity reaction, nausea, alopecia and pruritis.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zelboraf will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Vemurafenib is indicated in monotherapy for the treatment of adult 
patients with BRAF V600 mutation-positive unresectable or metastatic melanoma (see section 5.1)." It 
is proposed that Zelboraf be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zelboraf and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
