26 March 2020 
EMA/CHMP/105780/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sarclisa 
isatuximab 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sarclisa2, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The applicant for this medicinal product is sanofi-aventis 
groupe. 
Sarclisa will be available as 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Sarclisa is isatuximab, an IgG1-derived monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC38) that binds to a specific 
extracellular epitope of CD38 receptor resulting in cancer cell death. CD38 is a transmembrane 
glycoprotein that is highly expressed on multiple myeloma cells. 
The benefits with Sarclisa are its ability to improve progression free survival (PFS) represented by a 
40.4% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death. The most common side effects are 
neutropenia), infusion reactions, pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhoea and bronchitis. 
The full indication is:  
“Sarclisa is indicated, in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult 
patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM) who have received at least two prior 
therapies including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor (PI) and have demonstrated disease 
progression on the last therapy.”  
Sarclisa should be administered by a healthcare professional, in an environment where resuscitation 
facilities are available. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
