21 May 2015  
EMA/CHMP/277547/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Evotaz 
atazanavir / cobicistat 
On 21 May 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Evotaz 
(300 mg/150 mg) film coated tablets, intended for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults without known 
mutations associated with resistance to atazanavir. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-
Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
Evotaz is a fixed dose combination of the antiretroviral medicinal product atazanavir and the 
pharmacokinetic enhancer cobicistat. The active substance of Evotaz is atazanavir, an HIV-1 protease 
inhibitor [Antivirals for systemic use, antivirals for treatment of HIV infection, combinations (ATC code: 
J05AR15)]. 
The benefits with Evotaz are its ability to provide sustainable virological suppression if given as part of 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for treatment of HIV-1 infection. The most 
frequently reported adverse reactions were ocular icterus, nausea and jaundice.  
The full indication is: "Evotaz is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for 
the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults without known mutations associated with resistance to atazanavir 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.1)”. It is proposed that Evotaz be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
