18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/757915/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xydalba 
dalbavancin  
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xydalba, 500mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for treatment of acute 
bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product 
is Durata Therapeutics International B.V. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xydalba is dalbavancin, a glycopeptide antibacterial (J01XA04), which 
interrupts cell wall synthesis in susceptible Gram-positive bacteria. 
The benefits with Xydalba are its ability to be active against important groups of Gram-positive 
bacteria, including strains of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and some S. aureus 
with reduced susceptibility to glycopeptides (GISA), as well as pathogenic streptococci.  In addition, it 
possesses a pharmacokinetic (PK) profile which allows once-weekly intravenous (IV) dosing. The most 
common side effects are nausea, diarrhoea and headache.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xydalba will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
"Xydalba is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in 
adults. 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xydalba and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Xydalba 
EMA/CHMP/757915/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
