25 June 2015  
EMA/CHMP/368035/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Raxone 
idebenone 
On 25 June 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Raxone, intended for the treatment of visual impairment in patients with Leber’s 
Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON). Raxone was designated an orphan medicinal product on 
15 February 2007. The applicant for this medicinal product is Santhera Pharmaceuticals (Deutschland) 
GmbH. 
Raxone will be available as 150 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Raxone is idebenone, an 
anti-oxidant thought to help restore mitochondrial function and prevent oxidative damage in retinal 
ganglion cells in LHON patients. As a result, the medicine prevents and/or reverses loss of vision in these 
patients. 
The benefits with Raxone are its ability to improve vision in LHON patients. The most common side effects 
are nasopharyngitis, cough, diarrhoea and back pain. 
Raxone is a hybrid of Mnesis (45mg tablets), a medicine containing the same active substance that has 
been authorised in Italy since 1993 but for a different indication (treatment of cognitive and behavioural 
deficits due to cerebral pathologies of vascular or degenerative origin). 
The full indication is: "treatment of visual impairment in adolescent and adult patients with Leber’s 
Hereditary Optic Neuropathy".  
It is proposed that treatment with Raxone be initiated and supervised by a physician with experience in 
LHON. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Raxone  
EMA/CHMP/368035/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
