24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/321116/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Byooviz 
ranibizumab 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Byooviz, 
intended for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration, visual impairment due 
to diabetic macular oedema, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, visual impairment due to macular oedema 
secondary to retinal vein occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO), and visual impairment due to choroidal 
neovascularisation. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Byooviz will be available as a 10 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Byooviz is 
ranibizumab, a monoclonal antibody fragment (ATC code: S01LA04) which modulates angiogenesis by 
inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor A. 
Byooviz is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Lucentis, which was 
authorised in the EU on 22/01/2007. Data show that Byooviz has comparable quality, safety and efficacy 
to Lucentis. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Byooviz is indicated in adults for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein 
occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Byooviz must be administered by a qualified ophthalmologist experienced in intravitreal injections.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Byooviz  
EMA/CHMP/321116/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
