28 January 2021 
EMA/CHMP/12859/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ontozry 
cenobamate 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ontozry, 
intended for adults with epilepsy whose disease is not adequately controlled despite a history of 
treatment with at least 2 anti-epileptic medicinal products. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Arvelle Therapeutics Netherlands B.V. 
Ontozry will be available as 12.5 mg tablet + 25 mg film-coated tablet (initiation pack), 50 mg, 100 mg, 
150 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Ontozry is cenobamate, an antiepileptic 
(ATC code: N03AX). Cenobamate has a dual mechanism of action, with positive allosteric modulation of 
the GABAA receptors and enhancement of sodium channel inactivation with inhibition of the persistent 
component of the sodium current. 
The benefits with Ontozry are its ability to reduce the frequency of seizures at doses of 100 mg to 
400 mg/day. The most common side effects are somnolence, dizziness, fatigue and headache.  
The full indication is:  
Ontozry is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of focal-onset seizures with or without 
secondary generalisation in adult patients with epilepsy who have not been adequately controlled 
despite a history of treatment with at least 2 anti-epileptic medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
