22 March 2018 
EMA/CHMP/799799/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Repatha 
evolocumab 
On 22 March 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Repatha. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
Repatha is indicated in adults with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (myocardial 
infarction, stroke or peripheral arterial disease) to reduce cardiovascular risk by lowering LDL-C 
levels, as an adjunct to correction of other risk factors:  
• 
• 
in combination with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin with or without other lipid-
lowering therapies or, 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-
intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
For study results with respect to effects on LDL-C, cardiovascular events and populations studied 
see section 5.1.” 
For information, the full indications for Repatha will be as follows2: 
“Hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach 
LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
• 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-
intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies.  
The effect of Repatha on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined. 
Established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
Repatha is indicated in adults with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease 
(myocardial infarction, stroke or peripheral arterial disease) to reduce cardiovascular 
risk by lowering LDL-C levels, as an adjunct to correction of other risk factors:  
• 
in combination with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin with or without other 
lipid-lowering therapies or, 
•  alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are 
statin-intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
For study results with respect to effects on LDL-C, cardiovascular events and 
populations studied see section 5.1.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Repatha  
EMA/CHMP/799799/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
  
