20 January 2011 
EMA/CHMP/733047/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
INOmax 
nitric oxide 
On 20 January 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product INOmax. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is INO Therapeutics 
AB. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows2: 
“INOmax, in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate active substances, is indicated: 
• 
for the treatment of newborn infants ≥ 34 weeks gestation with hypoxic respiratory failure 
associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension, in order to 
improve oxygenation and to reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
•  as part of the treatment of peri- and post-operative pulmonary hypertension in adults 
and newborn infants, infants and toddlers, children and adolescents, ages 0-17 years in 
conjunction to heart surgery, in order to selectively decrease pulmonary arterial 
pressure and improve right ventricular function and oxygenation”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
