1 April 2016  
EMA/CHMP/793732/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Flixabi 
Infliximab 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Flixabi, intended for 
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, adult Crohn’s disease, paediatric Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, 
paediatric ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Samsung Bioepis UK Limited (SBUK). 
Flixabi will be available as a 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Flixabi is infliximab, an immunosupressant (ATC code: L04AB02). Infliximab is a chimeric 
human-murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both soluble and transmembrane 
forms of tumour necrosis factor α (TNFα) but not to lymphotoxin α (TNFβ). 
Flixabi is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Remicade (infliximab) authorised 
in the EU since 13 August 1999. Studies have shown Flixabi to have comparable quality, safety and 
efficacy to Remicade (infliximab). 
The full indications are: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Flixabi, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as well as 
the improvement in physical function in: 
• 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with methotrexate or 
other DMARDs. 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by 
X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for: 
• 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant; or 
who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded despite a 
full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including antibiotics, drainage and 
immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 
17 years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, an 
immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for 
such therapies. Infliximab has been studied only in combination with conventional immunosuppressive 
therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine 
(6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 
17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Flixabi should be administered: 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce 
the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular 
symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Flixabi is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to 
respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
cyclosporine, methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A (PUVA) (see section 5.1).” 
Flixabi  
EMA/CHMP/793732/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
  
  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Flixabi  
EMA/CHMP/793732/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
  
  
