23 February 2023 
EMA/CHMP/27927/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Opzelura 
ruxolitinib 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opzelura, 
intended for the treatment of non-segmental vitiligo. The applicant for this medicinal product is Incyte 
Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Opzelura will be available as a 15 mg/g cream. The active substance of Opzelura is ruxolitinib, a Janus 
Kinase (JAK) inhibitor with selectivity for the JAK1 and JAK2 isoforms (ATC code: D11AH09). JAKs are 
intracellular enzymes which transmit signals arising from cytokine or growth factor receptor interactions 
on the cellular membrane, influencing cellular processes of haematopoiesis and immune-cell function. 
The benefits of Opzelura are its ability to improve the skin condition in non-segmental vitiligo as 
measured by improvement in the facial and total body depigmentation from baseline on the Vitiligo Area 
Scoring Index (F-VASI75 and T-VASI50) compared to vehicle group, as demonstrated in two pivotal 
phase 3 randomised, double-blind, vehicle-controlled studies. The most common side effect is application 
site acne. 
The full indication is: 
Opzelura is indicated for the treatment of non-segmental vitiligo with facial involvement in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. 
Opzelura should be initiated and supervised by physicians with experience in the diagnosis and treatment 
of non-segmental vitiligo. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
