14 April 2011 
EMA/CHMP/306613/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Carbaglu 
(carglumic acid) 
On 14 April 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Carbaglu. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Orphan Europe 
S.A.R.L. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted new indications as follows: 
“Carbaglu is indicated in treatment of  
-  hyperammonaemia due to isovaleric acidaemia; 
-  hyperammonaemia due to methymalonic acidaemia; 
-  hyperammonaemia due to propionic acidaemia”. 
The CHMP adopted an amendment to an existing indication as follows2: 
“Carbaglu is indicated in treatment of  
- 
hyperammonaemia due to N-acetylglutamate synthase primary deficiency” 
For information, the full indications for Carbaglu will be as follows2: 
“Carbaglu is indicated in treatment of  
- 
hyperammonaemia due to N-acetylglutamate synthase primary deficiency; 
-  hyperammonaemia due to isovaleric acidaemia; 
-  hyperammonaemia due to methymalonic acidaemia; 
-  hyperammonaemia due to propionic acidaemia”. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Carbaglu  
EMA/CHMP/306613/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
