18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/737422/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Holoclar 
Ex vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells containing stem 
cells  
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Holoclar, a living tissue equivalent intended for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe 
limbal stem-cell deficiency due to ocular burns.  
Holoclar was designated an orphan medicinal product on 7 November 2008. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
The active substance of Holoclar is ‘ex vivo expanded autologous human corneal epithelial cells 
containing stem cells’, an ophthalmological product (ATC Code: S01XA19) that acts by replacing 
damaged corneal cells, including limbal stem cells responsible for continuous regeneration and 
maintenance of the corneal epithelium. By re-establishing a reservoir of stem cells in the eye, Holoclar 
initiates normal corneal cell growth and maintenance. 
The benefits with Holoclar are its ability to repair the damaged ocular surface, to improve or resolve 
symptoms of pain, photophobia and burning and to improve the patient’s visual acuity. The most 
common side effects are eye-related and include problems with cornea (epithelial defects) consistent 
with treatment failure, and inflammation of the eyelids (blepharitis). The most commonly observed 
side effect related to surgery is bleeding around the site of the operation where Holoclar is inserted 
(conjunctival haemorrhage), while the most common side effect related to concomitant corticosteroid 
treatment is increased pressure in the eye (glaucoma).  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Holoclar will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe limbal stem cell 
deficiency (defined by the presence of superficial corneal neovascularisation in at least two corneal 
quadrants, with central corneal involvement, and severely impaired visual acuity), unilateral or 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
bilateral, due to physical or chemical ocular burns. A minimum of 1-2 mm2 of undamaged limbus is 
required for biopsy".  
Holoclar must be administered by an appropriately trained and qualified surgeon and is restricted to 
hospital use only.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Holoclar and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Holoclar 
EMA/CHMP/737422/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
                                                
