17 January 2013 
EMA/CHMP/4601/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bosulif 
Bosutinib 
On 17 January 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Bosulif 100 mg and 500 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of chronic myelogenous 
leukaemia (CML). Bosulif was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 4 August 2010. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Bosulif is bosutinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE14). It acts by inhibiting 
the abnormal Bcr-Abl kinase that promotes CML. 
The benefits with Bosulif are its haematological or cytogenetic response rates in patients with CML 
previously treated with one or more tyrosine kinase inhibitor(s) and for whom imatinib, nilotinib and 
dasatinib are not considered appropriate treatment options. The most common side effects are 
diarrhoea, nausea, thrombocytopenia, vomiting, abdominal pain, rash, anaemia, pyrexia and alanine 
aminotranserase increased. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Bosulif will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Bosulif is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic phase 
(CP), accelerated phase (AP), and blast phase (BP) Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic 
myelogenous leukaemia (Ph+ CML) previously treated with one or more tyrosine kinase inhibitor(s) 
and for whom imatinib, nilotinib and dasatinib are not considered appropriate treatment options.” 
It is proposed that therapy with Bosulif be initiated by a physician experienced in the diagnosis and the 
treatment of patients with CML.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Bosulif and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Bosulif 
EMA/CHMP/4601/2013  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
