30 March 2023
EMA/CHMP/130048/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation)
Neparvis
sacubitril / valsartan
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Neparvis. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited.
The CHMP adopted the addition of a new pharmaceutical form associated with two new strengths 
(Neparvis 6 mg/6 mg and 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsule for opening) and a new indication to include 
treatment of children and adolescents with heart failure. For information, the full indication for granules in 
capsule for opening will be as follows:
Paediatric heart failure
Neparvis is indicated in children and adolescents aged one year or older for treatment of symptomatic 
chronic heart failure with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (see section 5.1).
The CHMP also adopted an extension to the existing indication for Neparvis film coated tablets. For 
information, the full indication for film coated tablets will be as follows:2
Adult heart failure
Neparvis is indicated in adult patients for treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced 
ejection fraction (see section 5.1).
Paediatric heart failure
Neparvis is indicated in children and adolescents aged one year or older for treatment of 
symptomatic chronic heart failure with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (see section 5.1).
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
2 New text in bold
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.
.
Neparvis 
EMA/CHMP/130048/2023
Page 2/2
