European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 February 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/23494/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for 
PANTOZOL CONTROL 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): pantoprazole 
On  19  February  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Pantozol Control 20 mg gastro-resistant tablet intended for short-term treatment of reflux symptoms 
(e.g.  heartburn,  acid  regurgitation)  in  adults,  as  a  medicinal  product  not  subject  to  medical 
prescription. The applicant for this medicinal product is Nycomed GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Pantozol  Control  is  pantoprazole,  a  proton  pump  inhibitor  (ATC  Code: 
A02BC02). It acts by inhibiting the secretion of hydrochloric acid in the stomach by specific blockade 
of the proton pumps of the parietal cells.  
reflux  disease 
The benefits with Pantozol Control are its ability to provide an effective short-term treatment in mild 
reflux  symptoms  associated  with  gastro-oesophageal 
(GORD).  Results  of 
17 randomized controlled clinical studies, in which 20 mg pantoprazole was investigated with regard 
to relief of reflux symptoms as a primary or secondary endpoint, have been presented. In these studies 
Pantozol Control was shown to be significantly superior to placebo and H2-receptor antagonists, and 
statistically non-inferior to other proton-pump inhibitors in the complete relief from heartburn after 1 
and 2 weeks. The most common side effects are diarrhoea and headache. Overall, the safety profile of 
pantoprazole  is  considered  established  on  the  basis  of  data  from  clinical  studies  as  well  as  the 
worldwide post-marketing patient exposure. In general, initiation of treatment of GORD is based on 
symptoms. Based on the available data it is considered that Pantozol Control in the sought indication 
is appropriate to be used as medicinal product not subject to medical prescription. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Short-term  treatment  of  reflux  symptoms  (e.g.  heartburn,  acid 
regurgitation) in adults.” The legal status is: “Medicinal product not subject to medical prescription.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Pantozol Control and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
