16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/210600/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Gavreto 
pralsetinib 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Gavreto, intended for the treatment of patients with rearranged during transfection (RET)-fusion positive 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Gavreto will be available as 100 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Gavreto is pralsetinib, a RET 
receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX23), targeting oncogenic RET fusion proteins (KIF5B-
RET and CCDC6-RET). Certain point mutations in RET or chromosomal rearrangements involving in-frame 
fusions of RET with various partners can result in constitutively activated chimeric RET fusion proteins 
that can act as oncogenic drivers by promoting cell proliferation of tumour cell lines. 
The benefits of Gavreto are its objective response rate and response duration in patients with RET-fusion 
positive NSCLC as observed in a pivotal phase I/II, open-label, multi-cohort, single-arm study. The most 
common side effects are anaemia, increased aspartate aminotransferase, neutropenia, constipation, 
musculoskeletal pain, fatigue, leukopenia, increased alanine aminotransferase and hypertension.  
The full indication is: 
Gavreto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with rearranged during 
transfection (RET) fusion-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) not previously 
treated with a RET inhibitor. 
Gavreto should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Gavreto  
EMA/CHMP/210600/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
