14 April 2011 
EMA/CHMP/273603/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for hu
man use (CHMP) 
Summar
y of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nulojix 
belatacept 
On 14 April 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for H
uman Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicina
l product Nulojix 
250 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, intended for the prophyl
axis of graft rejection 
in adults receiving a renal transplant. The applicant for this medicinal product is
 Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the E
uropean Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Nulojix is belatacept, a selective immunosuppressants (A
TC code: L04AA28). 
Belatacept binds to CD
80 and CD86 on antigen presenting cells. As a result, belatacept blocks CD28 
mediated co-stimulation of T cells inhibiting their activation, thus leading to imm
unosuppression.  
The benefits of Nulojix are its ability to be non-inferior to ciclosporin for patient and
 graft survival at 12 
months in both low and high risk populations, with positive effects on renal fu
nction. Results were 
sustained through 36 months. A superior effect on renal function was on
ly demonstrated in the low risk 
population, while more episodes of acute rejection occurred with belatacept treatment compared to 
ciclosporin in this population. 
The most common serious adverse reactions reported with belatacept in either
 regimen are urinary 
tract infection, CMV infection, pyrexia, increased blood creatinine, pyeloneph
ritis, diarrhoea, 
gastroenteritis, graft dysfunction, leukopenia, pneumonia, basal cell carcinoma, anaemia, dehydration. 
The most commonly rep
orted adverse reactions among patients treated with a belatacept-based 
regimen are diarrhoea, anaemia, urinary tract infection, peripheral oedema, constipation, 
hypertension, pyrexia, nausea, graft dysfunction, cough, vomiting, leukopenia, hypophosphataemia, 
and headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Nulojix will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Nulojix, in combination with corticosteroids and a mycophenolic acid 
(MPA), is indicated for prophylaxis of graft rejection in adults receiving a renal transplant. It is 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
recommended to add an interleukin (IL)-2 receptor antagonist for induction th
erapy to this belatacept-
based regimen”. It is proposed that Nulojix is prescribed and supervised by spe
cialist physicians 
experienced in the management of immunosuppressive therapy and of renal tra
nsplant patients. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the sum
mary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which w
ill be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing
 authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Nulojix and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Nulojix  
EMA/CHMP/273603/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
