22 July 2010 
EMA/CHMP/477330/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
M-M-RVAXPRO 
 measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (live) 
On  22  July  2010  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product M-M-RVAXPRO. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Sanofi Pasteur 
MSD,  SNC.  They  may  request  a  re-examination  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  provided  that  they  notify  the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the indication as follows: 
"M-M-RVAXPRO can be administered to infants from 9 months of age under special circumstances.  
For use in measles outbreaks, or for post-exposure vaccination, or, for use in previously unvaccinated 
individuals  older  than  9  months  who  are  in  contact  with  susceptible  pregnant  women,  and  persons 
likely to be susceptible to mumps and rubella" 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  updated  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  public  assessment  report 
(EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for M-M-RVAXPRO will be as follows2:: 
"M-M-RVAXPRO is indicated for simultaneous vaccination against measles, mumps, and rubella in 
individuals 12 months or older (see section 4.2). 
M-M-RVAXPRO can be administered to infants from 9 months of age under special 
circumstances. (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1) 
1 
issued within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be 
2 
 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
For use in measles outbreaks, or for post-exposure vaccination, or, for use in previously unvaccinated 
individuals older than 9 months who are in contact with susceptible pregnant women, and persons 
likely to be susceptible to mumps and rubella, see section 5.1." 
M-M-RVAXPRO  
Page 2/2
 
 
   
 
