21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/523516/2013  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 
zoledronic acid 
On 21 November 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the prevention of 
skeletal related events (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or surgery to bone, or 
tumour-induced hypercalcaemia) in adult patients with advanced malignancies involving bone, and the 
treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Limited. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zoledronic Acid Accord is zoledronic acid (as monohydrate), a bisphosphonate 
(M05BA08). Zoledronic acid stops the action of the osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved 
in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads to less bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to 
make bones less likely to break, which is useful in preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone 
metastases. Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the 
bones. By preventing the breakdown of bones, zoledronic acid also helps to reduce the amount of 
calcium released into the blood. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord is a generic of Zometa, which has been authorised in the EU since  
20 March 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zoledronic Acid Accord. This 
product is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable; therefore, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Zometa was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zoledronic Acid Accord will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The approved indication is: 
• 
• 
 “Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or 
surgery to bone, or tumour-induced hypercalcaemia) in adult patients with advanced malignancies 
involving bone. 
The treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH)”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Zoledronic Acid Accord and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord  
EMA/CHMP/523516/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
