25 February 2021 
EMA/CHMP/19316/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Evrysdi 
risdiplam 
On 25 February 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Evrysdi2, 
intended for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Evrysdi was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Evrysdi will be available as 0.75 mg/ml powder for oral solution. The active substance of Evrysdi, 
risdiplam, an SMN2 mRNA splicing modifier, is an orally administered small molecule with systemic 
distribution (ATC code: M09AX10). 
The benefits with Evrysdi are its ability to alter the clinical course of the disease, allowing patients to 
achieve developmental milestones which would have been otherwise impossible to achieve. The most 
common side effects are diarrhoea, rash and headache. 
The full indication is: 
Evrysdi is indicated for the treatment of 5q spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in patients 2 months of age 
and older, with a clinical diagnosis of SMA Type 1, Type 2 or Type 3 or with one to four SMN2 copies. 
Treatment with Evrysdi should be initiated by a physician with experience in the management of SMA. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
