13 December 2012 
EMA/CHMP/789757/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Ilaris 
canakinumab 
On 13 December 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Ilaris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Limited. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 2 years and older with body weight of 7.5 kg or above, including: 
  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
  Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
  Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
The original indication was as follows: 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 4 years and older with body weight above 15 kg, including: 
  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
  Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
  Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Ilaris 
EMA/CHMP/789757/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
