14 November 2019 
EMA/545160/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Isturisa 
osilodrostat 
On 14 November 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Isturisa2, 
intended for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Limited. 
Isturisa will be available as 1-mg, 5-mg and 10-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Isturisa is 
osilodrostat, a cortisol synthesis inhibitor (ATC code: H02CA02). Osilodrostat works by inhibiting 
11-beta-hydroxylase (CYP11B1), an enzyme responsible for the final step of cortisol biosynthesis in the 
adrenal gland. 
The benefits with Isturisa are its ability to control or normalise raised cortisol levels. The most common side 
effects are gastrointestinal disorders, fatigue, headache, oedema and, as the most serious common side 
effect, adrenal insufficiency. 
The full indication is: “Isturisa is indicated for the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome in adults”. 
It is proposed that Isturisa be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in endocrinology or 
internal medicine and with access to the appropriate facilities for monitoring of biochemical responses. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
