20 February 2014 
EMA/CHMP/95120/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hemangiol 
propranolol 
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Hemangiol, 
3.75mg/ml, oral solution intended for the treatment of proliferating infantile haemangioma requiring 
systemic therapy. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is PIERRE FABRE DERMATOLOGIE. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Hemangiol is propranolol, a beta-blocking agent (C07AA05). Potential 
mechanisms of action of propranolol in proliferating infantile haemangioma described in the literature 
could include various mechanisms all in close relationship (a local haemodynamic effect, an 
antiangiogenic effect, an apoptosis-triggering effect on capillary endothelial cells or a reduction of both 
VEGF and bFGF signalling pathways). 
The benefits with Hemangiol are its ability to result in a complete or nearly complete resolution of the 
target haemangioma, which was evaluated by blinded centralised independent assessments made on 
photographs at Week 24. The most common side effects are sleep disorders, aggravated respiratory 
tract infections such as bronchitis and bronchiolitis associated with cough and fever, diarrhoea, and 
vomiting. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Hemangiol will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "HEMANGIOL is indicated in the treatment of proliferating infantile 
haemangioma requiring systemic therapy: 
• 
• 
• 
Life- or function-threatening haemangioma, 
Ulcerated haemangioma with pain and/or lack of response to simple wound care measures, 
Haemangioma with a risk of permanent scars or disfigurement. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
It is to be initiated in infants aged 5 weeks to 5 months (see sections 4.2 and 4.4)”". 
It is proposed that Hemangiol be prescribed by physicians who have expertise in the diagnosis, 
treatment and management of infantile haemangioma.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Hemangiol and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Hemangiol 
EMA/CHMP/95120/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
