23 January 2014 
EMA/CHMP/20129/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Stelara 
ustekinumab 
On 23 January 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Stelara. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V.. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
Plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who failed to 
respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapies including 
ciclosporin, methotrexate (MTX) or PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A) (see section 5.1). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Stelara will be as follows2: 
Plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who failed to 
respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapies including 
ciclosporin, methotrexate (MTX) or PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A) (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
STELARA, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis 
in adult patients when the response to previous non-biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug 
(DMARD) therapy has been inadequate (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
