21 July 2022 
EMA/647175/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nulibry 
fosdenopterin 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Nulibry3, intended for the treatment of patients with molybdenum cofactor 
deficiency (MoCD) Type A. The applicant for this medicinal product is Comharsa Life Sciences Ltd. 
Nulibry will be available as a 9.5 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of Nulibry is 
fosdenopterin, a metabolism product (ATC code: A16AX19). Nulibry is a substrate replacement therapy 
that provides an exogenous source of cyclic pyranopterin monophosphate (cPMP) for patients with the 
ultrarare neurodegenerative condition molybdenum cofactor deficiency (MoCD) Type A, in whom the 
product is synthesised into molybdenum cofactor via an intermediary step. Molybdenum cofactor is 
needed for the activation of molybdenum-dependent enzymes, including sulphite oxidase (SOX), an 
enzyme that reduces levels of neurotoxic sulphites. 
The main benefit of Nulibry is that it increases overall survival, as observed in a pooled analysis of 15 
patients in a historical comparison with untreated patients. Additional benefits include improved feeding 
without assistance, growth, motor and cognitive development, seizure control and a reduction of urinary 
S-sulfocysteine. The most common side effects are infusion-related adverse events. 
The full indication is: 
NULIBRY is indicated for the treatment of patients with molybdenum cofactor deficiency (MoCD) 
Type A. 
Nulibry should be initiated and supervised in hospital by a healthcare professional experienced in the 
management of inborn errors of metabolism. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Nulibry  
EMA/647175/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
