10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/651078/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lenalidomide Krka 
lenalidomide 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lenalidomide 
Krka, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma and follicular lymphoma. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto. 
Lenalidomide Krka will be available as hard capsules (2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg and 
25 mg). The active substance of Lenalidomide Krka is lenalidomide, an immunomodulating agent (ATC 
code: L04AX04) that works in a number of different ways including through cytokine modulation, 
induction of T-cell proliferation, anti-proliferation of multiple myeloma cells and inhibition of angiogenesis. 
Lenalidomide Krka is a generic of Revlimid, which has been authorised in the EU since 14 June 2007. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Lenalidomide Krka and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Revlimid. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Multiple myeloma 
Lenalidomide Krka as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients 
with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell 
transplantation. 
Lenalidomide Krka as combination therapy with dexamethasone, or bortezomib and 
dexamethasone, or melphalan and prednisone (see section 4.2) is indicated for the treatment of 
adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. 
Lenalidomide Krka in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple 
myeloma in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. 
Follicular lymphoma 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lenalidomide Krka in combination with rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody) is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with previously treated follicular lymphoma (Grade 1 – 3a). 
Lenalidomide Krka should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of cancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lenalidomide Krka  
EMA/CHMP/651078/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
