22 September 2011 
EMA/776909/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Alimta 
pemetrexed  
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Alimta. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
"ALIMTA is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1)". 
As maintenance therapy in non-small cell lung cancer following first line treatment, Alimta is no longer 
restricted to only follow specific combinations of platinum-based chemotherapy.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Alimta will be as follows: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
ALIMTA in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
ALIMTA in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology 
(see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
ALIMTA is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
ALIMTA is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see section 
5.1). 
Alimta 
EMA/776909/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
