23 September 2010 
EMA/598746/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Mabthera 
rituximab 
On 23 September 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Mabthera. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
MabThera maintenance therapy is indicated for the treatment of follicular lymphoma patients 
responding to induction therapy. 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this Medicines product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment 
report (EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Mabthera will be as follows2: 
MabThera is indicated in adults for the following indications: 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) 
MabThera is indicated for the treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular 
lymphoma in combination with chemotherapy.  
MabThera maintenance therapy is indicated for the treatment of follicular lymphoma 
patients responding to induction therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
MabThera monotherapy is indicated for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma who 
are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy.  
MabThera is indicated for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B cell non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisolone) 
chemotherapy.  
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
MabThera in combination with chemotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with previously 
untreated and relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Only limited data are available on 
efficacy and safety for patients previously treated with monoclonal antibodies including MabThera or 
patients refractory to previous MabThera plus chemotherapy. 
See section 5.1 for further information. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
MabThera in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) including one or more tumour necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor 
therapies. 
For information, the full contraindications for MABTHERA will be as follows3: 
Contraindications for use in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients or to murine proteins. 
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4). 
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state 
Contraindications for use in rheumatoid arthritis  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients or to murine proteins. 
Active, severe infections (see section 4.4). 
Patients in a severely immunocompromised state 
Severe heart failure (New York Heart Association Class IV) or severe, uncontrolled cardiac disease (see 
section 4.4 regarding other cardiovascular diseases). 
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
Mabthera  
EMA/598746/2010  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
