10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/631955/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Enhertu 
trastuzumab deruxtecan 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Enhertu, intended for the treatment of metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. Enhertu was reviewed 
under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Daiichi 
Sankyo Europe GmbH. 
Enhertu will be available as 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Enhertu is trastuzumab deruxtecan, a monoclonal antibody-drug conjugate (ATC code: L01XC41) that 
binds to the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), disrupting HER2 signalling and also 
mediating antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. In addition, after binding, trastuzumab 
deruxtecan undergoes internalisation and intracellular cleavage, resulting in release of deruxtecan. Upon 
release, deruxtecan causes DNA damage and apoptotic cell death. 
The benefits with Enhertu are improved objective response rate and duration of response in patients who 
had received two or more prior anti-HER2 based regimens. The most common side effects are nausea, 
fatigue, vomiting, alopecia, constipation, decreased appetite, anaemia, neutropenia, diarrhoea, 
thrombocytopenia, cough, leucopoenia and headache. 
The full indication is: 
Enhertu as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic HER2 positive breast cancer who have received two or more prior anti HER2 based 
regimens.  
Enhertu should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Enhertu  
EMA/CHMP/631955/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
