13 December 2018 
EMA/CHMP/852740/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zirabev 
bevacizumab 
On 13 December 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zirabev, 
intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, 
renal cell cancer and carcinoma of the cervix. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA 
EEIG. 
Zirabev will be available as a 25 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Zirabev 
is bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC07) which binds to vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF), thereby inhibiting the binding of VEGF to its receptors on the surface of endothelial cells. 
Neutralising the biological activity of VEGF regresses the vascularisation of tumours, normalises remaining 
tumour vasculature, and inhibits the formation of new tumour vasculature, thereby inhibiting tumour 
growth. 
Zirabev is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Avastin (bevacizumab), 
which was authorised in the EU on 12 January 2005. Data show that Zirabev has comparable quality, safety 
and efficacy to Avastin. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Zirabev in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of 
adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Zirabev in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) status, please refer to section 5.1. 
Zirabev, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than 
predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Zirabev in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of adult patients 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
Zirabev, in combination with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan in 
patients who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix (see section 5.1)".  
It is proposed that Zirabev be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Zirabev  
EMA/CHMP/852740/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
