EMA/CHMP/295899/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Livogiva 
teriparatide 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Livogiva, 
intended for the treatment of osteoporosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Theramex Ireland 
Limited. 
Livogiva will be available as a solution for injection (20 micrograms/80 microlitres). The active substance 
of Livogiva is teriparatide, the active aminoterminal fragment of human parathyroid hormone (ATC code: 
H05AA02). It acts via the receptor for parathyroid hormone and has an anabolic effect on bone. 
Livogiva is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Forsteo 
(teriparatide), which was authorised in the EU on 10 June 2003. Data show that Livogiva has comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy to Forsteo. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Livogiva is indicated in adults.  
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non-
vertebral fractures but not hip fractures have been demonstrated.  
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men 
at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
