12 October 2017 
EMA/CHMP/661981/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tacforius 
tacrolimus 
On 12 October 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tacforius, 
intended for prophylaxis and treatment of transplant rejection. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Teva B.V. 
Tacforius will be available as prolonged-release capsules (0.5 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg and 5 mg). The active 
substance of Tacforius is tacrolimus, a macrolide immunosuppressant medicinal product (ATC code: 
L04AD02) that inhibits the activation of the serine-threonine phosphatase, calcineurin, in T lymphocytes. 
This suppresses T lymphocyte activation and the subsequent generation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, 
thereby down regulating processes leading to acute graft rejection. T-helper cell-dependent B cell 
proliferation is also affected. 
Tacforius is a generic of Advagraf, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 April 2007. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Tacforius, and its bioequivalence to the reference product 
Advagraf. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: "Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal products 
in adult patients".  
Tacforius therapy requires careful monitoring by adequately qualified and equipped personnel. The 
medicinal product should only be prescribed, and changes in immunosuppressive therapy initiated, by 
physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy and the management of transplant patients. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
