23 July 2015   
EMA/CHMP/450088/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Intuniv 
guanfacine 
On 23 July 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Intuniv, 
intended for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd. 
Intuniv will be available as 1 mg, 2 mg, 3 mg and 4 mg prolonged-release tablets. The active substance 
of Intuniv is guanfacine, a selective alpha2A-adrenergic receptor agonist (ATC code: C02AC02) which is 
expected to work by modulating the brain signalling pathways that are believed to be responsible for the 
symptoms associated with ADHD.   
The benefits with Intuniv are its ability to reduce the behavioural symptoms of ADHD, mainly 
hyperactivity, impulsivity and/or short attention span, and distractibility. The most common side effects 
are somnolence, headache, fatigue, abdominal pain and sedation. Serious adverse reactions commonly 
reported include hypotension, weight increase, bradycardia and syncope. 
The full indication is:  
“Treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and adolescents 6 to 17 years 
old for whom stimulants are not suitable, not tolerated or have been shown to be ineffective. Intuniv 
must be used as a part of a comprehensive ADHD treatment programme, typically including 
psychological, educational and social measures.” Treatment must be initiated under the supervision of an 
appropriate specialist in childhood and/or adolescent behavioural disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
