13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/830349/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Plerixafor Accord 
plerixafor 
On  13  October  2022,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Plerixafor 
Accord,  intended  for  the  enhanced  mobilisation  of  progenitor  cells  prior  to  stem  cell  transplantation  in 
patients  with  lymphoma  and  multiple  myeloma  whose  haematopoietic  stem  cells  mobilise  poorly.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Plerixafor Accord will be available as a 20 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Plerixafor 
Accord  is  plerixafor,  an  immunostimulant  (ATC  code:  L03AX16).  Plerixafor  is  a  bicyclam  derivative,  a 
selective reversible antagonist of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor, and blocks binding of its cognate ligand, 
stromal  cell-derived  factor-1α  (SDF-1α,  also  known as  CXCL12).  Plerixafor  increases  the  mobilization  of 
haematopoietic  stem  cells  (HSCs)  to  the  peripheral  blood  where  they  can  be  collected  for  HSC 
transplantation.  
Plerixafor Accord is a generic of Mozobil, which has been authorised in the EU since 31 July 2009. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Plerixafor Accord. Since both the reference and the generic 
medicine are aqueous solutions for subcutaneous injection, and contain the same active substance in the 
same concentration and identical amounts of the same excipients, no bioequivalence studies are required. 
A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Adult patients 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated in combination with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) to 
enhance  mobilisation  of  haematopoietic  stem  cells  to  the  peripheral  blood  for  collection  and 
subsequent autologous transplantation in adult patients with lymphoma or multiple myeloma whose 
cells mobilise poorly. 
Paediatric patients (1 to less than 18 years) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plerixafor Accord is indicated in combination with G-CSF to enhance mobilisation of haematopoietic 
stem  cells  to  the  peripheral  blood  for  collection  and  subsequent  autologous  transplantation  in 
children with lymphoma or solid malignant tumours, either: 
• 
pre-emptively, when circulating stem cell count on the predicted day of collection after 
adequate mobilization with G-CSF (with or without chemotherapy) is expected to be 
insufficient with regards to desired hematopoietic stem cells yield, or 
• 
who previously failed to collect sufficient haematopoietic stem cells. 
Plerixafor  Accord  should  be  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  oncology  and/or  haematology.  The 
mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration with an oncology-haematology 
centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells 
can be correctly performed. 
Plerixafor Accord should be administered by subcutaneous injection.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
the European Commission. 
Plerixafor Accord  
EMA/CHMP/830349/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
