22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/749646/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Desloratadine Teva 
desloratadine 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Desloratadine Teva, 5mg film-coated tablets intended for intended for relief of symptoms associated 
with allergic rhinitis and urticaria. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Desloratadine Teva is desloratadine, an “Other antihistamines for systemic 
use” (R06AX27). Desloratadine is an antihistamine. It works by blocking the receptors on which 
histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally fixes itself. When the 
receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a decrease in the symptoms 
of allergy.The approved indication is: “relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria”. 
Desloratadine Teva is a generic of Neoclarytin/ Aerius which has been authorised in the EU since 15 
January 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Desloratadine Teva and its 
bioequivalence with the reference product Neoclarytin/ Aerius. A question and answer document on 
generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Desloratadine Teva will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Desloratadine Teva and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Desloratadine Teva 
EMA/CHMP/749646/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
