European Medicines Agency 
Post-authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 27 July 2009 
EMEA/483040/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ABILIFY 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): aripiprazole 
On 27 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion** via written procedure to recommend the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
for the medicinal product Abilify. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents 15 years and older. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Abilify will be as follows***: 
ABILIFY is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and in adolescents 15 years and 
older. 
ABILIFY  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  manic  episodes  in  Bipolar  I  Disorder 
and  for  the  prevention  of  a  new  manic  episode  in  patients  who  experienced  predominantly  manic 
episodes and whose manic episodes responded to aripiprazole treatment (see section 5.1). 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68  
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
