14 September 2023 
EMA/CHMP/343777/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ebglyss 
lebrikizumab 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ebglyss, 
intended for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Almirall, S.A. 
Ebglyss will be available as a 250 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Ebglyss is 
lebrikizumab, a recombinant human IgG4 monoclonal antibody (ATC code: not yet assigned). It works by 
inhibiting interleukin-13 signalling, which has an important role in skin inflammation, infections and 
pruritus that characterize atopic dermatitis. 
The benefit of Ebglyss is its ability to improve disease symptoms as measured by the Investigator’s 
Global Assessment (IGA) and Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI)-75 scale in patients with atopic 
dermatitis. The most common side effects are conjunctivitis, injection site reactions, allergic conjunctivitis 
and dry eye.  
The full indication is: 
Ebglyss is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adults and 
adolescents 12 years and older with a body weight of at least 40 kg who are candidates for 
systemic therapy. 
Ebglyss should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
atopic dermatitis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
