15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/734147/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Teriparatide SUN 
teriparatide 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Teriparatide 
SUN, intended for the treatment of osteoporosis in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sun 
Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Teriparatide SUN will be available as a 20 µg/80 µl solution for injection. The active substance of 
Teriparatide SUN is teriparatide, which belongs to the parathyroid hormones and analogues involved in 
the calcium homeostasis (ATC code: H05AA02) and stimulates bone formation by direct effects on 
osteoblasts and indirectly increasing the absorption of calcium in the intestines and tubular re-absorption 
of calcium and excretion of phosphate by the kidney. 
The expected benefits with Teriparatide SUN are its ability to increase bone mineral density in the lumbar 
spine and hip and to reduce the risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures (other than the hip) in 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The most common side effect in patients taking teriparatide is 
pain in the arms or legs. 
Teriparatide SUN is a hybrid medicine2 of Forsteo which has been authorised in the EU since 10 June 
2003. Teriparatide SUN contains the same active substance as Forsteo, although for Teriparatide SUN the 
substance is chemically synthesised and for Forsteo it is of biological origin. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Teriparatide SUN, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Forsteo. 
The full indication is: 
Teriparatide SUN is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture 
(see section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vertebral and non- vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women 
and men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Teriparatide SUN  
EMA/CHMP/734147/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
