24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/571584/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cotellic 
cobimetinib 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cotellic, 
intended for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic melanoma in combination with vemurafenib. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Ltd. 
Cotellic will be available as 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Cotellic is cobimetinib, an 
antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01) which blocks the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway 
by targeting the kinases MEK1 and MEK2, thereby inhibiting intracellular signalling and decreasing tumour 
cell proliferation, and delaying the onset of resistance when compared to BRAF inhibitor monotherapy 
(vemurafenib). 
The benefits with Cotellic are its ability to improve progression-free survival in melanoma patients with a 
BRAFV600 mutation compared with vemurafenib monotherapy. The most common side effects observed 
with a higher frequency in the Cotellic plus vemurafenib arm were diarrhoea, rash, nausea, pyrexia, 
photosensitivity reaction, increased alanine aminotransferase, increased aspartate aminotransferase, 
increased blood creatine phosphokinase, and vomiting.  
The full indication is: “Cotellic is indicated for use in combination with vemurafenib for the treatment of 
adult patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation (see sections 4.4 
and 5.1).” It is proposed that Cotellic in combination with vemurafenib should only be initiated and 
supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
