23 July 2020 
EMA/CHMP/377211/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fampridine Accord 
fampridine 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fampridine 
Accord, intended to improve walking of adult patients suffering from multiple sclerosis with walking 
disability. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Fampridine Accord will be available as 10 mg prolonged-release tablets. The active substance of 
Fampridine Accord is fampridine, a potassium channel blocker (ATC code: N07XX07). By blocking 
potassium channels, fampridine reduces the leakage of ionic current through these channels, thereby 
prolonging repolarization and thus enhancing action potential formation in demyelinated axons and 
neurological function. By enhancing action potential formation, it may cause more impulses to be 
conducted in the central nervous system.  
Fampridine Accord is a generic of Fampyra, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 July 2011. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Fampridine Accord and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Fampyra. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Fampridine Accord is indicated for the improvement of walking in adult patients with multiple 
sclerosis with walking disability (EDSS 4-7).  
It is proposed that Fampridine Accord be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
