24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/372629/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for hu
man use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (in
itial authorisation) 
Telmisartan Actavis 
telmisartan 
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) ado
pted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authoris
ation for the medicinal product 
Telmisartan Actavis, 20 mg, 40 mg and 80 mg, tablets intended for the treatm
ent of essential 
hypertension and reduction of cardiovascular morbidity. The applicant for this m
edicinal product is 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medi
cines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Tel
misartan Actavis is telmisartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist 
(C09CA07) displaces angiotensin II with very high affinity from its binding site a
t the AT1 receptor 
subtype, which i
s responsible for the known actions of angiotensin II. 
Telmisartan Actavis is a generic of Micardis, which has been authorised in the EU si
nce 16 December 
1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Telmisartan Actavis, and i
ts 
bioequivalence with the reference product Micardis. A question and answer docu
ment on generic 
medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Telmisartan Actavis will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “treatment of essential hypertension in adults and reducti
on of 
cardiovascular morbidity in patients with: i) manifest atherothrombotic cardiovascular disease (history 
of coronary heart disease, stroke, or peripheral arterial disease) or ii) type 2 diabetes mellitus with 
documented target organ damage, was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation”. It is proposed that Telmisartan Actavis is prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of hypertension.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summ
ary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the bas
is of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Telmisartan Actavis and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Telmisartan Actavis  
EMA/CHMP/372629/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
