21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/470877/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories 
mercaptopurine 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories, 20mg/ml oral suspension, intended for the treatment of acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in adults, adolescents and children. Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories 
was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 30 April 2009. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Nova Laboratories Ltd.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories is mercaptopurine, a cytotoxic purine 
analogue (L01BB02) that interferes with nucleic acid metabolism and inhibits growth of malignant cells. 
The benefits with Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories are its ability to help induce and primarily help 
maintain remission of disease; these are well established since mercaptopurine in tablet form has been 
used for many years in the treatment of ALL. The added benefit with Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories 
is that, as an oral suspension, it ensures better precision and ease of administration and allows more 
flexible dosing. The most common side effects are also well known after years of mercaptopurine use 
and include stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, gastro-intestinal ulceration and bleeding, 
hepatotoxicity, bone marrow toxicity and immune suppression. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories  is indicated for the treatment of acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in adults, adolescents and children”. It is proposed that Mercaptopurine 
Nova Laboratories is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Mercaptopurine Nova Laboratories  
EMA/CHMP/470877/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
