European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 November 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMEA/CHMP/745393/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
THYROGEN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): thyrotropin alfa 
On  19  November  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Thyrogen.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
GENZYME EUROPE B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Thyrogen  is  indicated  for  pre-therapeutic  stimulation  in  combination  with  100 mCi  (3.7 GBq) 
radioiodine for ablation of thyroid tissue remnants in patients who have undergone a near-total or total 
thyroidectomy  for  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  and  who  do  not  have  evidence  of  distant 
metastatic thyroid cancer.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Thyrogen will be as follows***: 
“Thyrogen  is  indicated  for  use  with  serum  thyroglobulin  (Tg)  testing  with  or  without  radioiodine 
imaging  for  the  detection  of  thyroid  remnants  and  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  in  post-
thyroidectomy patients maintained on hormone suppression therapy (THST).  
Low risk patients with well-differentiated thyroid carcinoma who have undetectable serum Tg levels 
on THST and no rh (recombinant human) TSH-stimulated increase of Tg levels may be followed-up 
by assaying rh TSH-stimulated Tg levels. 
Thyrogen  is  indicated  for  pre-therapeutic  stimulation  in  combination  with  100 mCi  (3.7 GBq) 
radioiodine for ablation of thyroid tissue remnants in patients who have undergone a near-total 
or  total  thyroidectomy  for  well-differentiated  thyroid  cancer  and  who  do  not  have  evidence  of 
distant metastatic thyroid cancer.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
