21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/126645/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Genvoya 
elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Genvoya. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences Ireland UC. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the indication for Genvoya to include treatment of paediatric patients 
from 2 years of age. For information, the full indication therefore is as follows:2 
Genvoya is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) infection without 
any known mutations associated with resistance to the integrase inhibitor class, emtricitabine or 
tenofovir in adults and paediatric patients aged from 2 years and with body weight at least 
14 kg. as follows: 
In adults and adolescents paediatric patients aged from 12 years and with body weight at 
• 
least 35 kg 
In children aged from 6 years and with body weight at least 25 kg for whom alternative 
• 
regimens are unsuitable due to toxicities. 
The CHMP also recommended the addition of a new strength as follows: 90 mg/90 mg/120 mg/6 mg 
film-coated tablets. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
