20 February 2014 
EMA/CHMP/89644/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Laventair 
umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol 
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Laventair, 
umeclidinium bromide 55 µg / vilanterol 22 µg, inhalation powder, pre-dispensed, intended for the 
symptomatic treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Glaxo Group Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
Laventair (ATC code: R03AL03, Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics) is a fixed-dose combination of the active substance umeclidinium bromide, a long 
acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (also referred to as an anticholinergic), and the active substance 
vilanterol, a selective long-acting beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist. Long acting muscarinic receptor 
antagonists exert their bronchodilatory activity by competitively inhibiting the binding of acetylcholine 
with muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on airway smooth muscle. Beta2-adrenergic receptor agonists 
stimulate intracellular adenylate cyclase which converts ATP into cyclic AMP. Increased cyclic AMP 
levels cause relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate 
hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells.  
The benefits with Laventair in the treatment of COPD are its ability to improve the trough FEV1 (lung 
function endpoint) and to improve the TDI focal score (symptomatic endpoint) at week 24 in 6 months 
studies versus placebo.  
The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis and headache. An increased incidence of 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events that may occur with long-term use of Laventair is a 
potential safety concern. However robust long-term (> 1year) safety data is not yet available. 
Therefore cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events have been included as an important potential risk 
in the Risk Management plan and the applicant will conduct a post-authorisation safety study to further 
investigate this risk. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A Pharmacovigilance plan for Laventair will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Laventair is indicated as a maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult patients 
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Laventair and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Laventair 
EMA/CHMP/89644/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
