30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/33389/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vaxchora 
Cholera vaccine (recombinant, live, oral) 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vaxchora, 
intended for prophylaxis against disease caused by Vibrio cholerae in adults and children. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Emergent Netherlands B.V. 
Vaxchora will be available as an effervescent powder and a powder for oral suspension. Vaxchora is a 
bacterial vaccine (ATC code: J07AE02) containing as active substance live attenuated cholera bacteria (V. 
cholerae O1 classical Inaba strain live attenuated CVD 103-HgR), which replicate in the gastrointestinal 
tract of the recipient and induce serum vibriocidal antibody and memory B cell responses. 
The benefits with Vaxchora are its ability to protect immunologically naïve people against moderate to 
severe diarrhoea induced by cholera bacteria. The most common side effects are tiredness, headache, 
abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, and lack of appetite. 
The full indication is: “active immunisation against disease caused by Vibrio cholerae serogroup O1 in 
adults and children aged 6 years and older. This vaccine should be used in accordance with official 
recommendations.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
