22 March 2018 
EMA/CHMP/58481/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zessly 
infliximab 
On 22 March 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zessly, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing 
spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. 
Zessly will be available as a 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Zessly is infliximab, a tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AB02). Infliximab 
is a chimeric human murine monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to both soluble and 
transmembrane forms of TNF-α. 
Zessly is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Remicade 
(infliximab), which was authorised in the EU on 13 August 1999. Data show that Zessly has comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy to Remicade (infliximab). More information on biosimilar medicines can be 
found here.  
The full indication is:  
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Zessly, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in: 
• 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as 
measured by X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Adult Crohn’s disease 
Zessly is indicated for: 
• 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies. 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including 
antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease, in children and adolescents 
aged 6 to 17 years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, 
an immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. Infliximab has been studied only in combination with 
conventional immunosuppressive therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids 
and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis, in children and adolescents 
aged 6 to 17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and 6-MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for 
such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients 
when the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Zessly should be administered 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Zessly is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who 
Zessly  
EMA/CHMP/58481/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
  
  
failed to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy 
including cyclosporine, methotrexate or PUVA (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Zessly is to be initiated and supervised by qualified physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, ankylosing spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis or psoriasis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Zessly  
EMA/CHMP/58481/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
  
  
