22 October 2015  
EMA/690530/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Imlygic 
talimogene laherparepvec 
On 22 October 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Imlygic, 
intended for the treatment of melanoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
Imlygic will be available as a solution for injection (1x 10e6 PFU/ml and 1x 10e8 PFU/ml). The active 
substance of Imlygic is talimogene laherparepvec, an oncolytic virus derived from HSV-1. The virus has 
been modified to replicate within tumours and to produce the immune stimulatory protein human GM-
CSF, which promotes a systemic anti-tumour immune response and an effector T-cell response.  
Imlygic has been shown to increase the durable response rate (DRR) compared with GM-CSF treatment 
with a DRR of 25.2% compared to 1.2%, respectively, in patients with unresectable melanoma that is 
regionally or distantly metastatic (Stage IIIB, IIIC and IVM1a) with no bone, brain, lung or other visceral 
disease.  
The most common side effects are fatigue, chills, pyrexia, nausea, influenza-like illness and injection site 
pain. Imlygic is not to be used in patients who are severely immunocompromised (e.g. patients with 
severe congenital or acquired cellular and/or humoral immune deficiency). 
The full indication is: “Imlygic is indicated for the treatment of adults with unresectable melanoma that is 
regionally or distantly metastatic (Stage IIIB, IIIC and IVM1a) with no bone, brain, lung or other visceral 
disease  (see section 4.4 and 5.1).” It is proposed that Imlygic be initiated and supervised by a qualified 
physician experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
