1 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/220588/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Palonosetron Accord 
palonosetron 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Palonosetron Accord, 
intended for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. 
Palonosetron Accord will be available as 250 µg Solution for injection. The active substance of 
Palonosetron Accord is palonosetron, (as hydrochloride), an antiemetic and antinauseant agent belonging 
to the class of serotonin (5-HT3) antagonists (ATC code: A04AA05). It acts by blocking serotonin 
receptors and subsequently the neuronal cascade of events leading to nausea and vomiting caused by 
cancer chemotherapeutic agents. 
Palonosetron Accord is a generic of Aloxi, which has been authorised in the EU since 22 March 2005. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Palonosetron Accord. Since Palonosetron Accord is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference 
product Aloxi was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
Palonosetron Accord is indicated in adults for: 
• 
• 
the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy, 
the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. 
Palonosetron Accord is indicated in paediatric patients 1 month of age and older for. 
• 
The prevention of acute nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy and prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
It is proposed that Palonosetron Accord be administered by a healthcare professional under appropriate 
medical supervision. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Palonosetron Accord  
EMA/CHMP/220588/2016 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
