9 November 2017 
EMA/CHMP/643958/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ocrevus 
ocrelizumab 
On 9 November 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ocrevus, 
intended for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis and primary progressive multiple 
sclerosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
Ocrevus will be available as a 300-mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Ocrevus is ocrelizumab, a recombinant humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that selectively targets 
CD20-expressing B cells (ATC code: L04AA36). 
The benefits with Ocrevus are its ability to significantly suppress relapses, sub-clinical disease activity 
measured by MRI, and disease progression in relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, as well as to 
significantly delay disease progression and reduce deterioration in walking speed in patients with early 
primary progressive multiple sclerosis. The most common side effects are infusion-related reactions and 
infections. 
The full indication is:  
"Ocrevus is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
(RMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features (see section 5.1).  
Ocrevus is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with early primary progressive multiple 
sclerosis (PPMS) in terms of disease duration and level of disability, and with imaging features 
characteristic of inflammatory activity (see section 5.1)." 
Ocrevus treatment should be initiated and supervised by an experienced healthcare professional with 
access to appropriate medical support to manage severe reactions such as serious infusion-related 
reactions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ocrevus  
EMA/CHMP/643958/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
