16 December 2010 
EMA/CHMP/820343/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Esbriet 
pirfenidone 
On 16 December 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Esbriet, 
hard capsules, 267 mg intended for treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Esbriet was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 16 November 2004. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is InterMune Europe Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance in Esbriet is pirfenidone, an immunosuppressant (L04AX05). Its mechanism of 
action has not been fully established. However, existing data suggest that pirfenidone exerts both 
antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory properties. 
The benefits with Esbriet are its ability to reduce the rate of deterioration of lung function measured as 
reduced decline of percent predicted Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary 
fibrosis. It is noted that demonstration of this effect in the clinical studies was modest but measureable. 
In addition, a trend in improvement of the “six minute walk test” was observed. The most common 
side effects are nausea, rash, fatigue, diarrhoea, dyspepsia and photosensitivity reaction.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Esbriet will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Esbriet is indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate 
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF).” It is proposed that treatment should be initiated and supervised 
by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of IPF. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Esbriet and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Esbriet  
EMA/CHMP/820343/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
