23 June 2011 
EMA/CHMP/477609/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinionF
1
F (initial authorisation) 
Votubia 
everolimus 
On 23 June 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Votubia, 2.5mg, 5mg,10mg, tablet, intended for the treatment of patients aged 3 years and older with 
subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who 
require therapeutic intervention but are not amenable to surgery. Votubia was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 4 August 2010.   The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Votubia is everolimus, a protein kinase inhibitors (L01XE10), which inhibits a 
signalling pathway associated with the translation and synthesis of proteins and as a consequence, 
inhibits the growth and proliferation of tumour cells.  
The benefit with Votubia is its ability to reduce primary tumour volume in SEGA patients. The most 
common side effects are stomatitis, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, otitis media, pyrexia, 
and acneiform dermatitis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Votubia will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
“Votubia is indicated for the treatment of patients aged 3 years and older with subependymal giant cell 
astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who require therapeutic 
intervention but are not amenable to surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in SEGA volume. Further clinical benefit, such as 
improvement in disease-related symptoms, has not been demonstrated.” It is proposed that treatment 
with Votubia should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with TSC and 
therapeutic drug monitoring. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Votubia and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
2
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditionalF
F. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Votubia  
EMA/CHMP/477609/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                               
 
