22 April 2022 
EMA/CHMP/219365/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tecentriq 
atezolizumab 
On 22 April 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tecentriq. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the treatment of early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
For information, the full indications for Tecentriq will be as follows:2 
Urothelial carcinoma (UC)  
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic UC: 
after prior platinum-containing chemotherapy, or 
• 
•  who are considered cisplatin ineligible, and whose tumours have a PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% 
(see section 5.1). 
Early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)  
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated as adjuvant treatment following complete 
resection and platinum-based chemotherapy for adult patients with NSCLC with a high 
risk of recurrence whose tumours have PD-L1 expression on ≥ 50% of tumour cells 
(TC) and who do not have EGFR mutant or ALK-positive NSCLC (see section 5.1 for 
selection criteria). 
Metastatic NSCLC   
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated for the first-
line treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-squamous NSCLC. In patients with EGFR 
mutant or ALK-positive NSCLC, Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, paclitaxel and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carboplatin, is indicated only after failure of appropriate targeted therapies (see section 5.1). 
Tecentriq, in combination with nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated for the first-line 
treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-squamous NSCLC who do not have EGFR mutant 
or ALK-positive NSCLC (see section 5.1). 
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic NSCLC whose tumours have a PD-L1 expression ≥ 50% TC or ≥ 10% tumour-
infiltrating immune cells (IC) and who do not have EGFR mutant or ALK-positive NSCLC (see 
section 5.1). 
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic NSCLC after prior chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR mutant or ALK-positive 
NSCLC should also have received targeted therapies before receiving Tecentriq (see section 
5.1). 
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC)  
Tecentriq, in combination with carboplatin and etoposide, is indicated for the first-line treatment 
of adult patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) (see section 5.1).  
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) 
Tecentriq in combination with nab-paclitaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic TNBC whose tumours have PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
and who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced or unresectable HCC who have not received prior systemic therapy (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Tecentriq  
EMA/CHMP/219365/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
