17 December 2015 
EMA/CHMP/550291/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cyramza 
ramucirumab 
On 17 December 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted positive 
opinions recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cyramza. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted two new indications as follows: 
“Cyramza in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with disease progression after platinum-
based chemotherapy.” 
“Cyramza, in combination with FOLFIRI (irinotecan, folinic acid, and 5-fluorouracil), is indicated 
for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with disease 
progression on or after prior therapy with bevacizumab, oxaliplatin and a fluoropyrimidine.” 
For information, the full indications for Cyramza will be as follows2: 
“Cyramza in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced gastric cancer or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with disease progression 
after prior platinum and fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy (see section 5.1).  
Cyramza monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastric 
cancer or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with disease progression after prior 
platinum or fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy, for whom treatment in combination with paclitaxel is 
not appropriate (see section 5.1). 
Cyramza, in combination with FOLFIRI (irinotecan, folinic acid, and 5-fluorouracil), is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) 
with disease progression on or after prior therapy with bevacizumab, oxaliplatin and a 
fluoropyrimidine. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Cyramza in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with disease progression 
after platinum-based chemotherapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Cyramza  
EMA/CHMP/550291/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
