19 May 2022 
EMA/260811/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xenpozyme 
olipudase alfa 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xenpozyme2, 
intended for the treatment of non-central nervous system (CNS) manifestations of acid sphingomyelinase 
deficiency (ASMD) type A/B or type B. 
Xenpozyme was reviewed under the accelerated assessment programme of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe BV. 
Xenpozyme will be available as a 20 mg powder to be reconstituted into a concentrate for solution for 
infusion. The active substance of Xenpozyme is olipudase alfa, a recombinant human acid 
sphingomyelinase (ATC code: A16AB25), which is an enzyme replacement therapy that provides an 
exogenous source of acid sphingomyelinase. 
The benefits of Xenpozyme are its ability to improve the percentage of the predicted DLco (diffusing 
capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide) and reduce spleen volume, as observed in a multicentre, 
randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, repeat-dose phase II/III study in adult patients with 
ASMD types A/B and B. The most common side effects are headache, pyrexia, urticaria, nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, myalgia, pruritus and increases in C-reactive protein. 
The full indication is: 
Xenpozyme is indicated as an enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of non-Central 
Nervous System (CNS) manifestations of Acid Sphingomyelinase Deficiency (ASMD) in paediatric 
and adult patients with type A/B or type B. 
Xenpozyme should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of ASMD or other inherited 
metabolic disorders. Xenpozyme infusion should be administered by a healthcare professional with access 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the European Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to appropriate medical support to manage potential severe reactions such as serious systemic 
hypersensitivity reactions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Xenpozyme  
EMA/260811/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
