25 July 2019 
EMA/CHMP/394791/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Inbrija 
levodopa 
On 25 July 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Inbrija, intended for the 
treatment of symptoms of off periods in Parkinson’s disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Acorda Therapeutics Ireland Limited. 
Inbrija will be available as hard capsules containing inhalation powder (33 mg) to be used with an oral 
inhaler. The active substance of Inbrija is levodopa (ATC code: N04BA01) which is a precursor of dopamine, 
and is given as dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson’s disease. 
The benefits with Inbrija are its ability to increase levodopa plasma concentrations and provide relief of off 
periods. The most common side effects are cough, falls, upper respiratory tract infections, new or increased 
dyskinesia and discoloured sputum. 
The full indication is: “Inbrija is indicated for the intermittent treatment of episodic motor fluctuations (off 
episodes) in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) treated with a levodopa/dopa-decarboxylase 
inhibitor.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
