21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/587645/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zytiga 
abiraterone  
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zytiga 
250mg tablet, intended for the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zytiga is abiraterone acetate, a hormone antagonist and related agent 
(L02BX03) that inhibits the production of androgens in the testes, adrenal glands and overall. 
The benefits with Zytiga are its ability to improve the survival of patients and to delay the progression 
of disease. The most common side effects are peripheral oedema, hypokalaemia, hypertension and 
urinary tract infection. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zytiga will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Zytiga is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of 
metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after 
a docetaxel-based chemotherapy regimen”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Zytiga and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
