26 March 2020 
EMA/CHMP/136468/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zeposia 
ozanimod 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zeposia, intended for 
the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) with active disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe BV. 
Zeposia will be available as 0.23 mg and 0.46 mg capsules for dose escalation and 0.92 mg capsules for 
maintenance.  The  active  substance  of  Zeposia  is  ozanimod,  a  selective  immunosuppressant  (ATC  code: 
L04AA38).  Ozanimod  is  a  sphingosine  1-phosphate  receptor  modulator,  which  binds  selectively  to 
sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor subtypes 1 and 5. Ozanimod causes lymphocyte retention in lymphoid 
tissues. The mechanism by which ozanimod exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is unknown but 
may involve the reduction of lymphocyte migration into the central nervous system. 
The benefits with Zeposia are its ability to reduce focal inflammatory activity as defined by clinical (relapses) 
or  imaging  features  (new/enlarging  T2  lesions  or  new  gadolinium-enhancing  lesions)  in  active  RRMS 
patients. The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis and lymphopenia (related to the mechanism 
of action); less common side effects are hypertension and increased liver enzyme level.  
The full indication is: 
The  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis  (RRMS)  with  active 
disease as defined by clinical or imaging features. 
Zeposia  should  be  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  multiple  sclerosis.  Detailed 
recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product characteristics 
(SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made available in 
all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European 
Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
