European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/127261/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE 
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MODIGRAF 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tacrolimus 
On 19 March 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Modigraf, 
0.2 mg  and  1 mg  granules  for  oral  suspension  intended  for:  “Prophylaxis  of  transplant  rejection  in 
adult and paediatric, kidney, liver or heart allograft recipients.  
Treatment  of  allograft  rejection  resistant  to  treatment  with  other  immunosuppressive  medicinal 
products in adult and paediatric patients.”  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
The  active  substance  of  Modigraf  is  Tacrolimus,  a  macrolide  immunosuppressant  medicinal  product  
(ATC Code: L04AA05) that inhibits the activation of serine threonine phosphatase, calcineurin, in T-
lymphocytes  and  thus,  suppresses  T-cell  activation,  and  the  subsequent  generation  of  cytotoxic 
lymphocytes,  thereby  down-regulating  processes  leading  to  acute  graft  rejection.    T-helper  cell 
dependent B-cell proliferation is also affected. 
The  benefit  with  Modigraf  is  mainly  that  it  offers  an  oral  formulation  of  tacrolimus  suitable  for 
children and for seriously ill adults with difficulties to swallow capsules.  
The  most  common  side  effects  observed  from  the  paediatric  clinical  trials  are  fever,  infections  and 
abnormal  liver  function  tests.    Other  adverse  reactions  seen  with  the  use  of  tacrolimus  are  renal 
impairment,  glucose  metabolism  disorders  and  hypertension,  although  the  adverse  reaction  profile 
associated  with  immunosuppressive  agents  is  often  difficult  to  establish  owing  to  the  underlying 
disease and the concurrent use of multiple medications. However, many of the adverse reactions are 
reversible and/or respond to dose reduction. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Modigraf, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult and paediatric, kidney, liver or 
heart  allograft  recipients.  Treatment  of  allograft  rejection  resistant  to  treatment  with  other 
immunosuppressive medicinal products in adult and paediatric patients.”  
It  is  proposed  that  Modigraf  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  immunosuppressive  therapy 
and the management of transplant patients.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Modigraf  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
