15 September 2016 
EMA/CHMP/603622/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ninlaro 
ixazomib 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Ninlaro, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Ninlaro was designated as an orphan medicinal 
product on 27 September 2011. The applicant for this medicinal product is Takeda Pharma A/S. 
Ninlaro will be available as 2.3, 3 and 4 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Ninlaro is ixazomib, 
a reversible proteasome inhibitor (ATC code: L01XX50). 
The benefits with Ninlaro are its ability to delay the progression of multiple myeloma when used in 
combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, 
constipation, thrombocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy, nausea, peripheral oedema, vomiting and back 
pain. 
The full indication is: “Ninlaro in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy.” It is 
proposed that treatment must be initiated and monitored under the supervision of a physician experienced 
in the management of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
