European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/472224/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
AZARGA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): brinzolamide / timolol   
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Azarga 
10 mg/ml / 5 mg/ml Eye drops, suspension intended the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in 
adult  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  for  whom  monotherapy  provides 
insufficient IOP reduction.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Alcon Laboratories (UK) Ltd. 
The  active  substances  of  Azarga  are  two  well  known  ophthalmic  drugs,  Timolol  (5  mg/mL)  and 
Brinzolamide (10 mg/mL), in a fixed combination. 
Brinzolamide  is  a  carbonic  anhydrase  II  (CA-II)  inhibitor.  These  compounds  decrease  the  aqueous 
humor production by means of inhibiting the conversion of carbon dioxide to bicarbonate in the ciliary 
body of the eye, thus decreasing intraocular pressure (IOP). 
Timolol is a non-selective β1 and β2 adrenoceptor antagonist that lowers IOP by suppressing aqueous 
humor formation in humans.  
The benefits with Azarga are its ability to decrease intraocular pressure without having to administer 
separately brinzolamide and timolol eye drops. The most common side effects are blurred vision, eye 
irritation, eye pain, and foreign body sensation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Azarga, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication for AZARGA is: Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with 
open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  for  whom  monotherapy  provides  insufficient  IOP 
reduction. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Azarga and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
