22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/569545/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Avastin 
bevacizumab 
On 22 September 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Avastin. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Avastin, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line treatment of  
advanced (FIGO stages III B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal 
cancer.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Avastin will be as follows2: 
Avastin (bevacizumab) in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for 
treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Avastin in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic 
breast cancer. For further information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1. 
Avastin in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic 
breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options including taxanes or anthracyclines 
is not considered appropriate. Patients who have received taxane and anthracycline-containing 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
regimens in the adjuvant setting within the last 12 months should be excluded from treatment with 
Avastin in combination with capecitabine. For further information as to HER2 status, please refer to 
section 5.1.  
Avastin, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of patients 
with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than 
predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Avastin in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of patients with 
advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
Avastin, in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line 
treatment of  advanced (FIGO stages III B, III C and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, 
or primary peritoneal cancer. 
Avastin  
EMA/CHMP/569545/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
