24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/571712/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Blincyto 
blinatumomab 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Blincyto, 
intended for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-negative acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (ALL). Blincyto was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 24 July 2009. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
Blincyto will be available as a powder (1 vial of 38.5 micrograms for preparing a concentrate for solution 
for infusion) and a stabilising solution. The active substance of Blincyto is blinatumomab, a bispecific T-
cell engager antibody (ATC code: L01XC19). 
The benefits with Blincyto are its ability to increase the proportion of patients who have complete 
remission and molecular remission within the first two treatment cycles. Complete remission and 
molecular remission are in fact associated with better relapse-free survival and overall survival rates; 
moreover, patients who receive haematopoietic stem cell transplant in complete response / molecular 
response have the higher chance to reach cure. 
The most common side effects are infusion-related reactions, pyrexia, headache, febrile neutropenia, 
peripheral oedema, nausea, hypokalaemia, constipation, anaemia, diarrhoea, tremor, fatigue and chills. 
The full indication is: “Blincyto is indicated for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome 
negative relapsed or refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL)”. It is proposed that 
Blincyto treatment should be started and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
haematological malignancies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
