European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/129961/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
REYATAZ 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): atazanavir sulphate 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Reyataz.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Antiretroviral treatment naïve patients. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Reyataz will be as follows***: 
Reyataz is indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products. 
In  antiretroviral  treatment  experienced  patients,  the  demonstration  of  efficacy  is  based  on  a  study 
comparing  Reyataz  300 mg  once  daily  in  combination  with  ritonavir  100 mg  once  daily  with 
lopinavir/ritonavir,  each  regimen  in  combination  with  tenofovir  (see sections  4.8  and 5.1).  Based  on 
available  virological  and  clinical  data,  no  benefit  is  expected  in  patients  with  strains  resistant  to 
multiple  protease  inhibitors  (≥ 4 PI  mutations).  The  choice  of  Reyataz  in  treatment  experienced 
patients  should  be  based  on  individual  viral  resistance  testing  and  the  patient’s  treatment  history 
(see section 5.1). 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
