17 January 2013 
EMA/CHMP/6584/2013 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Maruxa 
Memantine 
On 17 January 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Maruxa, 10 
mg and 20 mg, film coated tablets intended for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe 
Alzheimer’s disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Krka d.d. Novo mesto. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Maruxa is memantine hydrochloride, a psychoanaleptic, anti-dementia drug 
(N06DX01). Memantine is a voltage-dependent, moderate-affinity non-competitive N-methyl-D-
aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, modulating the effects of pathologically elevated tonic levels of 
glutamate that may lead to neuronal dysfunction. 
Maruxa is a generic of Ebixa, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 May 2002. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Maruxa, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product 
Ebixa was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Maruxa will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: Treatment of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease. 
It is proposed that Maruxa is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of Alzheimer’s 
dementia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Maruxa and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Maruxa  
EMA/CHMP/6584/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
