17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/449146/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Phelinun 
melphalan 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Phelinun, 
intended for the treatment of certain haematological and other cancers and as reduced intensity 
conditioning (RIC) treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in 
haematological diseases in adults and children. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is ADIENNE S.r.l. S.U. 
Phelinun will be available as 50-mg and 200-mg powder and solvent for concentrate for solution for 
infusion. The active substance of Phelinun is melphalan, an anti-neoplastic agent (ATC code: L01AA03) 
which prevents the separation and replication of DNA, thereby preventing cell replication. 
The benefits of Phelinun from published studies in adults and children include increased overall survival 
(OS), disease-free survival (DFS), event-free survival (EFS) and non-relapse mortality (NRM). The most 
common side effects are myelosuppression and haematological toxicities, gastrointestinal toxicity and 
immune system disorders. Amenorrhoea, ovarian disorders and premature menopause were also 
commonly reported. Infections, acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) were reported as the 
major causes of morbidity and mortality in the allo-HSCT setting. Phelinun is a hybrid medicine2 of 
Alkeran which has been authorised in the EU since 1996. Phelinun contains the same active substance as 
Alkeran but is intended for an additional indication based on published literature. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Phelinun. Since Phelinun is administered 
intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product Alkeran was 
not required. 
The full indications are: 
High-dose of PHELINUN used alone or in combination with other cytotoxic medicinal products 
and/or total body irradiation is indicated in the treatment of:  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
-  multiple myeloma, 
-  malignant lymphoma (Hodgkin, non-Hodgkin lymphoma), 
- 
- 
- 
acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia, 
childhood neuroblastoma, 
ovarian cancer, 
-  mammary adenocarcinoma.  
PHELINUN in combination with other cytotoxic medicinal products is indicated as reduced intensity 
conditioning (RIC) treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-
HSCT) in malignant haematological diseases in adults.  
PHELINUN in combination with other cytotoxic medicinal products is indicated as conditioning 
regimen prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in haematological diseases in 
the paediatric population as: 
-  Myeloablative conditioning (MAC) treatment in case of malignant haematological diseases 
-  RIC treatment in case of non-malignant haematological diseases. 
Phelinun should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
Phelinun  
EMA/CHMP/449146/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
