13 December 2012 
EMA/CHMP/805882/2012/Corr.* 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Selincro 
nalmefene 
On 13 December 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Selincro, 18 mg*, film-coated tablet intended for the reduction of alcohol consumption in adult patients 
with alcohol dependence who have a high drinking risk level, without physical withdrawal symptoms 
and who do not require immediate detoxification. The applicant for this medicinal product is H. 
Lundbeck A/S. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Selincro is nalmefene, a drug used in alcohol dependence. Nalmefene is an 
opioid system modulator with a distinct μ, δ, and κ receptor profile. It is a selective opioid receptor 
ligand with antagonist activity at the μ and δ receptors and partial agonist activity at the κ receptor. 
Acute alcohol intake was shown to result in mesolimbic dopamine release (facilitated by the release of 
β-endorphins), which can provide positive reinforcement. Nalmefene is thought to counteract the 
reinforcement effects and to reduce alcohol consumption, possibly by modulating these cortico-
mesolimbic functions.  
The benefits with Selincro are its ability to reduce alcohol consumption in adult patients with alcohol 
dependence who have a high drinking risk level. The most common side effects are rather unspecific, 
such as nausea or dizziness. Some patients reported sleep-related events (either at day- or night-
time). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Selincro will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: Selincro is indicated for the reduction of alcohol consumption in adult 
patients with alcohol dependence who have a high drinking risk level (see section 5.1), without 
physical withdrawal symptoms and who do not require immediate detoxification. 
Selincro should only be prescribed in conjunction with continuous psychosocial support focussed on 
treatment adherence and reducing alcohol consumption. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
* Dosage corrected: 18.6 mg to 18 mg 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
Selincro should be initiated only in patients who continue to have a high drinking risk level two weeks 
after initial assessment. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Selincro and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Selincro 
EMA/CHMP/805882/2012  
Page 2/2 
  
 
 
 
 
