30 May 2013 
EMA/327261/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lojuxta 
lomitapide 
On 30 May 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lojuxta, 
5mg, 10mg, 20mg hard capsules intended as an adjunct to a low fat diet and other lipid lowering 
medicinal products with or without low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis in adult patients with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Aegerion Pharmaceuticals. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Lojuxta is lomitapide, other lipid modifying agents, plain (ATC code: C10AX12) 
and is a selective inhibitor of microsomal transfer protein (MTP), an intracellular lipid-transfer protein 
responsible for binding and shuttling lipids between membranes. MTP plays a key role in the assembly 
of apo B containing lipoproteins in the liver and intestines. Inhibition of MTP reduces lipoprotein 
secretion and circulating concentrations of lipoprotein-borne lipids including cholesterol and 
triglycerides. 
The benefits with Lojuxta are its ability to consistently reduce LDL-cholesterol levels by approximately 
40% in HoFH patients. The most common side effects are gastrointestinal and hepatic adverse events, 
is some cases leading to treatment discontinuation; weight loss has also been observed.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lojuxta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Lojuxta is indicated as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering medicinal products with or 
without low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis in adult patients with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Genetic confirmation of HoFH should be obtained whenever possible. Other forms of primary 
hyperlipoproteinemia and secondary causes of hypercholesterolemia (e.g., nephrotic syndrome, 
hypothyroidism) must be excluded.” 
It is proposed that treatment with Lojuxta should be initiated and monitored by a physician 
experienced in the treatment of lipid disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Lojuxta and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
Lojuxta 
EMA/327261/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
