24 May 2012 
EMA/CHMP/311973/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kalydeco 
ivacaftor 
On 24 May 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kalydeco, 
150 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients age 6 years 
and older who have a G551D mutation in the CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator) gene. Kalydeco was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 08 July 2008. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Vertex Pharmaceuticals (U.K.) Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Kalydeco is ivacaftor, a selective CFTR modulator, which restores the function 
of a defective CFTR protein by increasing CFTR channel gating to enhance chloride transport. 
The benefits with Kalydeco are its ability to improve pulmonary function (measured as the absolute 
change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1) in patients with cystic fibrosis and G551D mutation in 
at least one allele of the CFTR gene. Other beneficial effects demonstrated in the clinical studies were 
decrease rate of pulmonary exacerbations and increase in body weight. The most common side effects 
are abdominal pain, diarrhoea, dizziness, rash, upper respiratory tract reactions (including upper 
respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, pharyngeal erythema, oropharyngeal pain, rhinitis, sinus 
congestion, and nasopharyngitis), headache and bacteria in sputum. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Kalydeco will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients age 6 years and older who 
have a G551D mutation in the CFTR gene. It is proposed that Kalydeco be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Kalydeco and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Kalydeco 
EMA/CHMP/311973/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
