25 May 2023 
EMA/CHMP/207481/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ztalmy 
ganaxolone 
On 25 May 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ztalmy2, 
intended for the treatment of epileptic seizures associated with cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) 
deficiency disorder (CDD) in children and adolescents. The applicant for this medicinal product is Marinus 
Pharmaceuticals Emerald Limited. 
Ztalmy will be available as a 50 mg/ml oral suspension. The active substance of Ztalmy is ganaxolone, an 
antiepileptic (ATC code: N03AX27). The precise mechanism of action is not known but its anticonvulsant 
effects are thought to result from a positive allosteric modulation of the GABAA receptors.  
The benefits of Ztalmy lie in its ability to reduce the frequency of the seizures associated with CDD as 
demonstrated in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study in children and adolescents. The 
most common side effects are somnolence and pyrexia. 
The full indication is: 
Ztalmy is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of epileptic seizures associated with cyclin-
dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) deficiency disorder (CDD) in patients 2 to 17 years of age. 
Ztalmy may be continued in patients 18 years of age and older.  
The treatment should be initiated and supervised by physicians with experience in the treatment of 
epilepsy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
