28 January 2021                
EMA/CHMP/52922/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
BroPair Spiromax 
salmeterol / fluticasone 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product BroPair 
Spiromax, intended for the treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and older.   
BroPair Spiromax is a duplicate of Seffalair Spiromax which was assessed simultaneously. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva B.V. 
BroPair Spiromax will be available as a powder for inhalation. Each delivered dose contains 12.75 
micrograms of salmeterol (as salmeterol xinafoate) and 100 or 202 micrograms of fluticasone propionate. 
Salmeterol is a selective long-acting inhaled beta-2 adrenoceptor agonist, and fluticasone, an inhaled 
glucocorticoid with anti-inflammatory activity in the lungs (ATC code: R03AK06). 
The benefits with BroPair Spiromax are its ability to improve pulmonary function and asthma symptoms. 
Patients should be provided with training by the prescribing healthcare professional to ensure that they 
understand how to use the inhaler correctly and that they understand the need to breathe in forcefully 
when inhaling to obtain the required dose. It is important that the patient inhales forcefully to ensure 
optimal dosing. 
The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis and headache. Paradoxical bronchospasm may occur 
with an immediate increase in wheezing and shortness of breath after dosing. If this occurs BroPair 
Spiromax should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be treated with a rapid-acting 
bronchodilator straightaway. Due to the fluticasone component, hoarseness and candidiasis (thrush) of 
the mouth and throat and, rarely, of the oesophagus, can occur in some patients. 
The full indication is: 
BroPair Spiromax is indicated in the regular treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents aged 
12 years and older not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and ‘as needed’ inhaled 
short-acting β2 agonists. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
BroPair Spiromax  
EMA/CHMP/52922/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
