EMA/CHMP/119530/2022 Rev 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Padcev 
enfortumab vedotin 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Padcev, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with urothelial cancer.2 The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Padcev will be available as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (20 mg and 30 mg). The 
active substance of Padcev is enfortumab vedotin, an antibody drug conjugate (ATC code: L01FX13) that 
induces cytotoxicity in cancer cells by binding to the nectin-4 target on the cell surface and forming an 
ADC-nectin-4 complex. With the internalization and release of the drug component, the cycle cell is 
interrupted and the cells die.  
The benefits of Padcev are its superiority in terms of overall survival and progression free survival 
compared with chemotherapy. The most common side effects are severe skin reactions, hyperglycaemia 
and peripheral neuropathy. 
The full indication is: 
Padcev as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic urothelial cancer who have previously received a platinum-containing chemotherapy 
and a programmed death receptor-1 or programmed death-ligand 1 inhibitor (see section 5.1) 
Padcev should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 The CHMP had initially adopted an opinion on 16 December 2021. During the decision-making process further safety 
information was brought to the attention of the Committee. Following a request from the European Commission, the CHMP 
readopted its opinion on 24 February 2022, taking into account the latest information. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
