1 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/237035/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Trevicta 
paliperidone 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation of the medicinal product previously 
known as Paliperidone Janssen and now to be known as Trevicta. The marketing authorisation holder for this 
medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
Trevicta will now be available as 175-mg, 263-mg, 350-mg and 525-mg prolonged-release suspensions for 
injection. All previous strengths have been withdrawn.  
Furthermore, the CHMP adopted a change to the existing indication as follows2:  
“Paliperidone JanssenTrevicta, a 3-monthly injection, is indicated for the maintenance treatment of 
schizophrenia in adult patients stabilised with paliperidone or risperidone who are clinically stable on 
1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable product. 
In selected adult patients with schizophrenia and previous responsiveness to oral paliperidone or 
risperidone, Paliperidone Janssen may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic 
symptoms are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed.” 
For information, the full indication for Trevicta will be as follows: 
“Trevicta, a 3-monthly injection, is indicated for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult 
patients who are clinically stable on 1-monthly paliperidone palmitate injectable product (see section 5.1).”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
