21 October 20010 
EMA/643392/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Potactasol 
topotecan 
On 21 October 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Potactasol, 
1 mg and 4 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure of first-line or subsequent therapy or with relapsed 
small cell lung cancer for whom re-treatment with the first-line regimen is not considered appropriate; 
and in combination with cisplatin Potactasol is intended for the treatment of patients with carcinoma of 
the cervix recurrent after radiotherapy and for patients with Stage IVB disease. Patients with prior 
exposure to cisplatin require a sustained treatment free interval to justify treatment with the 
combination. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of topotecan (as hydrochloride), is an antineoplastic and immunomodulating 
agent (L01XX17). Topotecan is a cytotoxic anti-cancer agent and acts by inhibition of the nuclear 
enzyme topoisomerase I that is involved in DNA replication. As a result, DNA damage induces 
apoptotic cell death predominantly in replicating cells such as tumour cells. 
Potactasol is a generic of Hycamtin, which has been authorised in the EU since 12 November 1996. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Potactasol. Potactasol is administrated 
intravenously and is 100% bioavailable. Therefore, a bioequivalence study versus the reference 
medicinal product was not required. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be 
found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Potactasol will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: 
“Topotecan monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
• 
• 
patients with metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure of first-line or subsequent therapy 
patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer [SCLC] for whom re-treatment with the first-line 
regimen is not considered appropriate. 
Topotecan in combination with cisplatin is indicated for patients with carcinoma of the cervix recurrent 
after radiotherapy and for patients with Stage IVB disease. Patients with prior exposure to cisplatin 
require a sustained treatment free interval to justify treatment with the combination.” 
When used in combination with cisplatin, the full prescribing information for cisplatin should be 
consulted. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Potactasol and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Potactasol  
EMA/643392/2010  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
