22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/754272/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Colobreathe 
colistimethate sodium 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Colobreathe, 1,662,500 IU, inhalation powder, hard capsule intended for the the management of 
chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 
6 years and older. Colobreathe was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 19 February 2002. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Forest Laboratories UK Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Colobreathe is colistimethate sodium, a cyclic polypeptide antibacterial agent 
belonging to the polymyxin group. Polymyxins work by damaging the cell membrane and the resulting 
physiological effects are lethal to the bacterium. 
The benefits with Colobreathe are its ability to prevent deterioration of respiratory function in CF 
patients as shown in an open-label active comparator study comparing the efficacy of colistimethate 
sodium 1,662,500 IU dry powder for inhalation to tobramycin nebuliser solution for inhalation, 300 
mg/5 mL, in 380 subjects aged 6 years and above with documented cystic fibrosis complicated by 
chronic pulmonary infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The most common side effects are 
dyspnoea, cough, dysphonia, throat irritation and dysgeusia 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Colobreathe will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: "Colobreathe is indicated for the management of chronic pulmonary 
infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 6 years and older 
(see section 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
It is proposed that Colobreathe be subject to medical prescription. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Colobreathe and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Colobreathe 
EMA/CHMP/754272/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
