102 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/74496/2020 Rev.  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion2 (initial authorisation) 
Atectura Breezhaler 
indacaterol / mometasone furoate 
On 02 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Atectura 
Breezhaler, intended for the treatment of asthma.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Atectura Breezhaler will be available as 125 µg/260 µg, 125 µg/127.5 µg and 125 µg/62.5 µg hard 
capsules containing a powder for inhalation. The active substances of Atectura Breezhaler are indacaterol 
and mometasone furoate, medicines for obstructive airway diseases (ATC code: R03AK14). Indacaterol is 
a long acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist and acts locally in the lung as a bronchodilator. Mometasone 
furoate is an inhaled corticosteroid with high affinity for glucocorticoid receptors and anti-inflammatory 
properties. 
The benefits with Atectura Breezhaler are its ability to improve pulmonary function and to provide overall 
asthma control. The most common side effects are asthma (exacerbation), nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and headache.  
The full indication is:  
Atectura Breezhaler is indicated as a maintenance treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and inhaled short 
acting beta2-agonists.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Adopted via written procedure on 02 April 2020 
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
