10 December 2020  
EMA/CHMP/639447/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yuflyma 
adalimumab 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yuflyma, 
intended for the treatment of certain inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Yuflyma will be available as 40 mg solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen. The 
active substance of Yuflyma is adalimumab, a monoclonal antibody and tumour necrosis factor alpha 
(TNFα) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AB04). Adalimumab binds to TNFα and prevents its interaction with cell-
surface TNF receptors, neutralising its biological function and modulating responses induced or regulated 
by TNF. 
Yuflyma is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Humira 
(adalimumab) which was authorised in the EU on 8 September 2003. Data show that Yuflyma has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Humira. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when 
the response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not 
previously treated with methotrexate. 
Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by 
X-ray and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate 
response to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Yuflyma can be 
given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with 
methotrexate is inappropriate (for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has 
not been studied in patients aged less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of 
age and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional 
therapy (see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without 
radiographic evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, 
who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when 
the response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as 
measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 
5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult 
patients who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and 
adolescents from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate 
candidates for topical therapy and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to 
conventional systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Yuflyma  
EMA/CHMP/639447/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult 
patients who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a 
corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in 
paediatric patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional 
therapy including primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or 
who are intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids 
and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in 
adult patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of 
corticosteroid- sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in 
patients from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to 
conventional therapy, or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
Yuflyma treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Yuflyma is indicated. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Yuflyma  
EMA/CHMP/639447/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
