20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/372183/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tecentriq 
atezolizumab 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tecentriq, 
intended for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) and locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Roche Registration Limited. 
Tecentriq will be available as a 1200 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Tecentriq is atezolizumab, an antineoplastic monoclonal antibody that potentiates T-cell response, 
including anti-tumour response, through blockade of PD-L1 binding to PD-1 ligand. 
The benefit of Tecentriq is its ability to show durable responses in first-line cisplatin-ineligible and second-
line urothelial carcinoma. In the NSCLC indication, the benefit of Tecentriq is its ability to improve survival 
compared with docetaxel in patients previously treated with chemotherapy. 
The most common side effects are fatigue, decreased appetite, nausea, dyspnoea, diarrhoea, rash, 
pyrexia, vomiting, arthralgia, asthenia and pruritus. Tecentriq is also associated with immune-related 
adverse reactions including pneumonitis, hepatitis, colitis, hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, adrenal 
insufficiency, hypophysitis, type 1 diabetes mellitus, Guillain-Barré syndrome, meningoencephalitis and 
pancreatitis. 
The full indication is: 
"Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) after prior platinum-containing chemotherapy or who are considered 
cisplatin ineligible (see section 5.1). 
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after prior chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR activating 
mutations or ALK-positive tumour mutations should also have received targeted therapy before receiving 
Tecentriq (see section 5.1)." 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
It is proposed that Tecentriq be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tecentriq  
EMA/CHMP/372183/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
