28 April 2016  
EMA/CHMP/284604/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Imbruvica 
ibrutinib 
On 28 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Imbruvica. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an existing indication as follows2:  
“Imbruvica as a single agent is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (see section 5.1). 
Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line in the presence of 17p deletion 
or TP53 mutation in patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy.” 
For information, the full indications for Imbruvica will be as follows: 
“Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell 
lymphoma (MCL). 
Imbruvica as a single agent is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously 
untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (see section 5.1). 
Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CLL who have received at least one 
prior therapy”. 
Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia 
(WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line treatment for patients 
unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
