18 November 2010 
EMA/CHMP/740477/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Iscover 
clopidogrel  
On 18 November 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Iscover. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-
Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
• 
To include the prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events, including stroke, in 
adult patients with atrial fibrillation who have at least one risk factor for vascular events and who 
cannot take vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Iscover will be as follows2: 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
Clopidogrel is indicated in: 
•  Adult patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), 
ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease. 
•  Adult patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically treated 
patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
Prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation. 
In adult patients with atrial fibrillation who have at least one risk factor for vascular events, 
are not suitable for treatment with Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) and who have a low 
bleeding risk, clopidogrel is indicated in combination with ASA for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events, including stroke. 
For further information please refer to section 5.1. 
Iscover  
EMA/CHMP/740477/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
