EMA/CHMP/414368/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hukyndra 
adalimumab 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Hukyndra, 
intended for the treatment of certain inflammatory and autoimmune disorders. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is STADA Arzneimittel AG. 
Hukyndra will be available as 40 mg solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen and 80 
mg solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe. The active substance of Hukyndra is adalimumab, a 
monoclonal antibody and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AB04). 
Adalimumab binds specifically to tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and neutralizes its biological 
function by inhibiting interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Hukyndra is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Humira 
(adalimumab), which was authorised in the EU on 8 September 2003. Data show that Hukyndra has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Humira. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is: 
Rheumatoid arthritis  
Hukyndra in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for:  
− 
− 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) including methotrexate has been 
inadequate.  
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate.  
Hukyndra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate.  
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Hukyndra in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response 
to one or more DMARD. Hukyndra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to 
methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate (for the efficacy in 
monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than 2 years.  
Enthesitis-related arthritis  
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age 
and older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy 
(see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active AS who have had an inadequate 
response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without 
radiographic evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, 
who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. Adalimumab has been shown to reduce 
the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular 
symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult 
patients who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for 
topical therapy and phototherapies. 
Hukyndra  
EMA/CHMP/414368/2021 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional 
systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Hukyndra is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy 
including primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are 
intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Hukyndra is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy 
including corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant 
to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in 
adult patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of 
corticosteroid-sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Hukyndra is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional 
therapy, or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
Hukyndra treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Hukyndra is indicated. 
Hukyndra  
EMA/CHMP/414368/2021 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Hukyndra  
EMA/CHMP/414368/2021 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
