21 May 2015 
EMA/CHMP/308417/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Simponi 
golimumab 
On 21 May 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Simponi. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen Biologics B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Axial spondyloarthritis 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-Axial SpA) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe, active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
with objective signs of inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).” 
For information, the full indications for Simponi will be as follows2: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
Simponi, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to 
disease modifying anti rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate. 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously treated 
with MTX. 
Simponi, in combination with MTX, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as 
measured by X ray and to improve physical function. 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has 
been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X ray in patients 
with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis in adults who have responded 
inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Non radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr Axial SpA) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe, active non radiographic axial 
spondyloarthritis with objective signs of inflammation as indicated by elevated C reactive 
protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Ulcerative colitis (UC) 
Simponi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine 
(6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Simponi  
EMA/CHMP/308417/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
  
