27 February 2020 
EMA/CHMP/73102/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fetcroja 
cefiderocol 
On 27 February 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fetcroja, 
intended for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms  in adults with limited 
treatment options. The applicant for this medicinal product is Shionogi B.V. 
Fetcroja will be available as a 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Fetcroja is cefiderocol, an antibacterial for systemic use (ATC code: J01DI04). It is a siderophore 
cephalosporin which acts by inhibiting the formation of the peptidoglycan, an important component of the 
bacterial cell wall. 
The benefits with Fetcroja are its ability to treat aerobic Gram-negative infections effectively. The most 
common side effects are diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea and cough. 
The full indication is: 
“Fetcroja is indicated for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in 
adults with limited treatment options (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
It is proposed that Fetcroja be prescribed only after consultation with a physician with appropriate 
experience in the management of infectious diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
