20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/688255/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Viekirax 
ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir  
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Viekirax (12.5 mg of ombitasvir, 75 mg of paritaprevir and 50 mg of ritonavir), film-coated tablets 
intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in adults in combination with other medicinal 
products. The applicant for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Viekirax are ombitasvir, an inhibitor of HCV non-structural protein NS5A, 
which is essential for the viral replication, paritaprevir, an inhibitor of the  nonstructural protein 
NS3/4A protease, also essential for the viral replication, and ritonavir, a potent cytochrome P450 3A4 
inhibitor used as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  
The benefits with Viekirax used in combination with other medicinal products is its ability to inhibit viral 
replication in infected host cells which can lead to the eradication of the virus, correlating to a cure of 
chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, in both non-cirrhotic and compensated cirrhotic patients with 
genotype 1a/1b and 4 HCV infection. The most common side effects are fatigue and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Viekirax will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Viekirax is indicated in combination with other medicinal products for the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1). 
For hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.4 and 5.1."
It is proposed that Viekirax be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of the chronic 
hepatitis C infection. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Viekirax and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Viekirax 
EMA/CHMP/688255/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
