Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
of levodopa wears off or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the therapeutic effect occur (end of 
combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, through to late stages when the effect 
treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, alone (without levodopa) or in 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pramipexole Accord, 0.088 mg, 0.18 mg, 0.35 mg, 0.7 mg and 1.1 mg, tablets intended for the 
Pramipexole Accord 
pramipexole 
21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/507521/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
receptors in the striatum. Animal studies have shown that pramipexole inhibits the dopamine 
Pramipexole Accord is a generic of Mirapexin which has been authorised in the EU since 
dopamine agonist (N04BC05) that binds with high selectivity and specificity to the D2 subfamily of 
dopamine receptors of which it has a preferential affinity to D3 receptors, and has full intrinsic activity. 
Furthermore, pramipexole alleviates Parkinsonian motor Symptoms by stimulation of dopamine 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
of moderate to severe idiopathic Restless Legs Syndrome in doses up to 0.54 mg of base (0.75 mg of 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
23 Febryary 1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pramipexole Accord, and its 
bioequivalence with Mirapexin. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found 
The approved indication is: Pramipexole Accord is indicated in adults for treatment of the signs and 
symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, alone (without levodopa) or in combination with levodopa, 
The active substance of Pramipexole Accord is pramipexole as dihydrochloride monohydrate, which is a 
dose or “on off” fluctuations). Pramipexole Accord is also indicated in adults for symptomatic treatment 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
synthesis, release, and turnover. 
salt).  
here. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
i.e. over the course of the disease, through to late stages when the effect of levodopa wears off or 
becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the therapeutic effect occur (end of dose or “on off” 
fluctuations). 
the marketing authorisation. 
granted by the European Commission. 
Restless Legs Syndrome in doses up to 0.54 mg of base (0.75 mg of salt). 
Pramipexole Accord is indicated in adults for symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe idiopathic 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers that there is a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Pramipexole Accord and therefore recommends the granting of 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Pramipexole Accord  
EMA/CHMP/507521/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
