16 February 2012 
EMA/109002/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Riluzole Zentiva 
riluzole 
On 16 February 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Riluzole 
Zentiva 50 mg film-coated tablet, intended to extend life or the time to mechanical ventilation for 
patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The applicant for this medicinal product is Aventis 
Pharma S.A. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Riluzole Zentiva is riluzole, pharmaco-therapeutic group: other nervous system 
drugs (N07XX02). Riluzole is proposed to act by inhibiting glutamate processes. The mode of action is 
unclear. 
The benefits with Riluzole Zentiva are its ability to extend survival, defined as patients who were alive, 
not intubated for mechanical ventilation and tracheotomy-free. In a trial with 155 patients randomised 
to riluzole or placebo, the median survival time was 17.7 months versus 14.9 months, respectively. 
The most common side effects are nausea, abnormal liver function tests, asthenia, diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, vomiting, headache, dizziness, oral paraesthesia, somnolence and tachycardia. 
The approved indication is: "Riluzole Zentiva is indicated to extend life or the time to mechanical 
ventilation for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
Clinical trials have demonstrated that Riluzole Zentiva extends survival for patients with ALS 
(see section 5.1). Survival was defined as patients who were alive, not intubated for mechanical 
ventilation and tracheotomy-free. 
There is no evidence that Riluzole Zentiva exerts a therapeutic effect on motor function, lung function, 
fasciculations, muscle strength and motor symptoms. Riluzole Zentiva has not been shown to be 
effective in the late stages of ALS. 
Safety and efficacy of Riluzole Zentiva has only been studied in ALS. Therefore, Riluzole Zentiva should 
not be used in patients with any other form of motor neurone disease.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Treatment with Riluzole Zentiva should only be initiated by specialist physicians with experience in the 
management of motor neurone diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted for the reference product Rilutek, 
considers there to be a favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Riluzole Zentiva and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Riluzole Zentiva 
EMA/109002/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
