European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/232607/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
APTIVUS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tipranavir 
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Aptivus.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. 
The  extension  adopted  by  the  CHMP  is  to  add  a  new  strength  and  pharmaceutical  form  (100mg/ml 
oral solution) to the existing product range.  
The new strength and pharmaceutical form will be used in a new indication.  
The new indication adopted by the CHMP is, as follows***: 
Aptivus  100mg/ml  oral  solution,  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir,  is  indicated  for 
combination antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection in highly pre-treated children from 2 to 12 
years of age with virus resistant to multiple protease inhibitors. Aptivus should only be used as 
part  of  an  active  combination  antiretroviral  regimen  in  patients  with  no  other  therapeutic 
options (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
This indication is based on the results of one phase II study investigating pharmacokinetics, safety 
and efficacy of Aptivus oral solution in mostly treatment-experienced children aged 2 to 12 years 
(see section 5.1). 
In  deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  Aptivus,  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir,  careful 
consideration  should  be  given  to  the  treatment  history  of  the  individual  patient  and  the  patterns  of 
mutations  associated  with  different  agents.  Genotypic  or  phenotypic  testing  (when  available)  and 
treatment history should guide the use of Aptivus. Initiation of treatment should take into account the 
combinations  of  mutations  which  may  negatively  impact  the  virological  response  to  Aptivus,  co-
administered with low dose ritonavir (see section 5.1). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
