23 June 2011 
EMA/CHMP/207988/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinionF
1
F (initial authorisation) 
Eurartesim 
dihydroartemisinin/piperaquine phosphate  
On 23 June 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Eurartesim, 
20 mg / 160 mg, 40 mg / 320 mg, Film-coated tablet, intended for the treatment of uncomplicated 
Plasmodium falciparum malaria in adults, children and infants 6 months and over and weighing 5 kg or 
more. Eurartesim was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 3 August 2007. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Sigma-tau Industrie Farmaceutiche Riunite S.p.A. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Eurartesim is dihydroartemisinin / piperaquine phosphate, a fixed combination 
of a known blood schizontocide and an aminoquinoline (ATC Code: P01BF05).  Dihydroartemisinin 
reaches high concentrations within the parasitized erythrocytes. Its endoperoxide bridge is thought to 
be essential for its antimalarial activity, causing free-radical damage to parasite membrane systems. 
The exact mechanism of action of piperaquine is however unknown, but it likely mirrors that of 
chloroquine, a close structural analogue.  Its bulky bisquinolone structure may be important for activity 
against chloroquine- resistant strains, and may act through the following mechanisms: inhibition of the 
transporters that efflux chloroquine from the parasite food vacuole and inhibition of haem-digestion 
pathway in the parasite food vacuole. 
The benefits with Eurartesim are its potential to be active against Plasmodium falciparum worldwide. 
As shown in the two pivotal studies conducted in Asia (including areas with multiple drug resistant 
falciparum strains) and in Africa, Eurartesim proved non-inferior to established standard-of-care 
comparator drugs. The most common side effects observed were anaemia, headache, asthenia and 
QTc prolongation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
A pharmacovigilance plan for Eurartesim will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Eurartesim is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium 
falciparum malaria in adults, children and infants 6 months and over and weighing 5 kg or more. 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antimalarial agents.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Eurartesim and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Eurartesim  
EMA/CHMP/207988/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
