21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/625361/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Thalidomide Lipomed 
thalidomide 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Thalidomide 
Lipomed, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Lipomed GmbH. 
Thalidomide Lipomed will be available as a 100 mg coated tablet. The active substance of Thalidomide 
Lipomed is thalidomide, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AX02), with immunomodulatory, anti-
inflammatory and anti-neoplastic effects. These effects of thalidomide may be associated with the 
suppression of excessive tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production, down-modulation of 
selected cell surface adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte migration and anti-angiogenic activity.  
The benefit of Thalidomide Lipomed, when used in combination with melphalan and prednisone, is its 
ability to provide a longer survival of newly diagnosed patients with multiple myeloma. 
The most common side effects associated with the use of thalidomide in combination with melphalan and 
prednisone are neutropenia, leukopenia, constipation, somnolence, paraesthesia, peripheral neuropathy, 
anaemia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, dizziness, dysaesthesia, tremor and peripheral oedema.  
Thalidomide Lipomed is a hybrid medicine2 of Thalidomide BMS (also previously known under the names 
Thalidomide Pharmion and Thalidomide Celgene) which has been authorised in the EU since 16 April 
2008. Thalidomide Lipomed contains the same active substance as Thalidomide BMS, but it is presented 
as 100mg coated tablets, instead of 50mg hard capsules. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Thalidomide Lipomed, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Thalidomide BMS.  
The full indication is: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thalidomide Lipomed in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated as first line 
treatment of patients with untreated multiple myeloma, aged ≥ 65 years or ineligible for high 
dose chemotherapy.  
Thalidomide Lipomed should be prescribed by physicians with expertise in managing 
immunomodulatory or chemotherapeutic agents and a full understanding of the risks of 
thalidomide therapy and monitoring requirements. Thalidomide Lipomed should be prescribed 
and dispensed in accordance with the Thalidomide Lipomed Pregnancy Prevention Programme. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Thalidomide Lipomed  
EMA/CHMP/625361/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
