European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/206457/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MIMPARA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): cinacalcet 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product MIMPARA. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe 
B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Reduction  of  hypercalcaemia  in  patients  with  primary  hyperparathyroidism  (HPT),  for  whom 
parathyroidectomy  would  be  indicated  on  the  basis  of  serum  calcium  levels  (as  defined  by  relevant 
treatment  guidelines),  but 
is 
contraindicated”. 
is  not  clinically  appropriate  or 
in  whom  parathyroidectomy 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for MIMPARA will be as follows***: 
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
on maintenance dialysis therapy.  
Mimpara may be used as part of a therapeutic regimen including phosphate binders and/or Vitamin D 
sterols, as appropriate (see section 5.1). 
Reduction of hypercalcaemia in patients with:  
• 
• 
parathyroid carcinoma. 
primary HPT for whom parathyroidectomy would be indicated on the basis of serum 
calcium levels (as defined by relevant treatment guidelines), but in whom 
parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is contraindicated. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8668 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
