17 February 2011 
EMA/CHMP/131489/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Brinavess 
vernakalant hydrochloride 
On 17 February 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Brinavess. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to a contraindication as follows:  
“Use of intravenous rhythm control anti-arrhythmics (class I and class III) within 4 hours prior to, as 
well as in the first 4 hours after, Brinavess administration.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full contraindications for Brinavess will be as follows2: 
• 
• 
“Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients (see section 6.1).  
Patients with severe aortic stenosis, patients with systolic blood pressure < 100 mm Hg, and 
patients with heart failure class NYHA III and NYHA IV. 
• 
Patients with prolonged QT at baseline (uncorrected > 440 msec), or severe bradycardia, sinus 
node dysfunction or second degree and third degree heart block in the absence of a 
pacemaker. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
•  Use of intravenous rhythm control anti-arrhythmics (class I and class III) within 4 hours prior 
to, as well as in the first 4 hours after, Brinavess administration. 
•  Acute coronary syndrome (including myocardial infarction) within the last 30 days.” 
Brinavess  
EMA/131489/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
