20 May 2010 
EMA/CHMP/316572/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Orencia 
abatacept 
On 20 May 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Orencia. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Pharma EEIG. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
ORENCIA in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who responded inadequately to previous therapy with one 
or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate (MTX) or a TNF-alfa 
inhibitor. 
A reduction in the progression of joint damage and improvement of physical function have been 
demonstrated during combination treatment with abatacept and methotrexate. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
ORENCIA in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in paediatric patients 6 years of age and older who have 
had an insufficient response to other DMARDs including at least one TNF inhibitor. ORENCIA has not 
been studied in children under 6 years old.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
