21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/617724/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Opdualag 
nivolumab / relatlimab 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opdualag, 
intended for the treatment of melanoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Pharma EEIG. 
Opdualag will be available as a 240 mg / 80 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substances of Opdualag are nivolumab and relatlimab, two monoclonal antibodies (ATC code: L01XY03). 
Nivolumab is a programmed death-1 inhibitor (anti-PD-1) and relatlimab is a lymphocyte-activation 
gene-3 inhibitor (anti-LAG-3). Their combined use increases T cell activation and cytokine secretion to 
inhibit tumour growth and promote tumour regression. 
The benefit of Opdualag is a 3.7-month gain in progression-free survival over nivolumab monotherapy in 
the PD-L1 < 1% group, as observed in a randomised, double-blind, multicentre pivotal study in patients 
with previously untreated metastatic or unresectable melanoma. The most common side effects are 
fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, rash, arthralgia, diarrhoea, pruritus, headache, nausea, cough, decreased 
appetite, hypothyroidism, abdominal pain, vitiligo, pyrexia, constipation, urinary tract infection, dyspnoea 
and vomiting. 
The full indication is: 
Opdualag is indicated for the first line treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older with tumour cell PD-L1 
expression < 1%. 
Treatment with Opdualag must be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Opdualag  
EMA/CHMP/617724/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
