24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/314017/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Minjuvi 
tafasitamab 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation2 for the medicinal product 
Minjuvi,3 intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma (DLBCL) who are not eligible for autologous stem-cell transplant (ASCT). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Incyte Biosciences Distribution B.V. 
Minjuvi will be available as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (200 mg). The active 
substance of Minjuvi is tafasitamab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01FX12) that targets the CD19 
antigen expressed on the surface of pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. Upon binding to CD19, tafasitamab 
mediates B-cell lysis through effector cells of the immune system, such as natural killer cells, 
gammadelta T cells and phagocytes, and direct induction of cell death (apoptosis). 
The benefits of Minjuvi are its objective response rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of complete and 
partial responders and its duration of response. The most common side effects are infections, neutropenia 
(including febrile neutropenia), thrombocytopenia, anaemia, leukopenia, hypokalaemia, decreased 
appetite dyspnoea, cough, diarrhoea, constipation, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, rash, asthenia, 
fatigue, oedema peripheral and pyrexia. 
The full indication is: 
Minjuvi is indicated in combination with lenalidomide followed by Minjuvi monotherapy for the 
treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who 
are not eligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minjuvi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Minjuvi  
EMA/CHMP/314017/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
