12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/656078/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Beovu 
brolucizumab 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Beovu, intended 
for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Beovu will be available as a 120 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Beovu is brolucizumab, 
an anti-neovascularisation agent (ATC code: S01LA06), which inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor A, 
thereby suppressing endothelial cell proliferation, reducing pathological neovascularisation and decreasing 
vascular permeability. 
The benefits with Beovu are its ability to preserve visual acuity, demonstrated over two years of treatment. 
The most common side effects are conjunctival haemorrhage and eye pain as well as intraocular 
inflammation and retinal artery occlusive events.  
It is proposed that Beovu be prescribed by physicians experienced in administering intravitreal injections for 
the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
