14 November 2019 
EMA/CHMP/596356/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mayzent 
siponimod 
On 14 November 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Mayzent, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) with active 
disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Mayzent will be available as 0.25 mg and 2 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Mayzent is 
siponimod, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA42) acting as a sphingosine 1-phosphate 
(S1P) receptor modulator. Siponimod binds selectively to two out of five receptors for S1P, namely S1P1 and 
S1P5. By acting as a functional antagonist on S1P1 receptors on lymphocytes, siponimod prevents the 
egression from lymph nodes, reducing the recirculation of T-cells into the central nervous system and 
limiting central inflammation. 
The benefits with Mayzent are its ability to reduce disability progression in active SPMS patients. The most 
common side effects are headache, hypertension and increased liver enzyme levels. 
The full indication is: “treatment of adult patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) with 
active disease evidenced by relapses or imaging features of inflammatory activity (see section 5.1)”. It is 
proposed that Mayzent be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
