27 June 2013 
EMA/377379/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lemtrada 
(Alemtuzumab) 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lemtrada 
12 mg alemtuzumab in 1.2 ml (10 mg/ml) concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the 
treatment of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Genzyme Therapeutics Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The approved indication is: "treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(RRMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features ". 
Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the cell surface glycoprotein CD52.  
The mechanism by which alemtuzumab exerts its therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not fully 
elucidated. However, research suggests immunomodulatory effects through depletion and repopulation 
of lymphocytes. 
The benefits with Lemtrada are its ability to reduce the relapse rate and slow disability progression. 
The most common side effects are infusion associated reactions (including headache, flushing, nausea, 
urticaria, rash, pruritus, pyrexia and fatigue), upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, 
lymphopenia and leukopenia.  In addition, side effects pertaining to the thyroid gland (including over-
active or under-active thyroid gland, or goitre and auto-immune conditions) were commonly observed 
in patients treated with alemtuzumab. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lemtrada will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
Treatment with Lemtrada should be initiated and supervised by a neurologist experienced in the 
treatment of patients with MS. Specialists and equipment required for the timely diagnosis and 
management of the most frequent adverse reactions, especially autoimmune conditions and infections, 
should be available.   
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
Resources for the management of hypersensitivity and/or anaphylactic reactions should be available. 
Patients treated with Lemtrada must be given the Patient Alert Card and Patient Guide and be informed 
about the risks of Lemtrada. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Lemtrada and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Lemtrada 
EMA/377379/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
