27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/364588/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tyverb 
lapatinib  
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Tyverb. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Glaxo Group Ltd.   
Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with breast cancer whose tumours overexpress 
HER2 (ErbB2) in combination with capecitabine or an aromatase inhibitor.  The CHMP has now 
recommended it for the treatment in combination with trastuzumab. 
The full indication for Tyverb will now be as follows2: 
“Tyverb is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with breast cancer, whose tumours overexpress 
HER2 (ErbB2); 
• 
• 
• 
in combination with capecitabine for patients with advanced or metastatic disease with 
progression following prior therapy, which must have included anthracyclines and taxanes and 
therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic setting (see section 5.1).  
in combination with trastuzumab for patients with hormone receptor-negative 
metastatic disease  that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies) in 
combination with chemotherapy (see Section 5.1). 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal women with hormone receptor 
positive metastatic disease, not currently intended for chemotherapy. The patients in the 
registration study were not previously treated with trastuzumab or an aromatase inhibitor (see 
section 5.1). No data are available on the efficacy of this combination relative to trastuzumab 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor in this patient population.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Tyverb 
EMA/CHMP/364588/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
