European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/567061/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
BINOCRIT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): epoetin alfa 
On  23  October  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Binocrit. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Sandoz 
GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Binocrit  can  be  used  to  increase  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  predonation 
programme.  Its  use  in  this  indication  must  be  balanced  against  the  reported  risk  of  thromboembolic 
events.  Treatment  should  only  be  given  to  patients  with  moderate  anaemia  (haemoglobin  (Hb)  10 –
 13 g/dl  [6.2 – 8.1  mmol/l],  no  iron  deficiency),  if  blood  saving  procedures  are  not  available  or 
insufficient  when  the  scheduled  major  elective  surgery  requires  a  large  volume  of  blood  (4  or  more 
units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Binocrit will be as follows***: 
Treatment of symptomatic anaemia associated with chronic renal failure (CRF) in adult and paediatric 
patients: 
- 
- 
Treatment  of  anaemia  associated  with  chronic  renal  failure  in  paediatric  and  adult  patients  on 
haemodialysis and adult patients on peritoneal dialysis (See section 4.4). 
Treatment of severe anaemia of renal origin accompanied by clinical symptoms in adult patients 
with renal insufficiency not yet undergoing dialysis (See section 4.4).  
Treatment  of  anaemia  and  reduction  of  transfusion  requirements  in  adult  patients  receiving 
chemotherapy for solid tumours, malignant lymphoma or multiple myeloma, and at risk of transfusion 
as assessed by the patient's general status (e.g. cardiovascular status, pre-existing anaemia at the start 
of chemotherapy).  
Binocrit  can  be  used  to  increase  the  yield  of  autologous  blood  from  patients  in  a  predonation 
programme.  Its  use  in  this  indication  must  be  balanced  against  the  reported  risk  of 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
thromboembolic  events.  Treatment  should  only  be  given  to  patients  with  moderate  anaemia 
(haemoglobin (Hb) 10 – 13 g/dl [6.2 – 8.1 mmol/l], no iron deficiency), if blood saving procedures 
are  not  available  or  insufficient  when  the  scheduled  major  elective  surgery  requires  a  large 
volume of blood (4 or more units of blood for females or 5 or more units for males). 
Binocrit  can  be  used  to  reduce  exposure  to  allogeneic  blood  transfusions  in  adult  non-iron  deficient 
patients  prior  to  major  elective  orthopaedic  surgery,  having  a  high  perceived  risk  for  transfusion 
complications. Use should be restricted to patients with moderate anaemia (e.g. Hb 10 - 13 g/dl) who 
do not have an autologous predonation programme available and with an expected blood loss of 900 to 
1800 ml.  
EMEA/CHMP/567061/2008  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
