10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/650408/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ogluo 
glucagon 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ogluo, 
intended for the treatment of severe hypoglycaemia in diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Xeris Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Ogluo will be available as 0.5 and 1 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Ogluo is glucagon, 
a pancreatic hormone (ATC code: H04AA01); glucagon increases blood glucose concentration by 
stimulating glycogen breakdown and release of glucose from the liver. 
The benefits with Ogluo are its ability to restore blood glucose levels in hypoglycaemic subjects. The most 
common side effects are nausea and vomiting. 
Ogluo is a hybrid medicine2 of GlucaGen/GlucaGen Hypokit; GlucaGen has been authorised in the EU 
since October 1962. Ogluo contains the same active substance as GlucaGen but is available as a ready-
to-use formulation intended for subcutaneous injection. 
The full indication is: 
Ogluo is indicated for the treatment of severe hypoglycaemia in adults, adolescents, and children 
aged 2 years and over with diabetes mellitus. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
