26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/215656/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sixmo 
buprenorphine 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sixmo, intended for the 
treatment of opioid dependence. The applicant for this medicinal product is L. Molteni & C. dei Fratelli Alitti 
Società di Esercizio S.p.A. 
Sixmo will be available as an implant (74.2 mg). The active substance of Sixmo is buprenorphine, an opioid 
partial agonist/antagonist (ATC code: N07BC01). 
The benefit with Sixmo are its ability to substitute for opioids during addiction treatment. The most common 
side effects are implant-related adverse events, headache, constipation and insomnia. 
The full indication is: “Sixmo is indicated for substitution treatment for opioid dependence in clinically stable 
adult patients who require no more than 8 mg/day of sublingual buprenorphine, within a framework of 
medical, social and psychological treatment.” It is proposed that Sixmo be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of opioid dependence. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
