28 January 2016  
EMA/CHMP/15884/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zonisamide Mylan 
zonisamide 
On 28 January 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zonisamide 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Zonisamide Mylan will be available as 25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg hard capsules.  
The active substance of Zonisamide Mylan is zonisamide, an antiepileptic (ATC code: N03AX15). 
Zonisamide acts by blocking voltage-sensitive sodium and calcium channels in the brain, thereby 
preventing the abnormal neuronal activity that leads to seizures in epilepsy patients. Furthermore, 
zonisamide has been shown to modulate the activity of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-
aminobutyric acid (GABA) and may therefore help stabilise neuronal activity. 
Zonisamide Mylan is a generic of Zonegran, which has been authorised in the European Union since 
10 March 2005. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zonisamide Mylan, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Zonegran. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Zonisamide Mylan is indicated as: 
•  monotherapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in adults 
with newly diagnosed epilepsy (see section 5.1); 
• 
adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in 
adults, adolescents, and children aged 6 years and above.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days from 
adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
