19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/547873/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fluenz Tetra  
Influenza vaccine (live attenuated, nasal) 
On 19 September 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Fluenz Tetra, 107.0 ± 0.5 fluorescent focus units (FFU) of live attenuated influenza virus reassortants of 
each of the four strains selected for the particular influenza season per 0.2 ml dose, nasal spray 
suspension, intended for prophylaxis of influenza in children and adolescents 24 months to less than 
18 years of age. The applicant for this medicinal product is MedImmune LLC. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Fluenz  Tetra,  a  quadrivalent  seasonal  influenza  vaccine  (J07BB03),  contains  cold-adapted,  live 
attenuated  influenza  viruses  that  induce  an  immune  response  (mucosal  and  circulating  antibodies) 
against the antigens (A/H3N2, A/H1N1, and B strains of the Victoria and Yamagata lineages). The type 
of influenza strains included in the vaccine will conform to the official recommendation for the season. 
The benefits with Fluenz Tetra are its ability to efficiently protect children and adolescents from 2 to 18 
years of age against seasonal influenza via intranasal administration. The most common side effects 
are nasal congestion/rhinorrea, decreased appetite, headache and malaise. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Fluenz Tetra will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Prophylaxis of influenza in children and adolescents 24 months to less 
than 18 years of age. The use of Fluenz Tetra should be based on official recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Fluenz Tetra and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
EMA/CHMP/547873/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
