19 November 2015  
EMA/CHMP/772058/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
lopinavir / ritonavir 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, intended for the treatment of HIV infection in adults, adolescents and children 
above the age of 2 years. The applicant for this medicinal product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan will be available as film-coated tablets (100 mg/25 mg and 200 mg/50 mg). 
The active substances of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan are lopinavir and ritonavir, antivirals for systemic use 
for the treatment of HIV infections (ATC code: J05AR10). Lopinavir  is an inhibitor of the viral protease 
enzyme which is key for viral replication. Ritonavir slows down the rate at which lopinavir is metabolised 
by the liver.  
Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is a generic of Kaletra, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 March 
2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Kaletra. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: "Lopinavir/ritonavir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal 
products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infected adults, adolescents and 
children above the age of 2 years. The choice of lopinavir/ritonavir to treat protease inhibitor experienced 
HIV-1 infected patients should be based on individual viral resistance testing and treatment history of 
patients". It is proposed that Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of HIV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
