13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/793918/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pluvicto 
lutetium (177Lu) vipivotide tetraxetan 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pluvicto, 
intended for the treatment of prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Limited. 
Pluvicto will be available as a 1000 MBq/ml solution for injection/infusion. The active substance of 
Pluvicto is lutetium (177Lu) vipivotide tetraxetan, a therapeutic radiopharmaceutical (ATC code: 
V10XX05), which binds to cancer cells expressing the prostate-specific membrane antigen and delivers 
therapeutic radiation to the targeted cells, causing DNA damage that can lead to their death. 
The benefits of Pluvicto are improvements in overall survival and radiographic progression free survival 
compared to best standard of care, as observed in a randomised, multicentre, open-label phase III study. 
The most common side effects are fatigue, dry mouth, nausea, anaemia, decreased appetite and 
constipation. 
The full indication is: 
Pluvicto in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with or without androgen 
receptor (AR) pathway inhibition is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive 
prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positive metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer (mCRPC) who have been treated with AR pathway inhibition and taxane based 
chemotherapy. 
Pluvicto should be administered only by persons authorised to handle radiopharmaceuticals in designated 
clinical settings (see SmPC section 6.6) and after evaluation of the patient by a qualified physician. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Pluvicto  
EMA/CHMP/793918/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
