22 March 2018 
EMA/CHMP/50933/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Prasugrel Mylan 
prasugrel 
On 22 March 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Prasugrel 
Mylan, intended to be given with acetylsalicylic acid for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
adults with acute coronary syndromes who are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Prasugrel Mylan will be available as 5- and 10-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Prasugrel 
Mylan is prasugrel, an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation (ATC code: B01AC22). Prasugrel 
acts through the irreversible binding of its active metabolite to the P2Y12 class of ADP receptors on 
platelets. Since platelets participate in the initiation and/or evolution of thrombotic complications of 
atherosclerotic disease, inhibition of platelet function can result in the reduction of the rate of 
cardiovascular events such as death, myocardial infarction, or stroke. 
Prasugrel Mylan is a generic of Efient, which has been authorised in the EU since 23 February 2009. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Prasugrel Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Efient. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Prasugrel Mylan, co administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for the prevention 
of atherothrombotic events in adult patients with acute coronary syndrome (i.e. unstable angina, 
non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [UA/NSTEMI] or ST segment elevation 
myocardial infarction [STEMI]) undergoing primary or delayed percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI). 
For further information please refer to section 5.1”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
granted by the European Commission. 
Prasugrel Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/50933/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
