24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/344109/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
PecFent 
fentanyl  
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product PecFent, 
100 µg / 100 µl ; 400 µg / 100 µl nasal spray solution intended for the management of breakthrough 
pain (BTP) in adults who are already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Archimedes Development Ltd.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of PecFent is fentanyl, a Phenylpiperidine derivative (ATC code: N02AB03) - pure 
opioid agonist, which acts primarily through interaction with µ receptors located in the brain, spinal 
cord, and smooth muscle to produce its analgesic effect. 
The benefits with PecFent are its ability to provide rapid pain relief in breakthrough cancer pain.   
The most common side effects are gastrointestinal disorders (vomiting, nausea, constipation); 
dizziness, headache and somnolence. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for PecFent will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: management of breakthrough pain (BTP) in adults who are already 
receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. Breakthrough pain is a transitory 
exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent pain. 
Patients receiving maintenance opioid therapy are those who are taking at least 60 mg of oral 
morphine daily, at least 25 micrograms of transdermal fentanyl per hour, at least 30 mg of oxycodone 
daily, at least 8 mg of oral hydromorphone daily or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for a week 
or longer. 
It is proposed that PecFent is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer pain.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for PecFent and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
PecFent  
EMA/CHMP/344109/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
