21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/417185/2012 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zoledronic acid Mylan 
Zoledronic acid 
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zoledronic 
acid Mylan 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the prevention of skeletal 
related events (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or surgery to bone, or tumour-
induced hypercalcaemia) in adult patients with advanced malignancies involving bone, and for the 
treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH).  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
 They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zoledronic acid Mylan is zoledronic acid (as monohydrate), a bisphosphonate 
(M05BA08). Zoledronic acid stops the action of the osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved 
in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads to less bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to 
make bones less likely to break, which is useful in preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone 
metastases. Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the 
bones. By preventing the breakdown of bones, zoledronic acid also helps to reduce the amount of 
calcium released into the blood. 
Zoledronic acid Mylan is a generic of Zometa, which has been authorised in the EU since  
20 March 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zoledronic acid Mylan. This 
product is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable; therefore, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Zometa was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zoledronic acid Mylan will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                
The approved indications are:  
• 
• 
“Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or 
surgery to bone, or tumour-induced hypercalcaemia) in adult patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone. 
The treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH)”.  
Zoledronic acid Mylan must only be prescribed and administered to patients by healthcare 
professionals experienced in the administration of intravenous biphosphonates.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zoledronic acid Mylan and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Zoledronic acid Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/417185/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
