19 November 2015 
EMA/CHMP/721224/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Eptifibatide Accord 
eptifibatide 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Eptifibatide 
Accord, intended for the prevention of early myocardial infarction in adults presenting with unstable 
angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare 
Limited. 
Eptifibatide Accord will be available as a 0.75 mg/ml solution for infusion and a 2 mg/ml solution for 
injection. The active substance of Eptifibatide Accord is eptifibatide, an antithrombotic agent (ATC code: 
B01AC16). It stops the platelets aggregating by blocking a protein called glycoprotein IIb/III on their 
surface. Eptifibatide Accord reduces the risk of a blood clot forming and helps prevent another heart 
attack. 
Eptifibatide Accord is a generic of Integrilin, which has been authorised in the EU since 1 July 1991. As 
Eptifibatide Accord is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus 
the reference product Integrilin was not required. 
The full indication is:  
“Eptifibatide Accord is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin.” 
Eptifibatide Accord is indicated for the prevention of early myocardial infarction in adults presenting with 
unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, with the last episode of chest pain occurring within 
24 hours and with electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. 
Patients most likely to benefit from Eptifibatide Accord treatment are those at high risk of developing 
myocardial infarction within the first 3-4 days after onset of acute angina symptoms including for instance 
those that are likely to undergo an early PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty) (see 
section 5.1).” 
Eptifibatide Accord should be administered by specialist physicians experienced in the management of 
acute coronary syndromes. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days from 
adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Eptifibatide Accord  
EMA/CHMP/721224/2015 
Page 2/2 
  
  
