26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/481798/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hulio 
adalimumab 
On  26  July  2018,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Hulio, 
intended  for  the  treatment  of  certain  inflammatory  and  autoimmune  disorders  (full  list  below).  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Hulio will be available as a 40-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Hulio is adalimumab, a 
monoclonal  antibody  and  tumour  necrosis  factor  alpha  (TNFα)  inhibitor  (ATC  code:  L04AB04). 
Adalimumab  binds  to  TNF  and  neutralises  its  biological  function  by  blocking  its  interaction  with  the  p55 
and p75 cell-surface TNF receptors. Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or 
regulated  by  TNFα,  including  changes  in  the  levels  of  adhesion  molecules  responsible  for  leucocyte 
migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1). 
Hulio is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Humira (adalimumab), 
which  was  authorised  in  the  EU  on  8  September  2003.  Data  show  that  Hulio  has  comparable  quality, 
safety and efficacy to Humira. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Hulio in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe,  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the 
response  to  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  including  methotrexate  has  been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate. 
Hulio  can  be  given  as  monotherapy  in  case  of  intolerance  to  methotrexate  or  when  continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by 
X-ray and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Hulio  in  combination  with  methotrexate  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  active  polyarticular 
juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis,  in  patients  from  the  age  of  2  years  who  have  had  an  inadequate 
response  to  one  or  more  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  (DMARDs).  Hulio  can  be  given 
as  monotherapy  in  case  of  intolerance  to  methotrexate  or  when  continued  treatment  with 
methotrexate is inappropriate (for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has 
not been studied in patients aged less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age 
and  older,  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  to,  or  who  are  intolerant  of,  conventional 
therapy (see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have 
had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Hulio  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adults  with  severe  axial  spondyloarthritis  without 
radiographic  evidence  of  AS  but  with  objective  signs  of  inflammation  by  elevated  CRP  and  /  or 
MRI, who have had an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response  to  previous  disease-modifying  anti-rheumatic  drug  therapy  has  been  inadequate. 
Adalimumab  has  been  shown  to  reduce  the  rate  of  progression  of  peripheral  joint  damage  as 
measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see Section 
5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Hulio  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  chronic  plaque  psoriasis  in  adult 
patients who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for 
topical therapy and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Hulio  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  active  moderate  to  severe  hidradenitis  suppurativa  (acne 
inversa)  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12  years  of  age  with  an  inadequate  response  to 
conventional systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Hulio  
EMA/CHMP/481798/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
  
  
Crohn’s disease 
Hulio is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients 
who  have  not  responded  despite  a  full  and  adequate  course  of  therapy  with  a  corticosteroid 
and/or  an  immunosuppressant;  or  who  are  intolerant  to  or  have  medical  contraindications  for 
such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients  (from  6  years  of  age)  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  to  conventional  therapy 
including primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are 
intolerant to or have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Hulio is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  to  conventional  therapy  including  corticosteroids  and  6-
mercaptopurine  (6-MP)  or  azathioprine  (AZA),  or  who  are  intolerant  to  or  have  medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Hulio  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  non-infectious  intermediate,  posterior  and  panuveitis  in 
adult  patients  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  to  corticosteroids,  in  patients  in  need  of 
corticosteroid sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric Uveitis  
Hulio is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from  2  years  of  age  who  have  had  an  inadequate  response  to  or  are  intolerant  to  conventional 
therapy, or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate.” 
Hulio  treatment  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  specialist  physicians  experienced  in  the  diagnosis 
and treatment of conditions for which Hulio is indicated. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  European  public  assessment  report  (EPAR)  and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Hulio  
EMA/CHMP/481798/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
  
  
