16 September 2021  
EMA/CHMP/508328/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Adempas 
riociguat 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Adempas. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bayer AG. 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
Concomitant use with other soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators. 
For information, the full contraindications for Adempas will be as follows:2 
•  Co-administration with PDE5 inhibitors (such as sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil) (see sections 4.2 
and 4.5). 
•  Severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C). 
•  Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
• 
•  Co-administration with nitrates or nitric oxide donors (such as amyl nitrite) in any form including 
Pregnancy (see sections  4.4; 4.5 and 4.6). 
recreational drugs called ‘poppers’ (see section 4.5). 
•  Concomitant use with other soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators. 
• 
Patients with systolic blood pressure < 95 mm Hg at treatment initiation. 
• 
Patients with pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic interstitial pneumonias (PH-IIP) (see 
section 5.1) 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
