17 October 2019 
EMA/546072/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Evenity 
romosozumab 
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion following a re-examination procedure, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for 
the medicinal product Evenity, intended for the treatment of severe postmenopausal osteoporosis. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is UCB Pharma S.A. 
Evenity will be available as a solution for injection (105 mg). The active substance of Evenity is 
romosozumab, a treatment for metabolic bone diseases affecting bone structure and mineralisation (ATC 
code: M05BX06). It works by inhibiting the action of sclerostin, a signalling protein in bone metabolism, 
thereby increasing bone formation and decreasing bone resorption.  
The benefits with Evenity are its ability to decrease the number of osteoporotic fractures, including vertebral 
and non-vertebral fractures, in postmenopausal women with severe osteoporosis and at high risk of 
fractures. The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis and arthralgia; serious cardiovascular events 
are an important identified risk. 
The full indication is: “Treatment of severe osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk of fracture 
(see section 5.1)”. It is proposed that Evenity treatment be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians 
experienced in the treatment of osteoporosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
