European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/456015/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
IRBESARTAN TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): irbesartan 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Irbesartan Teva, 
75 mg,  150 mg  and  300  mg,  film-coated  tablets  intended  for:  “Treatment  of  essential  hypertension. 
Treatment  of  renal  disease  in  patients  with  hypertension  and  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  as  part  of  an 
antihypertensive drug regimen”. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Irbesartan  Teva  is  irbesartan,  an  angiotensin  II  antagonist,  plain,  medicinal 
product (C09CA04) acting as a selective angiotensin-II receptor (type AT1) antagonist. 
Irbesartan Teva is a generic of Aprovel which has been authorised in the EU since 27 August 1997. 
Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Irbesartan  Teva,  and  its  bioequivalence  with 
Aprovel. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is:  
“Treatment  of  essential  hypertension.  Treatment  of  renal  disease  in  patients  with  hypertension  and 
type 2 diabetes mellitus as part of an antihypertensive drug regimen”.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Irbesartan Teva, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as 
part of the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk  balance for Irbesartan Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
