30 March 2023 
EMA/CHMP/126756/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lacosamide Adroiq 
lacosamide 
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lacosamide 
Adroiq, intended for the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients with epilepsy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Extrovis EU Ltd. 
Lacosamide Adroiq will be available as a 10 mg/ml solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Lacosamide Adroiq is lacosamide, an antiepileptic (ATC code: N03AX18) which selectively enhances slow 
inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels, resulting in stabilisation of hyper-excitable neuronal 
membranes.  
Lacosamide Adroiq is a generic of Vimpat, which has been authorised in the EU since 29 August 2008. 
Since Lacosamide Adroiq is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Vimpat was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Lacosamide Adroiq is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age with 
epilepsy. 
Lacosamide Adroiq is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
• 
• 
in the treatment of partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
adolescents and children from 2 years of age with epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults, adolescents and 
children from 4 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lacosamide Adroiq  
EMA/CHMP/126756/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
