16 September 2021                 
EMA/CHMP/2165/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Nucala 
Mepolizumab 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Nucala. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services 
Limited. 
The CHMP adopted three new indications2. For information, the full indications for Nucala will be as 
follows: 
Severe eosinophilic asthma 
Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for severe refractory eosinophilic asthma in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 6 years and older. 
Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA)  
Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for patients aged 6 years and older with 
relapsing-remitting or refractory eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). 
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) 
Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for adult patients with inadequately 
controlled hypereosinophilic syndrome without an identifiable non-haematologic 
secondary cause. 
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps  
Nucala is indicated as an add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids for the 
treatment of adult patients with severe CRSwNP for whom therapy with systemic 
corticosteroids and/or surgery do not provide adequate disease control. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 : New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Nucala  
EMA/CHMP/2165/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
