20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/431293/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
RoActemra 
tocilizumab 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
RoActemra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult patients.” 
For information, the full indication(s) for RoActemra will be as follows:2 
“RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for: 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not previously 
treated with MTX.  
the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have either responded 
inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. 
In these patients, RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
RoActemra has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and 
to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in patients 
2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with NSAIDs and 
systemic corticosteroids. RoActemra can be given as monotherapy (in case of intolerance to MTX or 
where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
RoActemra in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile idiopathic 
polyarthritis (pJIA; rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in patients 2 years 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with MTX. RoActemra can be 
given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is 
inappropriate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) in adult patients.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
RoActemra  
EMA/CHMP/431293/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
