21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/585446/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tarceva 
erlotinib 
On 21 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Tarceva. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration 
Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Tarceva is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-
small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR activating mutations”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Tarceva will be as follows2: 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
Tarceva is indicated for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR activating mutations. 
Tarceva is also indicated as monotherapy for maintenance treatment in patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic NSCLC with stable disease after 4 cycles of standard platinum-based first-line 
chemotherapy. 
Tarceva is also indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after 
failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account. 
No survival benefit or other clinically relevant effects of the treatment have been demonstrated in 
patients with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-IHC negative tumours (see section 5.1). 
Pancreatic cancer: 
Tarceva in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic 
pancreatic cancer. 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
No survival advantage could be shown for patients with locally advanced disease. 
Tarceva  
EMA/CHMP/585446/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
