EMA/CHMP/244588/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Icatibant Accord 
icatibant 
On 20 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Icatibant 
Accord, intended for the treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Icatibant Accord will be available as a 30 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Icatibant Accord 
is icatibant as acetate, which belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic group of hematological agents used to 
treat hereditary angioedema (ATC code: B06AC02). Icatibant antagonizes the vasodilatory effect of excess 
bradykinin and blocks oedema formation. 
Icatibant Accord is a generic of Firazyr, which has been authorised in the EU since 11 July 2008. A 
question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Icatibant Accord is indicated for symptomatic treatment of acute attacks of hereditary 
angioedema in adults, adolescents and children aged 2 years and older, with 
C1-esterase-inhibitor deficiency. 
Icatibant Accord should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of hereditary 
angioedema. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
