10 November 2022 
EMA/CHMP/863898/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kauliv 
teriparatide 
On 10 November 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kauliv, 
intended for the treatment of osteoporosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Strides Pharma 
Cyprus. 
Kauliv will be available as a 20 µg/80 µl solution for injection. The active substance of Kauliv is 
teriparatide, the active aminoterminal fragment of human parathyroid hormone (ATC code: H05AA02). 
Teriparatide acts on the parathyroid hormone receptor with the same affinity as human parathyroid 
hormone and by binding to this receptor exerts the same effects on bone metabolism. 
Kauliv is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Forsteo. Data show 
that Kauliv has comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Forsteo. More information on biosimilar 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Kauliv is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture 
(see section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of 
vertebral and non-vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women 
and men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
