22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/333095/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fotivda 
tivozanib hydrochloride monohydrate 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fotivda, 
intended for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
EUSA Pharma. 
Fotivda will be available as 890 µg and 1340 µg hard capsules. The active substance of Fotivda is 
tivozanib hydrochloride monohydrate, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE34) which, by blocking 
vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFR), inhibits angiogenesis leading to inhibition of tumour 
growth. 
The benefits with Fotivda are its ability to improve progression-free survival in patients with advanced 
disease. The most common side effects are hypertension, dysphonia, fatigue and diarrhoea.  
The full indication is: "first line treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and 
for adult patients who are VEGFR and mTOR pathway inhibitor-naïve following disease progression after 
one prior treatment with cytokine therapy for advanced RCC." 
It is proposed that Fotivda be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
