22 June 2017  
EMA/CHMP/386334/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Stivarga 
regorafenib 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Stivarga. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Stivarga is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC) who have been previously treated with sorafenib." 
For information, the full indications for Stivarga will be as follows:2 
"Stivarga is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with 
•  metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have been previously treated with, or are not considered 
candidates for, available therapies. These include fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy, an 
anti-VEGF therapy and an anti-EGFR therapy (see section  5.1) . 
•  unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) who progressed on or are 
intolerant to prior treatment with imatinib and sunitinib. 
•  hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have been previously treated with sorafenib." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
