22 July 2010 
EMA/CHMP/442453/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Clopidogrel HCS  
Clopidogrel 
On 22 July 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Clopidogrel 
HCS 75mg film-coated tablets intended for use in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  The applicant 
for this medicinal product is HCS bvba.  They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Clopidogrel HCS is clopidogrel, a platelet aggregation inhibitor excl. heparin 
medicinal product (B01AC04). Clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of ADP to its platelet receptor, 
and the subsequent ADP-mediated activation of the GPIIb/IIIa complex, thereby inhibiting platelet 
aggregation. Biotransformation of clopidogrel is necessary to produce inhibition of platelet aggregation. 
Clopidogrel HCS is a generic of Plavix, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 July 1998. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Clopidogrel HCS, and its bioequivalence with the 
reference product Plavix. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Clopidogrel HCS will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: 
 “In adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
• 
Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease. 
• 
Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
−  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous 
coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
−  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically treated 
patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Clopidogrel HCS and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
EMA/CHMP/442453/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
