23 October 2014 
EMA/CHMP/632090/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lynparza 
olaparib 
On 23 October 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lynparza, 
50 mg hard capsules, intended for treatment of ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancers 
in women with BRCA mutations. Lynparza was designated an orphan medicinal product on 6 December 
2007. The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. They may request a re-examination 
of the CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Lynparza is olaparib, an inhibitor of human poly (ADP ribose) polymerase 
enzymes (PARP-1, PARP-2, and PARP-3) required for the efficient repair of DNA single strand breaks. 
In normal cells, DNA single strand breaks can also be repaired by a process known as homologous 
recombination repair (HRR), which requires functional BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. However, in cancer 
cells without functional BRCA1 or BRCA2, single strand breaks cannot be repaired via HRR, making the 
cancer cells vulnerable to the inhibition of PARP by olaparib. 
The main benefit of treatment with Lynparza is the improvement in progression-free survival among 
patients with platinum-sensitive, relapsed, high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube and 
primary peritoneal cancers with BRCA mutations. The most common side effects are nausea, vomiting, 
diarrhoea, dyspepsia, fatigue, headache, dysgeusia, decreased appetite, dizziness, anaemia, 
neutropenia, lymphopenia, corpuscular volume elevation, and increase in creatinine.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lynparza will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
platinum-sensitive relapsed BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high grade serous epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete response or partial 
response) to platinum-based chemotherapy".  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
It is proposed that Lynparza be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Lynparza and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Lynparza  
EMA/CHMP/632090/2014  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
