21 April 2017  
EMA/CHMP/253159/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ucedane 
carglumic acid 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ucedane, 
intended for the treatment of hyperammonaemia due to N-acetylglutamate synthase primary deficiency. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Lucane Pharma. 
Ucedane will be available as 200-mg dispersible tablets. The active substance of Ucedane is carglumic 
acid, an amino acid derivative (ATC code: A16AA05). It is a structural analogue of N-acetylglutamate and 
can replace it in patients who cannot synthesise the compound properly due to a deficiency in the enzyme 
responsible for its synthesis (N-acetylglutamate synthase). 
Ucedane is a generic of Carbaglu, which has been authorised in the EU since 24 January 2003. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ucedane, and its bioequivalence to the reference product 
Carbaglu. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Treatment of hyperammonaemia due to N-acetylglutamate synthase primary deficiency." 
It is proposed that Ucedane be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of metabolic 
disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
