European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/97213/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF OPINION∗ 
for  
PRIVIGEN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): human normal immunoglobulin (IVIg) 
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,∗∗  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Privigen 100 mg/ml, solution for infusion, intended for  
Replacement Therapy in 
Primary Immunodeficiency Syndromes such as: 
− 
− 
− 
−  Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections. 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections. 
Immunomodulation 
− 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of bleeding or 
prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
Guillain Barré syndrome  
Kawasaki disease 
− 
− 
Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation 
The applicant for this medicinal product is CSL Behring GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Privigen  is  Human  normal  immunoglobulin  (IVIg),  an  immune  sera  and 
immunoglobulin medicinal product.   
ATC code: J06BA02.  
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly functionally intact immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a 
broad spectrum of antibodies against infectious agents. 
Human  normal  immunoglobulin  contains  the  IgG  antibodies  present  in  the  normal  population.  It  is 
usually  prepared  from  pooled  plasma  from  not  fewer  than  1000  donations.  It  has  a  distribution  of 
immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native human plasma. Adequate doses of 
human normal immunoglobulin may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin G levels to the normal 
range. 
The  mechanism  of  action  in  indications  other  than  replacement  therapy  is  not  fully  elucidated,  but 
includes immunomodulatory effects. 
∗  
∗∗  
Summaries of opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued 
within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The clinical studies with Privigen have shown comparable results to that reported in literature and are 
consistent with acceptable efficacy of the product in these indications. The most common side effects 
are  chills,  headache,  fever,  vomiting,  allergic  reactions,  nausea,  arthralgia,  low  blood  pressure  and 
moderate low back pain.   
A pharmacovigilance plan for Privigen, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Privigen  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/97213/2008 
Page 2/2 
 
 
