14 November 2019 
EMA/C HMP/569229/2019   
C ommittee for Medicinal  Products for Human  Use (C HMP) 
Summary of opinion1  (initial authorisation) 
Sunosi 
solriamfetol 
On 14 November 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sunosi, intended 
for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in narcolepsy and obstructive sleep apnoea. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Sunosi will be available as 75 mg and 150 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Sunosi is 
solriamfetol, a psychoanaleptic (ATC code: N06BA14) which is a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake 
inhibitor. 
The benefits with Sunosi are its ability to improve patients’ wakefulness and to reduce their daytime 
sleepiness. The most common side effects are headache and nausea. 
The full indication is: 
“Sunosi is indicated to improve wakefulness and reduce excessive daytime sleepiness in adult patients with 
narcolepsy (with or without cataplexy). 
Sunosi is indicated to improve wakefulness and reduce excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) in adult patients 
with obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) whose EDS has not been satisfactorily treated by primary OSA therapy, 
such  as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP).”  
It is proposed that Sunosi be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of sleep disorders . 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without pre judice to the C ommission de cision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from  adoption of the opinion 
Of f icial address  D omenic o Scarlattilaan 6   ●  1 0 83 H S A msterdam  ●  T he N etherlands 
A ddress f or visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how- to- find- us  
Send us a question  G o to www.ema.europa.eu/c ontac t   Telephone +3 1  (0 )8 8  7 81 6 000 
An agency  of  the European  Union    
© E uropean M edic ines  A genc y, 2 0 1 9 . Reproduc tion is  authoris ed provided the s ourc e is  ac knowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                 
