23 July 2020 
EMA/CHMP/257409/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Arikayce liposomal 
amikacin 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Arikayce liposomal,2 
intended for the treatment of non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung infections caused by 
Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) in adults with limited treatment options who do not have cystic 
fibrosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Insmed Netherlands B.V. 
Arikayce liposomal will be available as a 590-mg nebuliser dispersion3. The active substance of Arikayce 
liposomal is amikacin, a well-established aminoglycoside antibacterial (ATC code: J01GB06), the mode of 
action of which is disruption of production of vital bacterial proteins. 
The benefits with Arikayce liposomal are its ability to treat the above-mentioned infections effectively. The 
most common side effects are nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity and effects on neuromuscular conditions that may 
be due to chronic exposure to amikacin. 
The full indication is:  
Arikayce liposomal is indicated for the treatment of non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung 
infections caused by Mycobacterium avium Complex (MAC) in adults with limited treatment options 
who do not have cystic fibrosis (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
3 Correction from suspension to dispersion. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
