25 February 2021
EMA/CHMP/86405/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Orladeyo
berotralstat
On 25 February 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Orladeyo2, 
intended for the prevention of recurrent attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE).
The applicant for this medicinal product is BioCryst Ireland Limited.
Orladeyo will be available as 150-mg hard capsules. The active substance of Orladeyo is berotralstat, an 
inhibitor of plasma kallikrein (ATC code: B06AC) which acts by reducing the release of bradykinin, a 
potent vasodilator involved in HAE attacks.
The benefit of Orladeyo is its ability to significantly reduce the hereditary angioedema attack rate. In 
patients receiving Orladeyo 150 mg orally, HAE attacks were 44% less frequent than with placebo. The 
most common adverse reactions are headache, abdominal pain and diarrhoea.
The full indication is: 
Orladeyo is indicated for routine prevention of recurrent attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE) 
in adult and adolescent patients aged 12 years and older.
Orladeyo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of hereditary angioedema.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
2 This product was designated an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
