21 March 2013 
EMA/CHMP/157191/2013 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Memantine ratiopharm 
memantine 
On  21  March  2013  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Memantine 
ratiopharm, 5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of patients 
with  moderate  to  severe  Alzheimer’s  disease.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Ratiopharm 
GmbH.  They  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Memantine  ratiopharm  is  memantine  hydrochloride,  a  psychoanaleptic  anti-
dementia  drug  (N06DX01).  Memantine  is  a  voltage-dependent,  moderate-affinity  non-competitive  
N-methyl-D-aspartate  (NMDA)  receptor  antagonist,  modulating  the  effects  of  pathologically  elevated 
tonic levels of glutamate that may lead to neuronal dysfunction. 
Memantine ratiopharm is a generic of Ebixa, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 May 2002. 
Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Memantine  ratiopharm,  and  its  bioequivalence 
with the reference product Ebixa. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Memantine  ratiopharm  will  be  implemented  as  part  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease”. It is 
proposed  that  Memantine  ratiopharm  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
Alzheimer’s dementia. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 85 45 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Memantine ratiopharm and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Memantine ratiopharm  
EMA/CHMP/157191/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
