10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/650983/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto 
lenalidomide 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lenalidomide 
Krka d.d. Novo mesto, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndromes, 
mantle cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is Krka d.d. Novo 
mesto. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto will be available as hard capsules (2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 
mg, 20 mg and 25 mg). The active substance of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is lenalidomide, an 
immunomodulating agent (ATC code: L04AX04) that works in a number of different ways including 
through cytokine modulation, induction of T-cell proliferation, anti-proliferation of multiple myeloma cells 
and inhibition of angiogenesis. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto is a generic of Revlimid, which has been authorised in the EU since 
14 June 2007. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto, 
and its bioequivalence to the reference product Revlimid. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Multiple myeloma 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment 
of adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem 
cell transplantation. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto as combination therapy with dexamethasone, or bortezomib 
and dexamethasone, or melphalan and prednisone (see section 4.2) is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. 
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes associated with an isolated deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality when other 
therapeutic options are insufficient or inadequate. 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Follicular lymphoma 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto in combination with rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody) is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously treated follicular lymphoma (Grade 1 
– 3a). 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of cancer 
therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lenalidomide Krka d.d. Novo mesto  
EMA/CHMP/650983/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
