21 April 2017 
EMA/CHMP/244798/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Skilarence 
dimethyl fumarate 
On the 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Skilarence, 
intended for the treatment of psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Almirall S.A. 
Skilarence will be available as 30-mg and 120-mg gastro-resistant tablets. The active substance of 
Skilarence is dimethyl fumarate. The benefits in psoriasis are believed to be mediated mainly by the anti-
inflammatory and immunomodulating effects of dimethyl fumarate and its metabolite monomethyl 
fumarate. These effects are thought to be mainly mediated by an interaction with intracellular reduced 
glutathione, which helps to regulate the altered transcriptional activity of the nuclear factor 
kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B-cells (NF-κB). 
The benefits with Skilarence are its ability to improve the signs and symptoms of psoriasis. The most 
common side effects are gastrointestinal events, flushing and lymphopenia. 
The full indication is: "Skilarence is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in 
adults in need of systemic medicinal therapy". It is proposed that Skilarence be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of psoriasis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
