15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/706420/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lyxumia 
lixisenatide 
On 15 November 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lyxumia, 10 µg, 20 µg and 10 µg/20 µg, solution for injection, intended for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes. The applicant for this medicinal product is sanofi-aventis groupe. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Lyxumia is lixisenatide, a Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analogue medicinal 
product. Like native GLP-1, lixisenatide stimulates insulin release from the pancreatic islets, suppresses 
glucagon secretion, delays gastric emptying, and reduces body weight.  
The main benefit of Lyxumia is its ability to improve glucose metabolism when added to an existing 
oral antidiabetic therapy and/or insulin as advised in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC). 
An additional benefit is the associated loss in body weight in most combinations. 
The most common side effects are nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. In addition, hypoglycaemia (when 
Lyxumia was used in combination with a sulphonylurea and/or a basal insulin) and headache occurred 
commonly. Allergic reactions have been reported in 0.4% of Lyxumia patients.  
Specific safety issues regarding the potential risks of medullary thyroid cancer, pancreatitis, malignant 
neoplasms, a propensity to induce a transient increased heart rate, and malformations observed in 
animal development studies have been evaluated and are addressed in the SmPC and/or in the Risk 
Management Plan. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lyxumia will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic 
control in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products and/or basal insulin when these, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
together with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 
for available data on the different combinations)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Lyxumia and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Lyxumia  
EMA/CHMP/706420/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
