22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/213654/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jayempi 
azathioprine 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Jayempi, 
intended for prophylaxis against transplant rejection and as immunosuppressive antimetabolite either 
alone or in combination with other agents to influence the immune response in a variety of diseases. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited. 
Jayempi will be available as 10 mg/ml oral suspension. The active substance of Jayempi is azathioprine, 
an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AX01). Azathioprine is an inactive pro-drug of 6-mercaptopurine 
(6-MP), which acts as a purine antagonist. 
Jayempi is a hybrid medicine2 of Imurek 50mg film coated tablets which has been authorised in the EU 
since 30 November 2004. Jayempi contains the same active substance as Imurek but is presented as an 
oral suspension.  
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Jayempi.  Jayempi did not show bioequivalence to 
the reference product Imurek but considering the high inter and intra-subject variability the result from 
the bioequivalence study was not expected to indicate any real difference with the tablet formulation in 
clinical practice. This was also acceptable since Jayempi and Imurek are different formulations and no 
strict bioequivalence was required. 
The full indication is: 
Jayempi is indicated in combination with other immunosuppressive agents for the prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogenic kidney, liver, heart, lung or pancreas 
transplants. Azathioprine is indicated in immunosuppressive regimens as an adjunct to 
immunosuppressive agents that form the mainstay of treatment (basis immunosuppression). 
Jayempi is used as an immunosuppressant antimetabolite either alone or, more commonly, in 
combination with other agents (usually corticosteroids) and/ or procedures which influence the 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immune response. Jayempi is indicated in patients who are intolerant to glucocorticosteroids or if 
the therapeutic response is inadequate despite treatment with high doses of glucocorticosteroids, 
in the following diseases: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (chronic polyarthritis) that cannot be kept under control 
by less toxic agents (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic -medicinal products – DMARDs) 
auto-immune hepatitis 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
dermatomyositis 
polyarteritis nodosa 
pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid 
Behçet’s disease 
refractory auto-immune haemolytic anaemia, caused by warm IgG antibodies 
chronic refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Jayempi is used for the treatment of moderately severe to severe forms of chronic inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBD) (Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis) in patients in whom glucocorticosteroid 
therapy is necessary, but where glucocorticosteroids are not tolerated, or in whom the disease is 
untreatable with other common means of first choice. 
It is also indicated in adult patients in relapsing multiple sclerosis, if an immunomodulatory 
therapy is indicated but beta interferon therapy is not possible, or a stable course has been 
achieved with previous treatment with azathioprine. 
Jayempi is indicated for the treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis. Depending on the 
severity of the disease, Jayempi should be given in combination with glucocorticosteroids because 
of slow onset of action at the beginning of treatment and the glucocorticosteroid dose should be 
gradually reduced after several months of treatment. 
Therapy with Jayempi should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration and 
monitoring of immunosuppressive medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Jayempi  
EMA/CHMP/213654/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
