20 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/486900/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ameluz 
5-aminolevulinic acid  
On 20 October 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ameluz, 
78  mg/g gel intended for the treatment of actinic keratosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Biofrontera Bioscience GmbH.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ameluz is 5-aminolevulinic acid hydrochloride, a sensitizer used in 
photodynamic/radiation therapy (L01XD04) that causes damage of cellular components and eventually 
destroys the target cells.  
The benefits with Ameluz are its ability to improve the complete response rate of actinic keratosis 
lesions. The most common side effects are irritation, erythema, pain, pruritus, oedema, exfoliation, 
scab and induration at application site. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ameluz will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment of actinic keratosis of mild to moderate intensity on the face 
and scalp (Olsen grade 1 to 2; see section 5.1)’’. 
It is proposed that Ameluz is administered under the supervison of a physician, a nurse or other 
healthcare professionals experienced in the use of photodynamic therapy. Detailed recommendations 
for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC), which 
will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and will be available in all official 
European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European 
Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ameluz and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Ameluz  
EMA/CHMP/486900/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
