1 April 2016  
EMA/CHMP/160482/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Strimvelis 
autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced 
with retroviral vector that encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Strimvelis, intended 
for the treatment of severe combined immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-
SCID).  
Strimvelis was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 August 2005. As Strimvelis is an 
advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an assessment by the 
Committee for Advanced Therapies. The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading 
Services. 
Strimvelis will be available as dispersion for infusion (1-10 million cells/ml). The active substance of 
Strimvelis is autologous CD34+ enriched cell fraction that contains CD34+ cells transduced with a 
retroviral vector that encodes for the human ADA cDNA sequence. After infusion, CD34+ cells engraft in 
the bone marrow where they repopulate the haematopoetic system with cells, a proportion of which 
expresses the pharmacologically active levels of the ADA enzyme. Following engraftment in the patient, 
the effects of the product are expected to be life-long. Patients are expected to be enrolled in a post-
treatment registry and will be followed-up long term. 
In a pivotal clinical study in patients treated with Strimvelis the survival rate was 100%, with an average 
follow-up period of 7 years. ADA-SCID is usually fatal in the first 1-2 years of life if left untreated. There 
was also evidence of immune reconstitution with an increase in CD3+ T cells as well as T cell subsets and 
some evidence of thymopoiesis as well as of peripheral T cell function. The most common side effects are 
pyrexia, increased hepatic enzyme levels, autoimmune reactions, such as anaemia, neutropenia, and 
autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, aplastic anaemia and thrombocytopenia. 
The full indication is: "Strimvelis is indicated for the treatment of patients with severe combined 
immunodeficiency due to adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID), for whom no suitable human 
leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related stem cell donor is available". It is proposed that Strimvelis be 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
administered in a specialist transplant centre, by a physician with previous experience in the treatment 
and management of patients with ADA-SCID and in the use of autologous CD34+ ex vivo gene therapy 
products.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Strimvelis  
EMA/CHMP/160482/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
