19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/564958/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Invokana 
canagliflozin 
On 19 September 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Invokana (100 mg and 300 mg film-coated tablet) intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. This 
recommendation will now be forwarded to the European Commission, which will issue a legally binding 
decision. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V.  
The indication recommended by the CHMP is as follows:  
“Invokana is indicated in adults aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve 
glycaemic control as: 
Monotherapy 
When diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control in patients for whom the use 
of metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications. 
Add-on therapy 
Add-on therapy with other glucose-lowering medicinal products including insulin, when these, together 
with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5, and 5.1 for 
available data on different add-on therapies).” 
The active substance of Invokana, canagliflozin, is a blood glucose-lowering medicine. It works by 
blocking a protein in the kidney called the human sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2). This 
reduces glucose re-absorption in the kidney leading to glucose excretion in the urine, thereby lowering 
levels of glucose in the blood of patients with type 2 diabetes. 
The most common side effects with Invokana are hypoglycaemia (when used in combination with 
insulin or a sulphonylurea), vulvovaginal candidiasis, urinary tract infection, and polyuria or pollakiuria 
(i.e., urinary frequency). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Invokana will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The medicine is to be available only on prescription. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Invokana 
EMA/CHMP/564958/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
