European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/810712/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
TEMOZOLOMIDE HOSPIRA  
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): temozolomide 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Temozolomide Hospira, 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 180 mg and 250 mg, hard capsules intended for 
the  treatment  of  glioblastoma  and  malignant  glioma.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Hospira UK Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Temozolomide  Hospira 
temozolomide,  an  antineoplastic  and 
immunomodulating  agent.  Temozolomide  (TMZ)  is  a  triazene,  which  undergoes  rapid  chemical 
conversion at physiologic pH to the active monomethyl triazenoimidazole carboxamide (MTIC). The 
cytotoxicity of MTIC is thought to be due primarily to alkylation at the O6 position of guanine with 
additional alkylation also occurring at the N7 position. Cytotoxic lesions that develop subsequently are 
thought to involve aberrant repair of the methyl adduct.  
is 
Temozolomide  Hospira  is  a  generic  of  Temodal,  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since  
26 January 1999. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Temozolomide Hospira and its 
bioequivalence  with  Temodal.  A  question-and-answer  document  on  generic  medicines  can  be  found 
here.  
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Temozolomide  Hospira,  as  for  all  medicinal  products,  will  be 
implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indications are as follows:  
- 
the 
- 
treatment  of  adult  patients  with  newly-diagnosed  glioblastoma  multiforme 
For 
concomitantly with radiotherapy (RT) and subsequently as monotherapy treatment. 
For  the  treatment  of  children  from  the  age  of  three  years,  adolescents  and  adult  patients  with 
malignant  glioma,  such  as  glioblastoma  multiforme  or  anaplastic  astrocytoma,  showing 
recurrence or progression after standard therapy. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Temozolomide H and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
