13 December 2012 
EMA/800447/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Abilify 
aripiprazole  
On 13 December 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Abilify. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Abilify is indicated for the treatment up to 12 weeks of moderate to severe manic episodes in Bipolar I 
Disorder in adolescents aged 13 years and older (see section 5.1). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Abilify will be as follows2: 
Abilify is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and in adolescents aged 15 years and 
older. 
Abilify is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder and for 
the prevention of a new manic episode in adults who experienced predominantly manic episodes and 
whose manic episodes responded to aripiprazole treatment (see section 5.1). 
Abilify is indicated for the treatment up to 12 weeks of moderate to severe manic episodes 
in Bipolar I Disorder in adolescents aged 13 years and older (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
