23 January 2014 
EMA/CHMP/41421/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bemfola 
follitropin alfa  
On 23 January 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bemfola 
intended for the treatment of fertility disorders. The applicant for this medicinal product is FINOX 
Biotech AG. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Bemfola is follitropin alfa, a recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone 
(G03GA05). Follitropin alfa is essential for normal female gamete growth and maturation, and 
induction of normal gonadal steroid production. Deficient endogenous production of FSH is a known 
cause of infertility and administration of exogenous gonadotropins is used to treat this condition.  
The benefits with Bemfola are its ability for the treatment of fertility disorders. The most common side 
effects are headache, ovarian cysts and local injection site reactions. Mild or moderate Ovarian 
Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) has been commonly reported and should be considered as an 
intrinsic risk of the stimulation procedure. Thromboembolism may occur very rarely, usually associated 
with severe OHSS. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Bemfola will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
In adult women: 
• 
• 
Anovulation (including polycystic ovarian disease, PCOD) in women who have been 
unresponsive to treatment with clomiphene citrate. 
Stimulation of multifollicular development in patients undergoing superovulation for assisted 
reproductive technologies (ART) such as in vitro fertilisation (IVF), gamete intra-fallopian 
transfer (GIFT) and zygote intra-fallopian transfer (ZIFT). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
• 
Follitropin alfa in association with a luteinising hormone (LH) preparation is recommended for 
the stimulation of follicular development in women with severe LH and FSH deficiency. In 
clinical trials these patients were defined by an endogenous serum LH level < 1.2 IU/l. 
In adult men: 
• 
Follitropin alfa is indicated for the stimulation of spermatogenesis in men who have congenital 
or acquired hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism with concomitant human Chorionic 
Gonadotrophin (hCG) therapy. 
It is proposed that Bemfola be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of treatment of 
fertility disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Bemfola and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Bemfola 
EMA/CHMP/41421/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
