30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/38428/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Givlaari 
givosiran 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Givlaari2, 
intended for the treatment of acute hepatic porphyria. Givlaari was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated 
assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Alnylam Netherlands B.V. 
Givlaari will be available as 189 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Givlaari is givosiran, 
a small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) that causes degradation of the messenger ribonucleic acid 
(mRNA) involved in synthesis of aminolevulinate acid synthase-1, leading to reduced circulating levels of 
the neurotoxic intermediates aminolevulinic acid and porphobilinogen. 
The benefits with Givlaari is its ability to reduce the rate of porphyria attacks which would have otherwise 
required hospitalisation or a healthcare visit, or intravenous treatment with hemin at home. 
The most common side effects are injection site reactions, nausea, fatigue and abnormalities in kidney 
and liver function. 
The full indication is: “treatment of acute hepatic porphyria (AHP) in adults and adolescents aged 12 
years and older”. 
Therapy should be started under the supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the 
management of porphyria. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
