21 March 2013 
EMA/167896/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Aubagio 
teriflunomide 
On 21 March 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Aubagio 14 
mg film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The Committee also concluded 
that the active substance contained in Aubagio, teriflunomide, could not be considered to be a new 
active substance.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-aventis groupe. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The approved indication is: "treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(MS)". 
Teriflunomide is a selective immunosuppressant (L04AA31) with anti-inflammatory properties. The 
exact mechanism by which teriflunomide exerts its therapeutic effect in MS is not fully understood, but 
it is known to reduce the proliferation of lymphocytes by blocking the mitochondrial enzyme 
dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHO-DH). 
The benefit with Aubagio is its ability to reduce the relapse rate in patients with relapsing remitting MS. 
The most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infections, urinary tract infections, 
diarrhoea, nausea, paraesthesia (pins and needles), alopecia (loss of hair) and increase in the liver 
enzyme alanine aminotransferase. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Aubagio will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
Treatment with Aubagio should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the 
management of multiple sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-risk balance for Aubagio and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Aubagio 
EMA/167896/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
