16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/513776/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rivaroxaban Mylan 
Rivaroxaban 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rivaroxaban 
Mylan, intended for the prevention of venous thromboembolism, the treatment and prevention of deep 
vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, and the prevention of atherothrombotic events, stroke and 
systemic embolism in adults with various risk factors for such events, as well as the treatment and 
prevention of venous thromboembolism in children and adolescents. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan Ireland Limited. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan will be available as 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active 
substance of Rivaroxaban Mylan is rivaroxaban, an antithrombotic agent (ATC code: B01AF01) which acts 
as a direct factor Xa inhibitor. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan is a generic of Xarelto, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 September 2008. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Rivaroxaban Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference Xarelto. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Rivaroxaban Mylan, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel 
or ticlopidine, is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an 
acute coronary syndrome (ACS) with elevated cardiac biomarkers (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1) (2.5 
mg) 
Rivaroxaban Mylan, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic 
peripheral artery disease (PAD) at high risk of ischaemic events (2.5 mg). 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee 
replacement surgery (10 mg). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients) (10 mg, 15 mg, 
20 mg and 15+20 mg initiation pack). 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (15 mg and 20 mg). 
Treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and 
adolescents aged less than 18 years and weighing from 30 kg to 50 kg after at least 5 days of initial 
parenteral anticoagulation treatment (15 mg).  
Treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and 
adolescents aged less than 18 years and weighing more than 50 kg after at least 5 days of initial 
parenteral anticoagulation treatment (20 mg).  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Rivaroxaban Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/513776/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
