17 November 2011  
EMA/882977/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Erbitux 
cetuximab         
On 17 November 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Erbitux. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck 
KGaA. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
"Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-
expressing, KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer 
 
in first line in combination with FOLFOX". 
In addition, the CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
"The combination of Erbitux with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy is contraindicated for patients 
with mutant KRAS metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) or for whom KRAS mCRC status is unknown 
(see also section 4.4)." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Erbitux will be as follows2: 
Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-
expressing, KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer 
 
 
 
in combination with irinotecan-based chemotherapy 
in first line in combination with FOLFOX 
as a single agent in patients who have failed oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based therapy and who 
are intolerant to irinotecan. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
For details, see Section 5.1. 
Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck 
 
 
in combination with radiation therapy for locally advanced disease, 
in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic disease. 
In addition, the full contraindications for Erbitux will be as follows3: 
"Erbitux is contraindicated in patients with known severe (grade 3 or 4) hypersensitivity reactions to 
cetuximab. 
The combination of Erbitux with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy is contraindicated for 
patients with mutant KRAS metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) or for whom KRAS mCRC 
status is unknown (see also section 4.4). 
Before initiation of combination treatment, contraindications for concomitantly used chemotherapeutic 
agents or radiation therapy must be considered.". 
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
Erbitux 
EMA/882977/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
