14 September 2017  
EMA/CHMP/594248/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nyxoid 
naloxone 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nyxoid, 
intended for the treatment of opioid overdose. The applicant for this medicinal product is Mundipharma 
Corporation Limited. 
Nyxoid will be available as a nasal spray (1.8 mg). The active substance of Nyxoid is naloxone, an 
antidote that acts as opioid receptor antagonist (ATC code: V03AB15). 
The benefits with Nyxoid are its ability to reverse symptoms of opioid overdose. The most common side 
effects are nausea and opioid withdrawal syndrome.  
Nyxoid is a hybrid medicine2 of Naloxon HCl (solution for injection) which has been authorised in the EU 
since 2006. Nyxoid contains the same active substance as Naloxon HCl, but it is given into the nostrils. 
The full indication is:  
“Nyxoid is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy for known or suspected opioid 
overdose as manifested by respiratory and/or central nervous system depression in both non-medical and 
healthcare settings. 
Nyxoid is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 14 years and over. 
Nyxoid is not a substitute for emergency medical care.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
