24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/596066/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cinacalcet Mylan 
cinacalcet 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cinacalcet 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid carcinoma. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Cinacalcet Mylan will be available as 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance 
of Cinacalcet Mylan is cinacalcet, a calcimimetic agent (ATC code: H05BX01). It increases the sensitivity 
of the calcium-sensing receptors on the parathyroid glands and other tissues, leading to reduced 
secretion of parathyroid hormone by the parathyroid glands and a resultant decrease in blood calcium 
levels. 
Cinacalcet Mylan is a generic of Mimpara, which has been authorised in the EU since 22 October 2004. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Cinacalcet Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Mimpara. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on 
maintenance dialysis therapy. Cinacalcet Mylan may be used as part of a therapeutic regimen including 
phosphate binders and/or vitamin D sterols, as appropriate (see section 5.1).  
Reduction of hypercalcaemia in patients with:  
• 
• 
parathyroid carcinoma.  
primary HPT for whom parathyroidectomy would be indicated on the basis of serum calcium levels (as 
defined by relevant treatment guidelines), but in whom parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate 
or is contraindicated." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
granted by the European Commission. 
Cinacalcet Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/596066/2015 
Page 2/2 
  
  
