25 April 2013 
EMA/CHMP/61591/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Spedra 
avanafil 
On  25  April  2013,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Spedra, 
50 mg,  100  mg,  200  mg,  tablet  intended  for  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction  in  adult  men.  The 
applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  VIVUS  BV.  They  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP 
opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of  their  intention  within  15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Spedra  is  avanafil,  a  selective  phosphodiesterase  (PDE)  type  5  inhibitor  that 
leads  to  higher  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)-specific  PDE5  levels.  This  enhances  smooth 
muscle  relaxation,  which  results  in  an  inflow  of  blood  into  the  penile  tissues,  thereby  producing  an 
erection. 
The  benefit  with  Spedra  is  its  effect  on  the  ability  of  men  with  erectile  dysfunction  to  achieve  and 
maintain  an  erection  sufficient  for  satisfactory  sexual  activity.  It  was  observed  in  clinical  trials  that 
Spedra increased the percentage of sexual attempts resulting in successful intercourse by roughly 20-
30% over placebo in the general population of adult men with erectile dysfunction. The most common 
side effects are headache, flushing, nasal and sinus congestion, dyspepsia and back pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Spedra will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.   
The approved indication is: "Treatment of erectile dysfunction in adult men. In order for Spedra to be 
effective, sexual stimulation is required.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Spedra and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Spedra 
EMA/CHMP/61591/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
