20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/600950/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Icandra 
vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending variations to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Icandra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
 
“Icandra is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an                         
adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled with metformin and a 
sulphonylurea. 
 
Icandra is indicated in triple combination therapy with insulin as an adjunct to diet and exercise to 
improve glycaemic control in patients when insulin at a stable dose and metformin alone do not 
provide adequate glycaemic control." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Icandra will be as follows2: 
“Icandra is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
 
Icandra is indicated in the treatment of adult patients who are unable to achieve sufficient 
glycaemic control at their maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone or who are already 
treated with the combination of vildagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
Icandra is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e. triple combination 
therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled with 
metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
 
Icandra is indicated in triple combination therapy with insulin as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients when insulin at a stable dose and 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Icandra 
EMA/CHMP/600950/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
