18 October 2012 
EMA/CHMP/582765/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ryzodeg 
Insulin degludec / insulin aspart 
On 18 October 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ryzodeg, 
100 units/mL, solution for injection intended for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Ryzodeg are insulin degludec and insulin aspart, a soluble insulin product 
consisting of the basal insulin degludec and the rapid-acting prandial insulin aspart. Insulin degludec 
and insulin aspart bind specifically to the human insulin receptor and results in the same 
pharmacological effects as human insulin. The ATC code for Ryzodeg has not been assigned yet. 
The benefits with Ryzodeg are its ability to lower HbA1c, and a lower risk of nocturnal hypoglycaemia 
when compared with insulin glargine. Despite positive effects on nocturnal hypoglycaemia overall 
hypoglycaemia remained the most common side effect. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ryzodeg will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Ryzodeg and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
