30 May 2013 
EMA/CHMP/332285/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Glivec 
imatinib 
On 30 May 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Glivec. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Glivec is indicated for the treatment of paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia 
chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Glivec will be as follows2: 
Glivec is indicated for the treatment of 
• 
• 
• 
• 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) positive 
(Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not considered 
as the first line of treatment. 
adult and paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha 
therapy, or in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy. 
adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ ALL as monotherapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
• 
• 
adult patients with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD) associated with 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) gene re-arrangements. 
adult patients with advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic 
leukaemia (CEL) with FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement. 
The effect of Glivec on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined. 
Glivec is indicated for 
•  the treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic malignant 
gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). 
•  the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following resection of 
Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. Patients who have a low or very low risk of recurrence should not receive 
adjuvant treatment. 
•  the treatment of adult patients with unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) and 
adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic DFSP who are not eligible for surgery. 
In adult and paediatric patients, the effectiveness of Glivec is based on overall haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates and progression-free survival in CML, on haematological and cytogenetic 
response rates in Ph+ ALL, MDS/MPD, on haematological response rates in HES/CEL and on objective 
response rates in adult patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST and DFSP and on 
recurrence-free survival in adjuvant GIST. The experience with Glivec in patients with MDS/MPD 
associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements is very limited (see section 5.1). Except in newly 
diagnosed chronic phase CML, there are no controlled trials demonstrating a clinical benefit or 
increased survival for these diseases. 
Glivec 
EMA/CHMP/332285/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
