European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 November 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/362887/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ELONVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): corifollitropin alfa  
On  19  November  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Elonva 
100  micrograms/0.5  ml,  150  micrograms/0.5  ml,  solution  for  injection  intended  for  the  Controlled 
Ovarian Stimulation (COS) in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple 
follicles  in  women  participating  in  an  Assisted  Reproductive  Technology  (ART)  program.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is N.V. Organon. 
The active substance of Elonva is corifollitropin alfa, a gonadotrophin (G03GA09), a follicle stimulant 
with  prolonged  duration  of  FSH  (follicle  stimulating  hormone)  activity.  Its  prolonged  activity  was 
achieved  by  adding  the  carboxy-terminal  peptide  of  the  β-subunit  of  human  chorionic  gonadotropin 
(hCG) to the β-chain of human FSH. Elonva is produced by recombinant DNA technology 
The benefits with Elonva are its ability to initiate and sustain multiple follicular growth for an entire 
week. A single subcutaneous injection of the recommended dose of Elonva may replace the first seven 
injections of any daily (recombinant) FSH preparation in a COS treatment cycle. The most common 
side  effects  are  OHSS,  pelvic  pain  and  discomfort,  headache,  nausea,  fatigue  and  breast  complaints 
(including tenderness). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Elonva, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  in  combination  with  a  GnRH 
antagonist  for  the  development  of  multiple  follicles  in  women  participating  in  an  Assisted 
Reproductive  Technology  (ART)  program.”  Treatment  with  Elonva  should  be  initiated  under  the 
supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of fertility problems.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Elonva and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
