20 February 2014 
EMA/CHMP/68061/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
BiResp Spiromax 
budesonide / formoterol  
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product BiResp 
Spiromax, 160/4.5 and 320/9 micrograms per dose, inhalation powder intended for the regular 
treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate (in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids 
and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists, or in patients already adequately 
controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists), and in the 
symptomatic treatment of patients with severe COPD (FEV1 < 50% predicted normal) and a history of 
repeated exacerbations, who have significant symptoms despite regular therapy with long-acting 
bronchodilators.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
BiResp Spiromax (ATC code: R03AK07) is a fixed-dose combination of the active substances 
budesonide, an inhaled glucocorticosteroid, and formoterol, a selective long-acting inhaled 2 
adrenoceptor agonist. Budesonide has anti-inflammatory activity in the lungs and formoterol exerts a 
preferential effect on 2 adrenergic receptors on bronchial smooth muscle to produce relaxation and 
bronchodilatation.  
The benefits with BiResp Spiromax are its ability to improve pulmonary function and reduce 
exacerbations in COPD and provide overall asthma control. The most common side effects are 
predictable adverse reactions of 2 adrenoceptor agonist therapy, such as tremor and palpitations. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for BiResp Spiromax will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
“BiResp Spiromax is indicated in adults 18 years of age and older only.  
Asthma 
BiResp Spiromax is indicated in the regular treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled 
corticosteroid and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: 
-in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” inhaled short-
acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. 
or 
-in patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonists. 
COPD 
Symptomatic treatment of patients with severe COPD (FEV1 < 50% predicted normal) and a history of 
repeated exacerbations, who have significant symptoms despite regular therapy with long-acting 
bronchodilators.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for BiResp Spiromax and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
BiResp Spiromax 
EMA/CHMP/68061/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
