24 May 2012 
EMA/CHMP/246097/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Novothirteen 
Catridecacog 
On 24 May 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Novothirteen, 2500 IU, Powder and solvent for solution for injection intended for long term 
prophylactic treatment of bleeding in patients 6 years and above with congenital factor XIII A-subunit 
deficiency. Novothirteen was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 12 December 2003. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Novothirteen is Catridecacog, a recombinant coagulation factor XIII A-subunit 
from the therapeutic class of antihaemorrhagics blood coagulation factor XIII (ATC code: B02BD11) 
produced in yeast cells by recombinant DNA technology. It is structurally identical to the human FXIII 
A-subunit [A2], the subunit of FXIII which contains the enzymatic activity, which binds to the FXIII B-
subunit [A2B2]. Upon activation, FXIII cross-links fibrin and other proteins resulting in increased 
mechanical strength and resistance to fibrinolysis of the fibrin clot and contributes to enhanced platelet 
and clot adhesion to the injured tissue. 
The benefits with NovoThirteen are its ability to substitute the endogenous FXIII A-subunit [A2] in 
congenital factor XIII A-subunit deficient patients and decreasing the rate of bleeding episodes 
requiring treatment with a FXIII-containing product as compared to historical controls. The most 
common side effects are headache, leucopenia and aggravated neutropenia, pain in extremity, 
injection site pain, non-neutralising antibodies and fibrin D-dimer increase. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Novothirteen will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: " Long term prophylactic treatment of bleeding in patients 6 years and 
above with congenital factor XIII A-subunit deficiency.. It is proposed that Novothirteen should be 
prescribed and initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of rare 
bleeding disorders.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Novothirteen and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Novothirteen 
EMA/CHMP/246097/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
