14 December 2017 
EMA/CHMP/726991/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ozempic 
semaglutide 
On 14 December 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ozempic, 
intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk 
A/S. 
Ozempic will be available as a 1.34 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Ozempic is 
semaglutide, a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist (ATC code: A10B). Like native GLP-1, 
semaglutide leads to an increase in glucose-dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon 
release. 
The benefits with Ozempic are its clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control in patients with type 2 
diabetes when used in combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products or on its own when 
metformin cannot be used. Ozempic has also a beneficial effect on body weight. The most common side 
effects are hypoglycaemia when used in certain combinations and gastrointestinal side effects such as 
nausea and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is:  
"Ozempic is indicated for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise 
• 
• 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. 
For study results with respect to combinations, effects on glycaemic control and cardiovascular events, 
and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
