19 April 2012 
EMA/CHMP/231626/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jakavi 
ruxolitinib  
On 19 April 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Jakavi, 5, 
15, 20mg, tablet intended for the treatment of chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis and treatment of 
myelofibrosis secondary to polycythaemia vera or essential thrombocythaemia. Jakavi was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 07 November 2008 and 03 April 2009.  The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Jakavi is ruxolitinib, a protein kinase inhibitor, ATC code: L01XE18, the 
antineoplastic activity of which is linked to the selective inhibition of the Janus Associated Kinases 
(JAKs) involved in the signalling mediation of a number of cytokines and growth factors that are 
important for haematopoiesis and immune function. 
The benefits with Jakavi are its ability to reduce the size of the spleen by at least 35 % and to treat 
other symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic 
myelofibrosis), post polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post essential thrombocythaemia 
myelofibrosis. The most common side effects are thrombocytopenia, anaemia and bleeding. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Jakavi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: " Jakavi is indicated for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or 
symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic 
myelofibrosis), post polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post essential thrombocythaemia 
myelofibrosis.” It is proposed that ruxolitinib be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
administration of anti-cancer agents.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Jakavi and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Jakavi 
EMA/CHMP/231626/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
