27 June 2019  
EMA/CHMP/360998/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cyramza 
ramucirumab 
On 27 June 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cyramza. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Cyramza monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced or 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma who have a serum alpha fetoprotein (AFP) of ≥ 400 ng/ml 
and who have been previously treated with sorafenib”. 
For information, the full indications for Cyramza will be as follows:2 
“Gastric cancer 
Cyramza in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced gastric cancer or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with disease progression 
after prior platinum and fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy (see section 5.1).  
Cyramza monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastric cancer 
or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma with disease progression after prior platinum or 
fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy, for whom treatment in combination with paclitaxel is not 
appropriate (see section 5.1). 
Colorectal cancer 
Cyramza, in combination with FOLFIRI (irinotecan, folinic acid, and 5-fluorouracil), is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with disease progression 
on or after prior therapy with bevacizumab, oxaliplatin and a fluoropyrimidine. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Cyramza in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with disease progression after platinum-based 
chemotherapy. 
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Cyramza monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced or 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma who have a serum alpha fetoprotein (AFP) of 
≥ 400 ng/ml and who have been previously treated with sorafenib.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Cyramza  
EMA/CHMP/360998/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
