15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/734993/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Melatonin Neurim 
melatonin 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Melatonin 
Neurim, intended for the treatment of insomnia. The applicant for this medicinal product is RAD Neurim 
Pharmaceuticals EEC SARL. 
Melatonin Neurim will be available as a 2 mg prolonged-release tablet. The active substance of Melatonin 
Neurim is melatonin, a psycholeptic (ATC code: N05CH01). Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone 
associated with the control of circadian rhythms and entrainment to the light-dark cycle. It is also 
associated with a hypnotic effect and increased propensity for sleep.  
The benefits of Melatonin Neurim are improvements in sleep latency, quality of sleep and morning 
alertness, as measured in randomised, placebo-controlled trials. The most common side effects are 
headache, nasopharyngitis, back pain and arthralgia. 
The application for Melatonin Neurim was an informed consent application. In an informed consent 
application, reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the 
reference medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The 
reference product for Melatonin Neurim is Circadin.  
The full indication is: 
Melatonin Neurim is indicated as monotherapy for the short-term treatment of primary insomnia 
characterised by poor quality of sleep in patients who are aged 55 or over. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
