15 December 2016  
EMA/CHMP/827091/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Ilaris 
canakinumab 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ilaris. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted new indications as follows: 
"Periodic fever syndromes 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of the following autoinflammatory periodic fever syndromes in 
adults, adolescents and children aged 2 years and older: 
Tumour necrosis factor receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated periodic 
syndrome (TRAPS). 
Hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome (HIDS)/mevalonate kinase deficiency (MKD) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome (HIDS)/mevalonate kinase 
deficiency (MKD). 
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). Ilaris should be given in 
combination with colchicine, if appropriate.” 
For information, the full indications for Ilaris will be as follows2: 
“Periodic fever syndromes 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of the following autoinflammatory periodic fever 
syndromes in adults, adolescents and children aged 2 years and older: 
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 2 years and older with body weight of 7.5 kg or above, including: 
−  Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS), 
−  Neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID) / chronic infantile neurological, 
cutaneous, articular syndrome (CINCA), 
−  Severe forms of familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS) / familial cold urticaria (FCU) 
presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
Tumour necrosis factor receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated 
periodic syndrome (TRAPS). 
Hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome (HIDS)/mevalonate kinase deficiency (MKD) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome 
(HIDS)/mevalonate kinase deficiency (MKD). 
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). Ilaris should 
be given in combination with colchicine, if appropriate. 
Ilaris is also indicated for the treatment of: 
Still’s disease 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of active Still’s disease including adult-onset Still’s disease (AOSD) 
and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) in patients aged 2 years and older who have 
responded inadequately to previous therapy with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
and systemic corticosteroids. Ilaris can be given as monotherapy or in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Gouty arthritis 
Ilaris is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of adult patients with frequent gouty arthritis attacks 
(at least 3 attacks in the previous 12 months) in whom non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) and colchicine are contraindicated, are not tolerated, or do not provide an adequate 
response, and in whom repeated courses of corticosteroids are not appropriate (see section 5.1)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Ilaris  
EMA/CHMP/827091/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
