16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/732482/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sapropterin Dipharma 
sapropterin 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sapropterin 
Dipharma, intended for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninemia (HPA).  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Dipharma B.V. 
Sapropterin Dipharma will be available as powder for oral solution (100 and 500 mg) and soluble tablets 
(100 mg). The active substance of Sapropterin Dipharma is sapropterin, a ‘various alimentary tract and 
metabolism’ medicinal product (ATC code: A16AX07). Sapropterin is a synthetic version of the naturally 
occurring tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4), a cofactor of hydroxylases for phenylalanine, tyrosine and 
tryptophan.  
Sapropterin Dipharma is a generic of Kuvan, which has been authorised in the EU since 2 December 
2008. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sapropterin Dipharma, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Kuvan. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Sapropterin Dipharma is indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults and 
paediatric patients of all ages with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been shown to be responsive to 
such treatment (see section 4.2). 
Sapropterin Dipharma is also indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in adults 
and paediatric patients of all ages with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency who have been shown to 
be responsive to such treatment (see section 4.2). 
Sapropterin Dipharma must be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of 
PKU and BH4 deficiency. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Sapropterin Dipharma  
EMA/CHMP/732482/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
