18 October 2018 
EMA/CHMP/641495/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Flucelvax Tetra 
Influenza vaccine (surface antigen, inactivated, prepared in cell cultures) 
On 18 October 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Flucelvax 
Tetra, intended for prophylaxis against influenza. The applicant for this medicinal product is Seqirus 
Netherlands B.V. 
Flucelvax Tetra will be available as a suspension for injection in pre-filled syringes. The active substance 
of Flucelvax Tetra consists of influenza virus surface antigens (haemagglutinin and neuraminidase), 
inactivated and prepared in cell cultures, of 4 different influenza virus strains (two A subtypes and two B 
types) (ATC code: J07BB02). Flucelvax Tetra provides active immunisation against influenza virus by 
inducing humoral antibodies against the haemagglutinins. These antibodies neutralise influenza viruses. 
The benefits with Flucelvax Tetra are its ability to induce an immune response in vaccinees similar to the 
previously authorised trivalent cell-based vaccine, with the added benefit of potentially protecting against 
both circulating type B viruses. The most common side effects are pain at the injection site, headache, 
fatigue, myalgia, erythema and induration.  
The full indication is: "Prophylaxis of influenza in adults and children from 9 years of age. Flucelvax Tetra 
should be used in accordance with official recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
