22 April 2021  
EMA/CHMP/210871/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Yervoy 
ipilimumab 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Yervoy. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication in malignant pleural mesothelioma. For information, the full 
indications for Yervoy will be as follows:2  
Melanoma 
Yervoy as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults, and adolescents 12 years of age and older (see section 4.4). 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose tumours have 
no sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Yervoy  
EMA/CHMP/210871/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
