30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/28049/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ruxience 
rituximab 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ruxience, 
intended for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), and 
Pemphigus vulgaris (PV). The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Ruxience will be available as 100 mg and 500 mg concentrates for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Ruxience is rituximab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC02) that binds specifically to 
the transmembrane protein CD20 found on both malignant and normal B cells. In NHL and CLL, this 
promotes destruction of malignant B cells and thus controls tumour growth. In RA, GPA, MPA and PV it 
reduces the number of B cells involved in their pathogenesis. 
Ruxience is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product MabThera, which 
was authorised in the EU on 2 June 1998. Data show that Ruxience has comparable quality, safety and 
efficacy to MabThera (rituximab). More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indications are:  
“Ruxience is indicated in adults for the following indications: 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) 
Ruxience is indicated for the treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular 
lymphoma in combination with chemotherapy. 
Ruxience maintenance therapy is indicated for the treatment of follicular lymphoma patients 
responding to induction therapy. 
Ruxience monotherapy is indicated for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma 
who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Ruxience is indicated for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B cell 
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone) chemotherapy. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
Ruxience in combination with chemotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
previously untreated and relapsed/refractory CLL. Only limited data are available on efficacy and 
safety for patients previously treated with monoclonal antibodies including rituximab or patients 
refractory to previous rituximab plus chemotherapy. 
See section 5.1 for further information. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Ruxience in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) including one or more tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF) inhibitor therapies. 
Ruxience has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by 
X-ray and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis 
Ruxience, in combination with glucocorticoids, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
severe, active granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener’s) (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis 
(MPA). 
Pemphigus vulgaris  
Ruxience is indicated for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe pemphigus vulgaris 
(PV).” 
It is proposed that Ruxience should be administered under the close supervision of an experienced 
healthcare professional, and in an environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately 
available.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ruxience  
EMA/CHMP/28049/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
