12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/655997/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dexmedetomidine Accord 
dexmedetomidine 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Dexmedetomidine Accord, intended for the induction of light to moderate sedation of adults in intensive 
care unit. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Dexmedetomidine Accord will be available as a concentrate for solution for infusion (100 µg/ml). The 
active substance of Dexmedetomidine Accord is dexmedetomidine, a sedative agent (ATC code: 
N05CM18) acting as a selective alpha-2 receptor agonist with a broad range of pharmacological 
properties. The sedative effects are mediated through decreased firing of locus coeruleus, the 
predominant noradrenergic nucleus situated in the brainstem. Dexmedetomidine has shown some 
analgesic and anaesthetic/analgesic-sparing effects. 
Dexmedetomidine Accord is a generic of Dexdor, which has been authorised in the EU. Since 
Dexmedetomidine Accord is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Dexdor was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
“For sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care Unit) patients requiring a sedation level not deeper 
than arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation 
Scale (RASS) 0 to -3). 
For sedation of non-intubated adult patients prior to and/or during diagnostic or surgical 
procedures requiring sedation, i.e. procedural/awake sedation.” 
It is proposed that Dexmedetomidine Accord is for hospital use only. Dexmedetomidine Accord should be 
administered by healthcare professionals skilled in the management of patients requiring intensive care. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Dexmedetomidine Accord  
EMA/CHMP/655997/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
