20 May 2010 
EMA/CHMP/316582/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ozurdex 
dexamethasone 
On 20 May 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ozurdex, 
700 micrograms intravitreal implant in applicator intended for the treatment of adult patients with 
macular oedema following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein 
Occlusion (CRVO). The applicant for this medicinal product is Allergan Pharmaceuticals Ireland. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ozurdex is dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory agent (S01BA01), which has 
been shown to suppress inflammation by acting on and inhibiting key features of the inflammatory 
response such as oedema, fibrin deposition, capillary leakage and phagocytic migration. 
Macular oedema involves the breakdown of the inner blood-retinal barrier at the level of the capillary 
endothelium, resulting in abnormal retinal vascular permeability and leakage into the adjacent retinal 
tissues. The macula then becomes thickened due to fluid accumulation resulting in significant 
disturbances in visual acuity. The reduction in vision may be reversible in the short term, but 
prolonged oedema can cause irreversible damage, resulting in permanent vision loss.  
The benefits with Ozurdex are its effect on macular oedema following either BRVO or CRVO, its ability 
to overcome ocular drug delivery barriers and to prolong the duration of dexamethasone effect in the 
eye. The clinical safety and efficacy of Ozurdex have been assessed in two randomised, double-
masked, sham-controlled studies in patients with macular oedema. The biodegradable implant delivers 
a 700 micrograms total dose of dexamethasone to the vitreous with gradual release over time allowing 
for sustained levels of dexamethasone in the target areas. The most common side effects with Ozurdex 
are increased intraocular pressure and conjunctival haemorrhage. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ozurdex will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “OZURDEX is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with macular 
oedema following either Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) or Central Retinal Vein Occlusion 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
(CRVO)”. It is proposed that Ozurdex is administered by a qualified ophthalmologist experienced in 
intravitreal injections. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ozurdex and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Ozurdex  
EMA/CHMP/316582/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
