10 November 2016  
EMA/704543/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vemlidy 
tenofovir alafenamide 
On 10 November 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vemlidy, 
intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead 
Sciences International Ltd. 
Vemlidy will be available as 25 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Vemlidy is tenofovir 
alafenamide, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor (ATC code: J05AF13). Tenofovir alafenamide is a 
substrate and competitive inhibitor of HBV reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, it is incorporated 
into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination.  
The benefits with Vemlidy are its ability to achieve a sustained antiviral response in treatment-naive and 
treatment-experienced patients. The most common side effect is headache. Vemlidy has low impact on 
renal safety and bone mineral density compared to the licensed tenofovir disoproxil. 
The full indication is: "Vemlidy is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults and 
adolescents (aged 12 years and older with body weight at least 35 kg)". It is proposed that Vemlidy be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of chronic hepatitis B.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
