25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/467044/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revolade 
eltrombopag 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Revolade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline 
Trading Services. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the treatment 
of thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor preventing the 
initiation or limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy ". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Revolade will be as follows2: 
Revolade is indicated for adult chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) 
splenectomised patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, 
immunoglobulins). Revolade may be considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomised 
patients where surgery is contraindicated. 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the 
treatment of thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor 
preventing the initiation or limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
