EMA/CHMP/141401/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Arexvy
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted)
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Arexvy, 
intended for the prevention of Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) lower respiratory tract disease in adults 
60 years of age or older. Arexvy was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme.
The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithkline Biologicals S.A.
Arexvy will be available as a powder and suspension liquid to be made into a suspension for injection. The 
active substance of Arexvy is RSVPreF3, a recombinant RSV-specific antigen glycoprotein F stabilised in 
the pre-fusion conformation (ATC code: not yet assigned). RSVPreF3 is combined with the AS01E 
adjuvant system (strengthening the immune response); the vaccine is designed to enhance the antigen-
specific cellular immune response and neutralising antibodies response in individuals with pre-existing 
immunity against RSV.
The benefit of Arexvy is the prevention of RSV-confirmed lower respiratory tract disease. The most 
common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue, myalgia, headache and arthralgia.
The full indication is:
Arexvy is indicated for active immunisation for the prevention of lower respiratory tract 
disease (LRTD) caused by respiratory syncytial virus in adults 60 years of age and older.
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
