12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/645416/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Stelara 
ustekinumab 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Stelara. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication as follows:2  
“Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children and 
adolescent patients from the age of 126 years and older, who are inadequately controlled by, or 
are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies (see section 5.1).” 
For information, the full indications for Stelara will be as follows: 
“Plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who 
failed to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic 
therapies including ciclosporin, methotrexate (MTX) or PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A) (see 
section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children and 
adolescent patients from the age of 6 years and older, who are inadequately controlled by, or are 
intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
STELARA, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic 
arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous non-biological disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Crohn’s Disease 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant 
to either conventional therapy or a TNFα antagonist or have medical contraindications to such 
therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant 
to either conventional therapy or a biologic or have medical contraindications to such therapies 
(see section 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Stelara  
EMA/CHMP/645416/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
