European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/391474/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
SIFROL 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): pramipexole 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Sifrol.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. 
The  extension  adopted  by  the  CHMP  is  to  add  a  new  pharmaceutical  form  associated  with  new 
strengths (0.26 mg, 0.52 mg, 1.05 mg, 2.1 mg and 3.15 mg prolonged-release  tablets) to the existing 
product range.  
The new pharmaceutical form and new strengths will be used in treatment of the signs and symptoms 
of  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  disease,  alone  (without  levodopa)  or  in  combination  with  levodopa. 
Prolonged-release tablets will be used once daily. 
The indication adopted by the CHMP is, as follows: 
SIFROL is indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, alone 
(without levodopa) or in combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, through to late 
stages  when  the  effect  of  levodopa  wears  off  or  becomes  inconsistent  and  fluctuations  of  the 
therapeutic effect occur (end of dose or “on off” fluctuations). 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
