26 March 2020 
EMA/CHMP/132960/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fluad Tetra 
influenza vaccine (surface antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted) 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fluad Tetra, a vaccine 
intended for prophylaxis against influenza. The applicant for this medicinal product is Seqirus Netherlands 
B.V. 
Fluad Tetra will be available as a suspension for injection in pre-filled syringes. The active substance of Fluad 
Tetra is influenza virus surface antigens (haemagglutinin and neuraminidase), inactivated, from 4 different 
influenza virus strains (two A subtypes and two B types) (ATC code: J07BB02). Fluad Tetra contains the 
adjuvant MF59C.1 (MF59), which is designed to increase and broaden the antigen-specific immune response 
and to extend the duration of the immune response. Fluad Tetra provides active immunisation against 
influenza virus by inducing neutralising antibodies against viral haemagglutinin. 
The benefits with Fluad Tetra are its ability to induce an immune response in vaccinees similar to the 
previously authorised adjuvanted trivalent vaccine, with the added benefit of potentially protecting against 
both circulating type B viruses. The most common side effects are pain at the injection site, headache and 
fatigue.  
The full indication is:  
Prophylaxis of influenza in the elderly (65 years of age and older). Fluad Tetra should be used in 
accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
  
                                                
