16 December 2010 
EMA/CHMP/806039/2010 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Teysuno 
tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil 
On 16 December 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Teysuno, 
15 mg and 20 mg, hard capsule, intended for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer in adults when 
given in combination with cisplatin. Teysuno was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 
20 December 2007. The applicant for this medicinal product is Taiho Pharma Europe Ltd. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Teysuno is tegafur, a prodrug of 5-FU which is a Pyrimidine analogue 
(L01BC53) together with the two modulators of 5-FU metabolism, gimeracil and oteracil. Tegafur is an 
orally bioavailable fluoropyrimidine that is converted into 5-FU, which causes death of proliferating 
cells by inhibiting DNA synthesis and by affecting RNA function. 
The benefits with Teysuno are its daily oral dosing without the requirement of a central venous 
catheter and hospital admission (as necessary for 5-FU continuous i.v. infusion). Teysuno in 
combination with cisplatin has been shown to be non-inferior to 5-FU+cisplatin in patients with 
advanced gastric cancer in terms of overall survival, response rate and progression free survival. The 
most common side effects are anaemia, neutropenia, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, weight 
decrease, anorexia and fatigue.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Teysuno will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Teysuno is indicated in adults for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer 
when given in combination with cisplatin”.  
Teysuno should only be prescribed by a qualified physician experienced in treating cancer patients with 
anti-neoplastic medicinal products.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Teysuno and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Teysuno  
EMA/CHMP/806039/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
