24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/424921/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xultophy 
insulin degludec / liraglutide 
On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal Xultophy, 
100 units/mL + 3.6 mg/mL, solution for injection, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xultophy is insulin degludec / liraglutide, a fixed dose combination of a basal 
insulin and a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist. Insulin degludec binds specifically to 
the human insulin receptor and results in the same pharmacological effects as human insulin. 
Liraglutide acts via enhancing glucose-dependent insulin secretion and reducing glucagon release.  
The benefits with Xultophy are its clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control in patients with type 2 
diabetes when used in combination with other oral glucose-lowering medicinal products. Xultophy has 
a neutral effect on body weight. The most common side effects are hypoglycaemia and gastrointestinal 
adverse reactions such as nausea and diarrhoea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xultophy will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Xultophy is indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus to improve glycaemic control in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products 
when these alone or combined with basal insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1 for available data on the different combinations)."  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xultophy and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Xultophy 
EMA/CHMP/424921/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
