28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/265461/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xenleta 
lefamulin 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xenleta, 
intended for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Nabriva Therapeutics Ireland DAC. 
Xenleta will be available as a 150 mg concentrate and solvent for solution for infusion and 600 mg film-
coated tablets. The active substance of Xenleta is lefamulin, a pleuromutilin antibacterial for systemic use 
(ATC code: J01XX12) which inhibits bacterial protein synthesis. 
The benefit with Xenleta is its ability to treat community-acquired pneumonia, as shown in two large 
clinical trials. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, hepatic enzyme elevation 
and QT prolongation. 
The full indication is: 
Xenleta is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults when it 
is considered inappropriate to use antibacterial agents that are commonly recommended for the 
initial treatment of CAP or when these have failed. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
