25 April 2013 
EMA/CHMP/244652/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revlimid 
lenalidomide 
On 25 April 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Revlimid. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe 
Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Revlimid is indicated for the treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent anaemia due to low- or 
intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes associated with an isolated deletion 5q cytogenetic 
abnormality when other therapeutic options are insufficient or inadequate.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Revlimid will be as follows2: 
Multiple myeloma 
Revlimid in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma in 
adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. 
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Revlimid is indicated for the treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent anaemia due 
to low- or intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes associated with an isolated 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality when other therapeutic options are insufficient or 
inadequate. 
Revlimid 
EMA/CHMP/244652/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
