20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/693590/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rasagiline ratiopharm 
rasagiline 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rasagiline ratiopharm, 1 mg, tablet  indicated for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) 
as monotherapy (without levodopa) or as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end of dose 
fluctuations. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva B.V. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Rasagiline ratiopharm is rasagiline. 
The benefits with Rasagiline ratiopharm are to reduce symptoms of Parkinson’s disease as 
monotherapy in early patients and to reduce “OFF time” as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients 
with end of dose fluctuations. The most common side effects are headache in monotherapy and 
abnormal movements (dyskinesia) in adjunct therapy. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Rasagiline ratiopharm will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) as monotherapy (without 
levodopa) or as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end of dose fluctuations”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Rasagiline ratiopharm and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
