26 July 2018 
EMA/489607/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Gefitinib Mylan 
gefitinib 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Gefitinib 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Gefitinib Mylan will be available as 250-mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Gefitinib Mylan is 
gefitinib, an anti-neoplastic medicinal product (ATC code: L01XX31) which targets the epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase and acts as an inhibitor of cell growth by competing with ATP and 
blocking activation through the receptor. 
Gefitinib Mylan is a generic of Iressa, which has been authorised in the EU since 24 June 2009. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Gefitinib Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Iressa. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Gefitinib Mylan is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating mutations of EGFR TK." 
It is proposed that Gefitinib Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer 
therapies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
