17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/553662/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma 
pegfilgrastim 
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pegfilgrastim 
Mundipharma, intended to reduce the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia due 
to chemotherapy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Mundipharma Biologics S.L.. 
Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma will be available as 6 mg Solution for injection. The active substance of 
Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma is pegfilgrastim, a immunostimulant (ATC code: L03AA13) that belongs to the 
class of haematopoietic growth factors (granulocyte-colony stimulating factor; G-CSF) which increase the 
production and differentiation of mature and functionally active neutrophils from bone marrow precursor 
cells. 
Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product 
Neulasta (pegfilgrastim), which was authorised in the EU on 22 August 2002. Data show that Pegfilgrastim 
Mundipharma has comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Neulasta (pegfilgrastim). More information on 
biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: “Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in 
adult patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid 
leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes).”  It is proposed that Pegfilgrastim Mundipharma be initiated 
and supervised by physicians experienced in oncology and/or haematology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
