22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/39942/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Prevenar 13 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Prevenar 13. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused 
by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants, children and adolescents from 6 weeks to 17 years of age. 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease and pneumonia caused by Streptococcus 
pneumoniae in adults ≥18 years of age and the elderly. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
The use of Prevenar 13 should be determined on the basis of official recommendations taking into 
consideration the risk of invasive disease and pneumonia in different age groups, underlying 
comorbidities as well as the variability of serotype epidemiology in different geographical areas. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
