23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/595994/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Imbruvica 
ibrutinib 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Imbruvica. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International 
N.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication to include its use in combination with 
venetoclax. 
For information, the full indications for Imbruvica will therefore be as follows:2 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent or in combination with rituximab or obinutuzumab or venetoclax 
is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL) (see section 5.1). 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent or in combination with bendamustine and rituximab (BR) is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CLL who have received at least one prior 
therapy. 
IMBRUVICA as a single agent is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s 
macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line 
treatment for patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy. IMBRUVICA in combination with 
rituximab is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with WM. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
