25 January 2024
EMA/CHMP/33149/2024 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation)
Prevenar 20 (previously Apexxnar)
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (20-valent, adsorbed)
On 25 January 2024, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Prevenar 20. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG.
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication for prophylaxis against pneumonia and acute 
otitis media caused by pneumococci and associated invasive disease, in infants, children and adolescents.
For information, the full indications for Prevenar 20 will be as follows2:
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia, and acute otitis 
media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants, children, and adolescents from 
6 weeks to less than 18 years of age. 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease and pneumonia caused by 
Streptococcus pneumoniae in individuals 18 years of age and older.
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes.
ApexxnarPrevenar 20 should be used in accordance with official recommendations.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
