oate30 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/138288/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
indacaterol / glycopyrronium / mometasone furoate 
On 30 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zimbus 
Breezhaler, for maintenance treatment of asthma in adults whose disease is not adequately controlled. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Zimbus Breezhaler will be available as a 114 µg / 46 µg / 136 µg inhalation powder in hard capsules. The 
active substances of Zimbus Breezhaler are indacaterol, glycopyrronium and mometasone furoate. 
Indacaterol is a long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA), which relaxes bronchial smooth muscle; 
glycopyrronium is a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA), which dilates the airways by 
blocking cholinergic bronchoconstrictor action; and mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with 
anti-inflammatory activity. 
The benefits with Zimbus Breezhaler are its ability to improve lung function as measured by FEV1 and to 
reduce exacerbations of asthma. 
The most common side effects are asthma (exacerbation), nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract 
infection and headache. 
The full indication is:  
Zimbus Breezhaler is indicated as a maintenance treatment of asthma in adult patients not 
adequately controlled with a maintenance combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a high 
dose of an inhaled corticosteroid who experienced one or more asthma exacerbations in the 
previous year. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
