15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/455296/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rekambys 
rilpivirine 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rekambys, 
intended for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type-1(HIV-1) infection in combination with 
cabotegravir injection.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Rekambys will be available as a prolonged-release suspension for injection (600 and 900 mg). The active 
substance of Rekambys is rilpivirine, a direct -acting antiviral non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitor (NRTI) (ATC code: J05AG05). Rilpivirine triggers a non-competitive inhibition of HIV-1 reverse 
transcriptase. It should always be used in combination with cabotegravir injection, another long-acting 
antiretroviral. 
The benefits with Rekambys used in combination with cabotegravir injection are its formulation and 
delivery as a prolonged-release suspension for injection which reduces dosing frequency to once a month 
or every two months compared with daily oral antiretrovirals. A reduced dosing schedule may increase 
patient satisfaction and compliance.  
The most common side effects observed in clinical trials for this regimen (Rekambys plus cabotegravir 
injection) were injection site reactions followed by headache, pyrexia, nausea, fatigue, asthenia, myalgia 
and dizziness. 
In addition, there could be a risk of emergence of resistance associated with this long-acting regimen 
when it is not used correctly or not adhered to. Some measures have been put in place to minimise this 
risk (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
The full indication is: 
“Rekambys is indicated, in combination with cabotegravir injection, for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in adults who are virologically suppressed (HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/mL) on a stable antiretroviral regimen without present or past evidence of viral 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
resistance to, and no prior virological failure with, agents of the NNRTI and INI class (see 
sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Rekambys should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Rekambys  
EMA/CHMP/455296/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
