21 April 2017 
EMA/CHMP/76832/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rixathon 
rituximab 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rixathon, 
intended for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. 
Rixathon will be available as a 500-mg and as a 100-mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Rixathon is rituximab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC02) that binds specifically to 
the transmembrane protein CD20 found on both malignant and normal B cells. In NHL and CLL, this 
promotes destruction of malignant B cells and thus controls tumour growth. In RA, GPA and MPA, it 
reduces B cells involved in their pathogenesis. 
Rixathon is a biological medicinal product that is highly similar to the reference product Mabthera 
(rituximab), which was authorised in the EU on 2 June 1998. Studies have shown Rixathon to have 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Mabthera. 
The full indications are: 
“Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) 
Rixathon is indicated for the treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular 
lymphoma in combination with chemotherapy.  
Rixathon maintenance therapy is indicated for the treatment of follicular lymphoma patients 
responding to induction therapy. 
Rixathon monotherapy is indicated for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma 
who are chemo-resistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy. 
Rixathon is indicated for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B cell non-
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone) chemotherapy. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
Rixathon in combination with chemotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
previously untreated and relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Only limited data 
are available on efficacy and safety for patients previously treated with monoclonal antibodies 
including Rixathon or patients refractory to previous Rixathon plus chemotherapy. 
See section 5.1 for further information. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rixathon in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) including one or more tumour necrosis factor 
(TNF) inhibitor therapies. 
Rixathon has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis 
Rixathon, in combination with glucocorticoids, is indicated for the induction of remission in adult 
patients with severe, active granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener’s) (GPA) and microscopic 
polyangiitis (MPA).” 
It is proposed that Rixathon be administered under the close supervision of an experienced healthcare 
professional and in an environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately available. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Rixathon  
EMA/CHMP/76832/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
