14 October 2021 
EMA/CHMP/539313/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Vaxneuvance 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (15-valent, adsorbed) 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human  Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Vaxneuvance, 
intended for prophylaxis against pneumococcal pneumonia and associated invasive disease. 
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Vaxneuvance will be available as suspension for injection. The active substance of Vaxneuvance is 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (15-valent, adsorbed), a vaccine (ATC code: J07AL02) 
eliciting an immune response to all 15 serotypes contained in the product. 
The benefits of Vaxneuvance are the presumed protection against pneumococcal disease (based on 
immunobridging data). The most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue and headache. 
The full indication is: 
Vaxneuvance is indicated for active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease and 
pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in individuals 18 years of age and older. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
The use of Vaxneuvance should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
