18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/676678/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Quinsair 
levofloxacin 
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Quinsair, 240 mg, nebuliser solution intended for the management of chronic pulmonary infections due 
to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in adult patients with cystic fibrosis. 
Quinsair was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 23 September 2008. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Aptalis Pharma SAS. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Quinsair is levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibacterial: J01MA12, acting by 
inhibition of bacterial DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV enzymes. 
The benefits with Quinsair are its ability to prevent deterioration of respiratory function in cystic 
fibrosis patients, mainly based on data derived from one Phase 2 (MPEX 204) and two Phase 3 studies 
(MPEX 207-209). The most common side effects are cough/productive cough, dysgeusia and 
fatigue/asthenia.  Due to substantial systemic exposure observed with Quinsair, it is cautioned that the 
use of the product might be associated with treatment emerging adverse events (TEAEs) recognised to 
occur with systemic doses of levofloxacin. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Quinsair will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
"Indicated for the management of chronic pulmonary infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 
adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF, see section 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Quinsair and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Quinsair 
EMA/CHMP/676678/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
