19 July 2012 
EMA/CHMP/471107/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Adcetris 
Brentuximab vedotin 
On 19 July 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Adcetris, 50 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, intended for the treatment of of adult 
patients with relapsed or refractory CD30+ Hodgkin lymphoma (HL): (1) following autologous stem cell 
transplant (ASCT) or (2) following at least two prior therapies when ASCT or multi-agent 
chemotherapy is not a treatment option as well as for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma (sALCL). 
Adcetris was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 15 January 2009. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Takeda Global Research and Development Centre (Europe) Ltd. They may request 
a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing 
of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Adcetris is brentuximab vedotin, a monoclonal antibody (L01XC12) drug 
conjugate that delivers an antineoplastic agent that results in apoptotic cell death selectively in 
CD30-expressing tumour cells. The anti-tumour activity of brentuximab-vedotin has been established 
in the HL and sALCL study populations as well as in the relapsed or refractory HL patients ineligible for 
ASCT/multidrug chemotherapy. The different clinical endpoints demonstrated clinical benefit in terms 
of disease control, resolution of B-symptoms and in terms of enabling further potentially curative 
treatment options. 
The most common side effects are peripheral sensory neuropathy, fatigue, nausea, diarrhoea, 
neutropenia, vomiting, pyrexia, and upper respiratory tract infection.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Adcetris will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
" Adcetris is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD30+ Hodgkin 
lymphoma (HL):  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
1. 
following autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) or 
2. 
following at least two prior therapies when ASCT or multi-agent chemotherapy is not a 
treatment option. 
Adcetris is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory systemic anaplastic 
large cell lymphoma (sALCL).” 
It is proposed that Adcetris be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Adcetris and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Adcetris 
EMA/CHMP/471107/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
