22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/14288/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
IKERVIS 
ciclosporin 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product IKERVIS, 
1 mg/ml, eye drops intended for the treatment of severe keratitis in adult patients with dry eye 
disease (DED). The applicant for this medicinal product is Santen SAS. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of IKERVIS is ciclosporin, an immunosuppressant belonging to the therapeutic 
class of ophtalmologicals (S01XA18). Ciclosporin blocks the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and 
exerts an anti-inflammatory effect in ocular surface cells. 
The benefits with IKERVIS are its ability to improve ocular surface damage and reduce inflammation in 
DED patients with severe keratitis, which is thought to help prevent disease progression and 
worsening. The most common side effects are eye pain (19%), eye irritation (17.8%), lacrimation 
(6.2%), ocular hyperaemia (5.5%) and eyelid erythema (1.7%). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for IKERVIS will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of severe keratitis in adult patients with dry eye disease, which 
has not improved despite treatment with tear substitutes (see section 5.1)".  
Ikervis treatment must be initiated by an ophthalmologist or a healthcare professional qualified in 
ophthalmology.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for IKERVIS and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
IKERVIS 
EMA/CHMP/14288/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
