22 May 2014 
EMEA/CHMP/310130/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Translarna 
ataluren 
On 22 May 2014, following a re-examination procedure, the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP), adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 
marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Translarna intended for the treatment of 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).  
Translarna was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 27 May 2005. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is PTC Therapeutics Limited. 
The active substance of Translarna is ataluren. It is to be available as 125, 250 and 1000 mg 
granules for oral suspension.  
Duchenne muscular dystrophy can be caused by a number of genetic abnormalities. Translarna is 
for use in patients whose disease is due to the presence of certain defects (called nonsense 
mutations) in the dystrophin gene which prematurely stop the production of a normal dystrophin 
protein, leading to a shortened dystrophin protein that does not function properly. Translarna is 
thought to work in these patients by enabling the protein-making apparatus in cells to skip over 
the defect, allowing the cells to produce a functional dystrophin protein. 
Translarna was investigated in a pivotal study involving 174 patients with DMD. The results showed 
some evidence of efficacy of Translarna in slowing down the loss of walking ability in DMD patients. 
However, as part of the conditional marketing authorisation, the company will be required to 
provide comprehensive data on the efficacy of Translarna from an ongoing confirmatory study. 
Regarding safety, Translarna is generally well tolerated with the most common side effects being 
headache, nausea and vomiting.  
As for all medicinal products, a pharmacovigilance plan for Translarna will be implemented as part 
of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The recommended indication is: "the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy resulting from a 
nonsense mutation in the dystrophin gene, in ambulatory patients aged 5 years and older. Efficacy 
has not been demonstrated in non-ambulatory patients. The presence of a nonsense mutation in 
the dystrophin gene should be determined by genetic testing."  Treatment with Translarna should 
only be initiated by specialist physicians with experience in the management of Duchenne/Becker 
muscular dystrophy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
Translarna 
EMA/CHMP/310130/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
