30 January 2020 *corri 
EMA/CHMP/44979/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nustendi 
bempedoic acid / ezetimibe 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nustendi, 
intended for the treatment of primary hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service GmbH. 
Nustendi will be available as 180 mg / 10 mg film-coated tablets. The active substances of Nustendi are 
the lipid modifying agents bempedoic acid and ezetimibe. These two low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) 
lowering compounds have complementary mechanisms of action. Bempedoic acid reduces LDL-C by 
inhibiting cholesterol synthesis in the liver, while ezetimibe reduces cholesterol absorption in the 
intestine. 
The benefits with Nustendi are its ability to reduce levels of LDL-C but also non-high density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (non-HDL-C), apolipoprotein B (apo B), and total cholesterol (TC) in patients with 
hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia when administered alone and in combination with other 
lipid-modifying medicinal products. The most common side effects are hyperuricaemia and constipation. 
The full indication is:  
“Nustendi is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-
familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
• 
• 
in combination with a statin in patients unable to reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated 
dose of a statin in addition to ezetimibe (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4), 
alone in patients who are either statin-intolerant or for whom a statin is contraindicated, and are 
unable to reach LDL-C goals with ezetimibe alone, 
in patients already being treated with the combination of bempedoic acid and ezetimibe as 
separate tablets with or without statin.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
i *corr 2 April 2020 to remove incorrect atc code 
Nustendi  
EMA/CHMP/44979/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
