22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/164775/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Evkeeza 
evinacumab 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Evkeeza, intended for the treatment of adult and adolescent patients aged 12 years 
and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Regeneron Ireland Designated Activity Company (DAC). 
Evkeeza will be available as concentrate for solution for infusion (150 mg/ml). The active substance of 
Evkeeza is evinacumab, a monoclonal antibody belonging to the therapeutic class of lipid modifying 
agents (ATC code: C10AX). It reduces LDL-C cholesterol (LDL-C) level independent of the presence of the 
LDL receptor by promoting very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) processing and VLDL remnants clearance 
upstream of LDL formation. 
The benefits of Evkeeza are its ability to reduce LDL-C. The most common side effects are 
nasopharyngitis, influenza like illness, dizziness, back pain and nausea.  
The full indication is: 
Evkeeza is indicated as an adjunct to diet and other low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) 
lowering therapies for the treatment of adult and adolescent patients aged 12 years and older 
with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HoFH). 
Evkeeza should be initiated and monitored by physicians experienced in the treatment of lipid disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Evkeeza  
EMA/CHMP/164775/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
