19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/296249/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for hu
man use (CHMP) 
Summary o
f opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Benlysta 
belimumab 
On 19 May 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the me
dicinal product Benlysta, 
120 mg and 400 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended as 
add-on therapy in 
adult patients with active autoantibody-positive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) wi
th a high 
degree of disease activity despite standard therapy. The applicant for this medicin
al product is Glaxo 
Group Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided
 they notify the 
Eur
opean Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Benlysta is belimumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code:
 L04AA26) specific 
for soluble human B Lymphocyte Stimulator protein (BLyS, also referred to a
s BAFF and TNFSF13B). 
Benlysta blocks the binding of soluble BLyS, a B cell survival factor, to its rece
ptors on B cells. Benlysta 
does not bind B cells directly, but by binding BLyS, Benlysta inhibits the surviv
al of B cells, including 
autoreactive B cells, and reduces the differentiation of B cells into immunoglobuli
n-producing plasma 
cells. 
The benefits with Benlysta are its ability to reduce the disease activity as measu
red by three validated 
tools: the SELENA SLEDAI score, Physici
an’s Global Assessment (PGA) and the BILAG index. While the 
effects of belimumab treatment were rather modest in the overall patient popula
tion studied, a 
clinically relevant treatment effect was shown in patients with high disease activity (anti-dsDNA 
antibodies and low levels of C3 and/or C4). The addition of 10 mg/kg belimumab t
o standard SLE 
therapy was generally well tolerated The most common side effects are nausea, diarrhoea, and 
pyrexia. Some patients developed infusion related reactions, some of which were reminiscent of 
hypersensitivity reactions. The mechanism of action of Benlysta could increase the potential risk for the 
development of infections including opportunistic infections. Also, as an immunomodulating drug, a 
potential risk for malignancies cannot be ruled out. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Benlysta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
The approved indication is: add-on therapy in adult patients with active autoanti
body-positive systemic 
lupus erythematosus (SLE) with a high degree of disease activity (e.g. positi
ve anti-dsDNA and low 
complement) despite standard therapy. It is proposed that Benlysta is prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of SLE. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the sum
mary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which
 will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing
 authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Benlysta and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Benlysta  
EMA/CHMP/296249/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
