15 December 2022  
EMA/CHMP/925959/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Imfinzi 
durvalumab 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Imfinzi. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication to include Imfinzi in combination with tremelimumab and platinum-
based chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of adults with metastatic NSCLC with no sensitising EGFR 
mutations or ALK positive mutations. 
For information, the full indications for Imfinzi will be as follows:2 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
IMFINZI as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced, unresectable 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 on ≥ 1% of tumour 
cells and whose disease has not progressed following platinum-based chemoradiation therapy 
(see section 5.1). 
IMFINZI in combination with tremelimumab and platinum-based chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with metastatic NSCLC with no 
sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK positive mutations. 
Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) 
IMFINZI in combination with etoposide and either carboplatin or cisplatin is indicated for the 
first-line treatment of adults with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC). 
Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC) 
IMFINZI in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of 
adults with unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer (BTC). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Imfinzi  
EMA/CHMP/925959/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
