30 March 2023 
EMA/CHMP/130783/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pedmarqsi 
sodium thiosulfate 
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pedmarqsi, 
intended for the prevention of ototoxicity induced by cisplatin chemotherapy in children with solid 
tumours. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Fennec Pharmaceuticals (EU) Limited. 
Pedmarqsi will be available as an 80 mg/ml solution for infusion. The active substance of Pedmarqsi is 
sodium thiosulfate (ATC code not yet assigned), an antidote with a mechanism of action that is not fully 
understood but is thought to include increasing levels of endogenous antioxidants, inhibition of 
intracellular oxidative stress and direct interaction with cisplatin to prevent cisplatin-induced damage to 
cochlear cells and associated hearing loss. 
The benefit of Pedmarqsi is preventing cisplatin-induced hearing loss, as evaluated in a phase 3, 
randomised, open-label study in children with standard-risk hepatoblastoma and treated with cisplatin 
alone or in combination with Pedmarqsi. The most common side effects are vomiting, nausea, 
hypernatraemia, hypophosphataemia and hypokalaemia. 
The full indication is: 
Pedmarqsi is indicated for the prevention of ototoxicity induced by cisplatin chemotherapy in 
patients 1 month to < 18 years of age with localised, non-metastatic, solid tumours. 
Pedmarqsi is intended for hospital use only and must be used under the supervision of an appropriately 
qualified physician. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
