European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/659495/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
GLIVEC 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): imatinib 
On 19 March 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Glivec. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Glivec is indicated for 
• 
the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following resection 
of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. Patients who have a low or very low risk of recurrence should 
not receive adjuvant treatment. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Glivec will be as follows***: 
Glivec is indicated for the treatment of 
• 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) positive 
(Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not 
considered as the first line of treatment. 
adult and paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha 
therapy, or in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
adult patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy. 
adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ ALL as monotherapy. 
adult patients with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD) associated with 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) gene re-arrangements. 
adult patients with advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic 
leukaemia (CEL) with FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement. 
The effect of Glivec on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined. 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
* 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glivec is indicated for 
• 
the treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic 
malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). 
the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following 
resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. Patients who have a low or very low risk of 
recurrence should not receive adjuvant treatment. 
the treatment of adult patients with unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) and 
adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic DFSP who are not eligible for surgery. 
• 
• 
Page 2/2 
 
 
