23 January 2014 
EMA/CHMP/20684/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xolair 
omalizumab 
On 23 January 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Xolair. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria in adult and 
adolescent (12 years and above) patients with inadequate response to H1 antihistamine treatment. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Xolair will be as follows2: 
Allergic asthma 
Xolair is indicated in adults, adolescents and children (6 to <12 years of age). 
Xolair treatment should only be considered for patients with convincing IgE (immunoglobulin E) 
mediated asthma (see section 4.2). 
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy to improve asthma control in patients with severe persistent 
allergic asthma who have a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and who 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
have reduced lung function (FEV1 <80%) as well as frequent daytime symptoms or night-time 
awakenings and who have had multiple documented severe asthma exacerbations despite daily high-
dose inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-agonist. 
Children (6 to <12 years of age) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy to improve asthma control in patients with severe persistent 
allergic asthma who have a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and 
frequent daytime symptoms or night-time awakenings and who have had multiple documented severe 
asthma exacerbations despite daily high-dose inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-
agonist. 
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria in 
adult and adolescent (12 years and above) patients with inadequate response to H1 
antihistamine treatment. 
Xolair 
EMA/CHMP/20684/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
