21 March 2013 
EMA/CHMP/178415/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Iclusig 
Ponatinib 
On 21 March 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Iclusig 
15 mg and 45 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) 
and Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL). Iclusig was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 2 February 2010. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is ARIAD Pharma Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Iclusig is ponatinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE24). It acts by inhibiting 
the BCR-ABL kinase. 
The benefits with Iclusig are its cytogenetic and haematological response rates in patients with CML 
and Ph+ ALL including patients bearing T315I mutation. The most common side effects are platelet 
count decreased, rash, dry skin, and abdominal pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Iclusig will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Iclusig is indicated in adult patients with 
• 
chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) who are 
resistant to dasatinib or nilotinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib or nilotinib and for whom 
subsequent treatment with imatinib is not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I mutation 
• 
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) who are resistant to 
dasatinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib and for whom subsequent treatment with imatinib is 
not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I mutation. 
It is proposed that Iclusig be initiated by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
patients with leukaemia. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Iclusig and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Iclusig 
EMA/CHMP/178415/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
