15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/248091/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Livtencity 
maribavir 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Livtencity2, 
intended for the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and/or disease that is refractory to one or 
more prior therapies. The applicant for this medicinal product is Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG 
Ireland Branch. 
Livtencity will be available as a 200 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Livtencity is maribavir, 
an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AX10). Maribavir inhibits antiviral activity by competitive 
inhibition of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) protein kinase UL97 at the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
binding site to abolish phosphotransferase, thereby interfering with viral DNA replication, encapsidation, 
and nuclear egress. 
The main benefit of Livtencity is its ability to achieve CMV viremia clearance at week 8 without a need for 
alternative anti-CMV therapy or rescue treatment in a higher proportion of patients compared to the 
investigator-assigned anti-CMV therapy, as shown in a phase 3, randomised, open-label, active-controlled 
superiority study in adult transplant recipients with refractory CMV infection. The most common side 
effects are dysgeusia and abdominal complaints. 
The full indication is: 
Livtencity is indicated for the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and/or disease that 
are refractory (with or without resistance) to one or more prior therapies, including ganciclovir, 
valganciclovir, cidofovir or foscarnet in adult patients who have undergone a haematopoietic stem 
cell transplant (HSCT) or solid organ transplant (SOT). 
Livtencity should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management of patients who have 
undergone solid organ transplant or haematopoietic stem cell transplant. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Livtencity  
EMA/CHMP/248091/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
