22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/803701/2014 - correction 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Orbactiv 
oritavancin 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Orbactiv, 
400 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, intended  for the treatment of acute bacterial 
skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is The Medicines Company UK Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Orbactiv is oritavancin, a glycopeptide antibacterial (J01XA05), acting by 
inhibition of bacterial cell wall biosynthesis and disruption of bacterial membrane integrity, leading to 
rapid cell death.   
The benefits with Orbactiv are its ability to effectuate cure of ABSSSI with a single intravenous (IV) 
dose.  In two identical designed pivotal trials (SOLO 1 and SOLO 2), oritavancin showed non-inferiority 
versus vancomycin comparator, for early clinical response (cessation of spread or reduction in size of 
the lesion) and clinical cure rates. The most common side effects are nausea, hypersensitivity 
reactions, infusion site reactions, and headache.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Orbactiv will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. The 
approved indication is:  
“Orbactiv is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in 
adults. (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Orbactiv and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Orbactiv 
EMA/CHMP/803701/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
