26 April 2018 
EMA/CHMP/199029/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dzuveo 
sufentanil 
On 26 April 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dzuveo, 
intended for the treatment of pain. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service 
GmbH. 
Dzuveo will be available as 30-microgram sublingual tablets. The active substance of Dzuveo is 
sufentanil, an opioid (ATC code: N01AH03) which produces analgesia by activating µ-opioid receptors 
primarily within the central nervous system. 
The benefits with Dzuveo are its ability to reduce pain. The most common side effects are nausea, 
vomiting and pyrexia.  
Dzuveo is a hybrid medicine2 of Sufenta which has been authorised in the EU since 1978. Dzuveo 
contains the same active substance as Sufenta, but is given in a different way.  
The full indication is: "Dzuveo is indicated for the management of acute moderate to severe pain in adult 
patients". 
Dzuveo should only be administered by healthcare professionals who are experienced in the management 
of opioid therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
