28 June 2018 
EMA/CHMP/442334/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Opdivo. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with melanoma with 
involvement of lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection (see 
section 5.1).” 
For information, the full indication for Opdivo will be as follows:2 
“Melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with 
melanoma with involvement of lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone 
complete resection (see section 5.1). 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults. 
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and treatment with 
brentuximab vedotin.  
Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck (SCCHN) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell 
cancer of the head and neck in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Urothelial Carcinoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/442334/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
