26 January 2017  
EMA/CHMP/32752/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xeljanz 
tofacitinib 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xeljanz, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer 
Limited. 
Xeljanz will be available as 5-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Xeljanz is tofacitinib, a 
selective inhibitor of the Janus kinases (JAK) family (ATC code: L04AA29). Janus kinases are enzymes 
that transduce intracellular signals from cell surface receptors for a number of cytokines and growth 
factors. Tofacitinib preferentially inhibits JAK1 and JAK3 leading to an attenuation of signalling of 
interleukins (IL-2, -4, -6, -7, -9, -15, -21) and type I and type II interferons, which will result in 
modulation of the immune and inflammatory response. 
The benefits with Xeljanz are its ability to reduce the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and to 
improve physical function. Xeljanz has the potential to slow the progression of joint damage in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis. The most common side effects are headache, upper respiratory tract infections, 
nasopharyngitis, diarrhoea, nausea and hypertension. 
The full indication is: 
"XELJANZ in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to 
one or more disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs. XELJANZ can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to MTX or when treatment with MTX is inappropriate (see Sections 4.4, 4.5)."  
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
