21 April 2017  
EMA/221561/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Febuxostat Mylan 
febuxostat 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Febuxostat 
Mylan, intended for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Febuxostat Mylan will be available as 80 mg and 120 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Febuxostat Mylan is febuxostat, an antigout preparation (ATC code: M04AA03). Febuxostat decreases 
serum uric acid by selectively inhibiting xanthine oxidase. 
Febuxostat Mylan is a generic of Adenuric, which has been authorised in the EU since 21 April 2008. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Febuxostat Mylan and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Adenuric. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Febuxostat Mylan is indicated for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where 
urate deposition has already occurred (including a history, or presence of, tophus and/or gouty 
arthritis). 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult 
patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of 
Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS). 
Febuxostat Mylan is indicated in adults.”  
The 80-mg tablets are only to be use for treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia, while the 120-mg tablets 
are for both treatment and prevention. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
