23 June 2011 
EMA/CHMP/438483/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinionF
1
F (initial authorisation) 
Buccolam 
midazolam 
On 23 June 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a PUMA, a paediatric use marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Buccolam, 2.5 mg/0.5 ml; 5 mg/1 ml; 7.5 mg/1.5 ml; 10 mg/2ml, oromucosal 
solution intended for treatment of acute seizures in children. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
ViroPharma SPRL. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Buccolam is midazolam, a benzodiazepine derivative. Midazolam has an 
anticonvulsant effect. It also exerts a sedative and sleep-inducing effect of pronounced intensity, and 
an anxiolytic and a muscle-relaxant effect. 
The benefit with Buccolam is its ability to stop a prolonged, convulsive, seizure in a new dosage form 
developed for buccal use in children. The most common side effects are respiratory depression, 
sedation, somnolence, depressed levels of consciousness, nausea and vomiting. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Buccolam will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Treatment of prolonged, acute, convulsive seizures in infants, toddlers, children and adolescents (from 
3 months to < 18 years). 
Buccolam must only be used by parents/carers where the patient has been diagnosed to have epilepsy. 
For infants between 3-6 months of age treatment should be in a hospital setting where monitoring is 
possible and resuscitation equipment is available. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Buccolam and therefore recommends the granting of the PUMA, 
a paediatric use marketing authorisation. 
Buccolam 
EMA/CHMP/438483/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
