28 June 2018 
EMA/CHMP/383566/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mepsevii 
vestronidase alfa 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Mepsevii, intended for the treatment of mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. Mepsevii was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 21 March 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH. 
Mepsevii will be available as 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Mepsevii is vestronidase alfa, a recombinant form of human beta-glucuronidase (ATC code: 
A16AB18). Mepsevii is an enzyme replacement therapy intended to provide or supplement beta-
glucuronidase, an enzyme that helps with the degradation of glycosaminoglycans and thus 
prevents their accumulation in various tissues in the body.  
The benefits with Mepsevii are its ability to reduce glycosaminoglycan levels in the body. The most 
common side effects are anaphylactoid reaction, urticaria and infusion site swelling. 
The full indication is:  
"Mepsevii is indicated for the treatment of non-neurological manifestations of 
Mucopolysaccharidosis VII (MPS VII; Sly syndrome).”  
It is proposed that treatment with Mepsevii should be supervised by a healthcare professional 
experienced in the management of patients with MPS VII or other inherited metabolic disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
