26 January 2017  
EMA/CHMP/35623/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revlimid 
lenalidomide 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Revlimid. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe Limited. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication as follows: 
“Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell transplantation.” 
For information, the full indications for Revlimid will be as follows2: 
“Multiple myeloma 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients 
with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell 
transplantation. 
Revlimid as combination therapy (see section 4.2) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. 
Revlimid in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma 
in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. 
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with transfusion-
dependent anaemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes associated 
with an isolated deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality when other therapeutic options are 
insufficient or inadequate. 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
refractory mantle cell lymphoma (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Revlimid  
EMA/CHMP/35623/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
