22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/42526/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Jakavi 
ruxolitinib 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Jakavi. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Polycythaemia vera (PV) 
Jakavi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with polycythaemia vera who are resistant to or 
intolerant of hydroxyurea.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Jakavi will be as follows2: 
“Myelofibrosis (MF) 
Jakavi is indicated for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients 
with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis), post polycythaemia vera 
myelofibrosis or post essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis. 
Polycythaemia vera (PV) 
Jakavi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with polycythaemia vera who are 
resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
