15 November 2018 
EMA/CHMP/777751/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris 
macimorelin 
On 15 November 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Macimorelin 
Aeterna Zentaris intended for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency in adults. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Aeterna Zentaris GmbH. 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris will be available as 60 mg granules for oral solution. The active substance of 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is macimorelin, a peptide mimetic with growth hormone secretagogue activity 
similar to ghrelin (ATC code: V04CD06). Macimorelin stimulates growth hormone release by activating 
growth hormone secretagogue receptors present in the pituitary and hypothalamus. 
The benefit with Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is its ability to confirm diagnosis of growth hormone 
deficiency with high sensitivity and specificity in adult patients. The most common side effects are 
dysgeusia, dizziness, headache, fatigue, feeling hot, nausea and diarrhoea.  
The full indication is:  
"This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris is indicated for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in adults 
(see section 5.1)."  
It is proposed that the use of Macimorelin Aeterna Zentaris be supervised by a physician or healthcare 
professional experienced in diagnosing growth hormone deficiency 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
