16 December 2021  
EMA/CHMP/697130/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Kineret 
anakinra 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Kineret. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ). 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adult patients 
with pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen (low- or high-flow oxygen) who are at risk of 
progressing to severe respiratory failure determined by plasma concentration of soluble 
urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) ≥ 6ng/ml (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Kineret will be as follows: 
Kineret is indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of RA in combination 
with methotrexate, with an inadequate response to methotrexate alone. 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adult patients 
with pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen (low- or high-flow oxygen) who are at risk of 
progressing to severe respiratory failure determined by plasma concentration of soluble 
urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) ≥ 6ng/ml (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of the following autoinflammatory periodic fever 
syndromes in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a body 
weight of 10 kg or above: 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of CAPS, including: 
- Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) 
- Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). Kineret should be 
given in combination with colchicine, if appropriate. 
Kineret is indicated in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a 
body weight of 10 kg or above for the treatment of Still’s disease, including Systemic Juvenile 
Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD), with active systemic features 
of moderate to high disease activity, or in patients with continued disease activity after 
treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or glucocorticoids. 
Kineret can be given as monotherapy or in combination with other anti-inflammatory drugs and 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Kineret  
EMA/CHMP/697130/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
