European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/552332/2008  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PREZISTA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): darunavir 
On  23  October  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Prezista. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International NV. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
Prezista,  co-administered  with  100 mg  ritonavir  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV-1)  infection  in 
treatment-experienced adult patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Prezista will be as follows***: 
Prezista,  co-administered  with  100 mg  ritonavir  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV-1)  infection  in 
treatment-experienced adult patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated. 
In  deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  Prezista  co-administered  with  100 mg  ritonavir  careful 
consideration  should  be  given  to  the  treatment  history  of  the  individual  patient  and  the  patterns  of 
mutations  associated  with  different  agents.  Genotypic  or  phenotypic  testing  (when  available)  and 
treatment history should guide the use of Prezista. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
