14 September 2023 
EMA/CHMP/343776/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Olumiant 
baricitinib 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Olumiant. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication to include the treatment of paediatric patients 
from 2 years of age and older with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. For information, the full 
indications for Olumiant will be as follows2: 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in 
adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more 
disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs. Olumiant may be used as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate. 
Atopic Dermatitis 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adult and 
paediatric patients 2 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Alopecia Areata 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adult patients. 
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of active juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years 
of age and older who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more prior 
conventional synthetic or biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs): 
- Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular rheumatoid factor positive [RF+] or 
negative [RF-], extended oligoarticular), 
- Enthesitis related arthritis, and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Juvenile psoriatic arthritis. 
Baricitinib may be used as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Olumiant  
EMA/CHMP/343776/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
