22 June 2017  
EMA/CHMP/387395/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan S.A.S. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan contains as active substances the antiretrovirals 
efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil (ATC code: J05AR06). The medicine will be available as 
film-coated tablets (600 mg/200 mg/245 mg). Efavirenz is a non-competitive inhibitor of HIV reverse 
transcriptase while emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil are substrates and competitive inhibitors of HIV 
reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA chain, resulting in 
chain termination. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a generic of Atripla which has been authorised in the 
EU since 13 December 2007. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Atripla 
A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a fixed-dose combination of efavirenz, emtricitabine 
and tenofovir disoproxil. It is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) 
infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 
copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than three months. Patients must 
not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to 
have harboured virus strains with mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three 
components contained in Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan prior to initiation of their first 
antiretroviral treatment regimen". 
It is proposed that Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/387395/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
