16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/338054/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Qinlock 
ripretinib 
On 16 September  2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Qinlock 2, 
intended for the treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) in patients who have 
received prior treatment with three or more  kinase inhibitors. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Deciphera Pharmaceuticals (Netherlands) B.V. 
Qinlock will be available as 50 mg tablets. The active substance of Qinlock is ripretinib,  an antineoplastic 
agent and protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX19). Qinlock is designed to selectively block the 
oncogenic KIT  and PDGFRA kinases by blocking their active conformation. 
The benefits of Qinlock are its ability to prolong the time until disease progression in patients with GIST. 
The most common side effects are fatigue, alopecia, nausea, myalgia, constipation, diarrhoea, palmar-
plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome, weight loss and vomiting. 
The full indication is: 
Qinlock is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumour (GIST) who have received prior treatment with three or more kinase inhibitors, including 
imatinib. 
Qinlock should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of anticancer therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report  (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of  positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days f rom adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the inf ormation available to 
date to determine if  the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
