10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/668777/2020  
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Plavix 
clopidogrel 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Plavix. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is sanofi-aventis groupe. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
In patients with moderate to high-risk Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) or minor Ischemic Stroke 
(IS) 
Clopidogrel in combination with ASA is indicated in: 
•  Adult patients with moderate to high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) or minor IS (NIHSS ≤3) 
within 24 hours of either the TIA or IS event.  
For information, the full indications for Plavix will now be: 
Secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events 
Clopidogrel is indicated in: 
•  Adult patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), 
ischemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial 
disease. 
•  Adult patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
−  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
−  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with moderate to high-risk Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) or minor Ischemic Stroke 
(IS) 
Clopidogrel in combination with ASA is indicated in: 
•  Adult patients with moderate to high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) or minor IS (NIHSS ≤3) 
within 24 hours of either the TIA or IS event.   
Prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation 
In adult patients with atrial fibrillation who have at least one risk factor for vascular events, are 
not suitable for treatment with Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) and who have a low bleeding risk, 
clopidogrel is indicated in combination with ASA for the prevention of atherothrombotic and 
thromboembolic events, including stroke. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Plavix  
EMA/CHMP/668777/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
