17 March 2011 
EMA/CHMP/207702/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Herceptin 
trastuzumab 
On 17 March 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Herceptin. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“… 
Early Breast Cancer (EBC) 
Herceptin is indicated for the treatment of patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer: 
… 
- 
- 
…” 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination with 
paclitaxel or docetaxel. 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
For information, the full indications for Herceptin will be as follows2: 
Breast Cancer 
Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) 
Herceptin is indicated for the treatment of patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer: 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two chemotherapy 
regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at least an 
anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. Hormone receptor 
positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these 
treatments. 
• 
in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
− 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
• 
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
− 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients with 
−  hormone-receptor positive metastatic breast cancer, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
Early Breast Cancer (EBC) 
Herceptin is indicated for the treatment of patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer: 
• 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) (see 
section 5.1). 
• 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in 
combination withpaclitaxel or docetaxel. 
• 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
−  Herceptin should only be used in patients with metastatic or early breast cancer whose 
tumours have either HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an 
accurate and validated assay (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Metastatic Gastric Cancer (MGC) 
Herceptin in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the 
treatment of patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or 
gastroesophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic 
disease. 
Herceptin should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer whose tumours have HER2 
overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ result. 
Accurate and validated assay methods should be used (see Sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
Herceptin  
EMA/CHMP/207702/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
