15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/916178/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hemgenix 
etranacogene dezaparvovec 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Hemgenix3, intended for the treatment of severe and moderately severe Haemophilia B. As Hemgenix is 
an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an assessment by the 
Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is CSL Behring GmbH. 
Hemgenix will be available as 1 x 10¹³ genome copies/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Hemgenix is etranacogene dezaparvovec (ATC code: B06). Etranacogene dezaparvovec is a 
recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 5 (AAV5)-based gene therapy vector that expresses a 
version of the Padua variant of human factor IX under the control of a liver-specific promoter. The 
expressed factor IX replaces the missing coagulation factor IX required for proper coagulation of the 
patient’s blood.  
The benefits of Hemgenix are the induction of relevant plasma levels of factor IX and the reduction of 
bleeding episodes. In the clinical trial presented, most patients treated with Hemgenix had a significant 
increase in factor IX activity levels and experienced less bleedings than before the treatment on standard 
FIX prophylaxis. Most patients no longer needed Factor IX replacement therapy up to two years after the 
administration. The most common side effects with Hemgenix are headache, hepatic laboratory 
abnormalities (increased ALT and AST) and flu-like illness. 
The full indication is: 
Hemgenix is indicated for the treatment of severe and moderately severe Haemophilia B 
(congenital Factor IX deficiency) in adult patients without a history of Factor IX inhibitors. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Hemgenix should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of Haemophilia and/or bleeding disorders. This medicinal product should be administered in a 
setting where personnel and equipment are immediately available to treat infusion-related reactions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Hemgenix  
EMA/CHMP/916178/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
