28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/251510/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zercepac 
trastuzumab 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zercepac, intended for 
the treatment of breast and gastric cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare 
S.L.U. 
Zercepac will be available as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (150 mg). The active substance 
of Zercepac is trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC03) that binds with high affinity and 
specificity to HER2, inhibiting proliferation of tumour cells that overexpress HER2.  
Zercepac is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Herceptin 
(trastuzumab), which was authorised in the EU on 28 August 2000. Data show that Zercepac has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Herceptin (trastuzumab). More information on biosimilar 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Metastatic breast cancer 
Zercepac is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC): 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two 
chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have 
included at least an anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these 
treatments. Hormone receptor positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, 
unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
• 
in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
• 
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients 
with  hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
Early breast cancer 
Zercepac is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer 
(EBC). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) 
(see  section 5.1). 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination 
with  paclitaxel or docetaxel. 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant Zercepac therapy, for 
locally advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter (see 
sections  4.4 and 5.1). 
Zercepac should only be used in patients with metastatic or early breast cancer whose tumours have 
either HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated 
assay (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Zercepac in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or 
gastro-oesophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic 
disease. 
Zercepac should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours have 
HER2 overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ 
result. Accurate and validated assay methods should be used (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
It is proposed that Zercepac be prescribed by a physician experienced in the administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy and should be administered by a healthcare professional only.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Zercepac  
EMA/CHMP/251510/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
