15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/734156/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pyrukynd 
mitapivat 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pyrukynd2, 
intended for the treatment of an inherited condition called pyruvate kinase deficiency. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Agios Netherlands B.V. 
Pyrukynd will be available as 5 mg + 20 mg, 5 mg, 20 mg, 20 mg + 50 mg and 50 mg film-coated 
tablets. The active substance of Pyrukynd is mitapivat, a pyruvate kinase activator (ATC code: B06AX04). 
Pyrukynd works by binding to the enzyme pyruvate kinase, thus stabilising the defective enzyme and 
helping it work better. This results in a reduction in disease symptoms.  
The benefits of Pyrukynd are an increased haemoglobin concentration, as observed in a randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study in adult patients who were not regularly transfused, 
and a reduction in the number of transfusions required, as observed in a phase 3, single-arm, open-label 
study in adult patients who were regularly transfused. The most common side effect is insomnia.  
The full indication is: 
Pyrukynd is indicated for the treatment of pyruvate kinase deficiency (PK deficiency) in adult 
patients (see section 4.4).  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
