19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/488493/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora 
lidocaine/prilocaine 
On  19  September  2013,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Lidocaine/Prilocaine  Plethora,  150  mg/ml  +  50  mg/ml,  cutaneous  spray,  solution,  intended  for  the 
treatment of of primary premature ejaculation in adult men. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Plethora Solutions Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora are lidocaine and prilocaine, local anaesthetics 
that act by blocking the transmission of nerve impulses in the head (glans) of the penis. This reduces 
stimulation and helps delay ejaculation time and allow satisfactory sexual activity. The medicine will be 
available as a cutaneous spray solution containing 150 mg of lidocaine and 50 mg prilocaine per ml. It 
will only be obtained with a doctor’s prescription. 
The CHMP decided that the benefits of the medicine were greater than its risks after assessing data on 
quality, safety and efficacy, including clinical trials where Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora was compared 
with placebo (a dummy treatment) in the general population of adult men with premature ejaculation. 
Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora was shown to provide an improvement in ejaculatory control during 
sexual intercourse, sexual satisfaction and reduction in distress related to ejaculation, and to increase 
the time to ejaculation (intravaginal ejaculatory latency time) from 0.58 to 3.17 minutes, and from 
0.56 to 0.94 minutes in the placebo group. The most common side effects in both men and women 
were hypoasthesia (lack of sensation) and genital burning sensation, and in men erectile dysfunction 
and for female sexual partners headache, influenza, nasopharyngitis and vulvovaginal discomfort. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lidocaine/Prilocaine Plethora 
EMA/CHMP/488493/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
