20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/604998/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Constella 
linaclotide 
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Constella, 290 micrograms, hard capsules intended for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to 
severe irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Almirall, S.A. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Constella is linaclotide. The ATC code is not yet assigned. 
Linaclotide is a Guanylate Cyclase-C receptor agonist (GCCA) with visceral analgesic and secretory 
activities. The benefits with Constella are its ability to reduce visceral pain and relieve constipation. 
The most common side effect is diarrhoea. A pharmacovigilance plan for Constella will be implemented 
as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Constella is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to 
severe irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults".  It is proposed that Constella be 
prescribed by physicians. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Constella and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
