12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/662007/2019 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Recarbrio 
imipenem / cilastatin / relebactam 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Recarbrio, 
intended for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in adults with limited 
treatment options. The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The active substances of Recarbrio are imipenem, cilastatin and relebactam. It will be available as a 
500 mg/500 mg/250 mg powder for solution for infusion. It is a fixed-dose combination (ATC code: 
J01DH56) of: a carbapenem antibacterial agent that inhibits the formation of peptidoglycan (an important 
component of the bacterial cell wall); a renal dehydropeptidase inhibitor that limits the renal metabolism of 
the carbapenem; and a novel beta-lactamase inhibitor that prevents certain classes of beta-lactamases 
(classes A and C, but not classes B and D) from hydrolysing the carbapenem, thereby restoring its 
antibacterial activity against certain resistant bacteria. 
The benefits with Recarbrio are its ability to treat the above-mentioned infections effectively. The most 
common side effect is diarrhoea. 
The full indication is: 
“Recarbrio is indicated for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in adults with 
limited treatment options (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
It is proposed that Recarbrio be prescribed only after consultation with a physician with appropriate 
experience in the management of infectious diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
