11 November 2021 
EMA/CHMP/639299/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Wegovy 
semaglutide 
On 11 November 2021,  the Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Wegovy, 
intended for the treatment of people with  obesity or who are overweight in the presence of other related 
conditions. 
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
Wegovy will be available as 0.25  mg, 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 1.7  mg and 2.4 mg solutions for injection.  The active 
substance of Wegovy is semaglutide, a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue (ATC code: A10BJ06). 
The mechanism by which semaglutide treatment results in weight loss is not entirely understood, but 
among other functions,  GLP-1 appears to regulate appetite  by increasing feelings of satiety and fullness 
while lowering feelings of hunger and reducing energy intake.  
The benefit of Wegovy is its  clinically relevant effect on weight loss when used in combination with  a 
reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity for weight  management in people with obesity or who 
are overweight in the presence of other related conditions. The most common side effects are 
gastrointestinal side effects, including  nausea, diarrhoea, constipation  and vomiting. 
The full indication is: 
Wegovy is indicated as an adjunct to  a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity for 
weight  management, including weight  loss and weight  maintenance, in adults with  an initial Body 
Mass Index (BMI) of  
• 
• 
≥30 kg/m2 (obesity), or  
≥27 kg/m2 to  <30 kg/m2 (overweight) in the  presence of at least one weight-related 
comorbidity e.g. dysglycaemia (prediabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus), hypertension, 
dyslipidaemia, obstructive sleep apnoea or cardiovascular disease. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
Wegovy  
EMA/CHMP/639299/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
