10 November 2022 
EMA/CHMP/855683/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sugammadex Amomed 
sugammadex 
On 10 November 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sugammadex 
Amomed, intended for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium in adults and children 
or vecuronium in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals GmbH. 
Sugammadex  Amomed  will  be  available  as  a  100  mg/ml  solution  for  injection.  The  active  substance  of 
Sugammadex  Amomed  is  sugammadex,  an  antidote  (ATC  code:  V03AB35).  Sugammadex  is  a  selective 
relaxant-binding  agent  which  forms  a  complex  with  the  muscle  relaxants  rocuronium  and  vecuronium, 
thereby reducing their ability to exert an effect. This results in the reversal of neuromuscular blockade and 
allows the muscles to resume normal function. 
Sugammadex Amomed is a generic of Bridion, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 July 2008. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sugammadex Amomed. Since Sugammadex Amomed 
is  administered  intravenously  and  is  100%  bioavailable,  a  bioequivalence  study  versus  the  reference 
product  Bridion  was  not  required.  A  question  and  answer  document  on  generic  medicines  can  be  found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
Reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium in adults.  
For  the  paediatric  population:  sugammadex  is  only  recommended  for  routine  reversal  of 
rocuronium induced blockade in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years.  
Sugammadex Amomed should only be administered by, or under the supervision of an anaesthetist. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the European Commission. 
Sugammadex Amomed  
EMA/CHMP/855683/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
