25 March 2021 
EMA/CHMP/84697/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Copiktra 
duvelisib 
On 25 March 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Copiktra, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  
(CLL) and refractory follicular lymphoma (FL). The applicant for this medicinal product is Verastem Europe 
GmbH. 
Copiktra will be available as 15-mg and 25-mg hard capsules. The active substance of Copiktra is 
duvelisib, an anti-neoplastic agent (ATC code: L01EM04) which acts by inhibiting phosphatidylinositol 3-
kinase p110δ (PI3K-δ) and PI3K-γ. These enzymes are involved in the proliferation and survival of 
malignant B-cell lines and primary CLL tumour cells, and in immunological pathways in the tumour 
microenvironment of malignant B cells. 
The benefits of Copiktra are that it prolongs the survival time without any progression of the disease as 
compared to ofatumumab in patients with CLL who have received 2 or more prior lines of treatment and 
induces tumour responses in patients with FL who have received 2 or more prior treatments. The most 
common side effects are respiratory tract infections, neutropenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, headache, 
dyspnoea, cough, decreased appetite diarrhoea/colitis, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, constipation, 
rash, musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia, pyrexia, fatigue and increased transaminases.  
The full indication is the treatment of adult patents with:  
•  Relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) after at least two prior therapies. 
(see SmPC section 4.4.and 5.1). 
• 
Follicular lymphoma (FL) that is refractory to at least two prior systemic therapies (see SmPC 
section 4.4.and 5.1). 
Copiktra should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Copiktra  
EMA/CHMP/84697/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
