21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/623061/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lupkynis 
voclosporin 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lupkynis, 
intended for the treatment of lupus nephritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Otsuka 
Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Lupkynis will be available as a 7.9 mg soft capsule. The active substance of Lupkynis is voclosporin, an 
immunosuppressants (ATC code: L04AD03). Voclosporin is a calcineurin-inhibitor which inhibits 
lymphocyte proliferation, T-cell cytokine production and expression of T-cell activation surface antigens. 
The benefit of Lupkynis is the achievement of a renal response, as evaluated in a phase 3, prospective, 
randomised, double-blind, study comparing twice daily voclosporin with placebo over a 52-week 
treatment period. The most common side effects are decreased eGFR and hypertension.  
The full indication is: 
Lupkynis is indicated in combination with mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of adult 
patients with active class III, IV or V (including mixed class III/V and IV/V) lupus nephritis (LN). 
Lupkynis treatment should be initiated and supervised by a qualified physician experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of lupus nephritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
