24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/336023/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bimzelx 
bimekizumab 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bimzelx, 
intended for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is UCB Pharma S.A. 
Bimzelx will be available as a 160 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Bimzelx is 
bimekizumab, a recombinant humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L04AC21) that works by 
inhibiting interleukin (IL)-17A and IL-17F signalling. 
The benefits of Bimzelx are its ability to improve the skin condition as measured by improvements in the 
Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) 0/1 and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 90 (PASI 90) response 
and to reduce itching, pain and scaling of the skin in patients with plaque psoriasis. The most common 
side effects are upper respiratory tract infections and oral candidiasis. 
The full indication is: 
Bimzelx is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are 
candidates for systemic therapy. 
Bimzelx should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of plaque psoriasis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
