22 July 2010 
EMA/CHMP/439259/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Myclausen 
Mycophenolate mofetil 
On 22 July 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Myclausen, 
500 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the prophylaxis of acute transplant rejection in patients 
receiving allogeneic renal, cardiac or hepatic transplants in combination with ciclosporin and 
corticosteroids. The applicant for this medicinal product is Herbert J. Passauer GmbH & Co. KG. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Myclausen is mycophenolate mofetil, an immunosuppressive agents 
(L04AA06). It is a selective, noncompetitive and reversible inhibitor of inosine monophosphate 
dehydrogenase, resulting in a potent inhibition of guanosine nucleotide synthesis, and therefore 
exhibits a potent cytostatic effect on lymphocytes. 
Myclausen is a generic of CellCept, which has been authorised in the EU since 14 February 1996. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Myclausen, and its bioequivalence with the 
reference product CellCept. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Myclausen will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “in combination with ciclosporin and corticosteroids for the prophylaxis of 
acute transplant rejection in patients receiving allogeneic renal, cardiac or hepatic transplants”. It is 
proposed that treatment with Myclausen should be initiated and maintained by appropriately qualified 
transplant specialists.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Myclausen and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Myclausen  
EMA/CHMP/439259/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
