21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/644929/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tecvayli 
teclistamab 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tecvayli3, intended for treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, who 
have received at least three prior therapies.  
Tecvayli was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Tecvayli will be available as 10 mg/ml and 90 mg/ml solutions for injection. The active substance of 
Tecvayli is teclistamab, a bispecific antibody that targets the CD3 receptor expressed on the surface of 
T cells and B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), which is expressed on the surface of malignant multiple 
myeloma B-lineage cells. 
The benefit of Tecvayli is its ability to bring about a response in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma. The most common side effects are hypogammaglobulinaemia, cytokine release 
syndrome and neutropenia.  
The full indication is:  
Tecvayli is is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least three prior therapies, including an 
immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 antibody and have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Tecvayli should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple 
myeloma. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tecvayli  
EMA/CHMP/644929/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
