13 October 2016  
EMA/CHMP/561089/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Venclyxto 
venetoclax 
On 13 October 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Venclyxto, intended for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Venclyxto was designated as 
an orphan medicinal product on 6 December 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd. 
Venclyxto will be available as 10-mg, 50-mg and 100-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Venclyxto is venetoclax, an antineoplastic agent, which acts by inhibiting BCL-2 (B cell lymphoma-2), an 
anti-apoptotic protein overexpressed by B-cells in CLL, thus inducing tumour cell apoptosis. 
The benefits shown in single arm studies with Venclyxto are its ability to produce responses in patients 
unsuitable for or refractory to B-cell receptor pathway inhibitors and other anticancer medicines.   The most 
common side effects are neutropenia / neutrophil count decreased, diarrhoea, nausea, anaemia, upper 
respiratory tract infection, fatigue, hyperphosphataemia, vomiting, and constipation.  
The full indication is: “Venclyxto monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL) in the presence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation in adult patients who are unsuitable for or 
have failed a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor. Venclyxto monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of CLL 
in the absence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation in adult patients who have failed both 
chemoimmunotherapy and a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor." 
It is proposed that Venclyxto be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of CLL and the use of 
anticancer medicines.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
