24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/347888/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Forxiga 
dapagliflozin 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Forxiga. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of chronic kidney disease.  
For information, the full indications for Forxiga will be as follows: 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise 
• 
• 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. 
For study results with respect to combination of therapies, effects on glycaemic control, 
cardiovascular and renal events, and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of insufficiently controlled type 1 diabetes mellitus as 
an adjunct to insulin in patients with BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2, when insulin alone does not provide adequate 
glycaemic control despite optimal insulin therapy. 
Heart failure 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced 
ejection fraction. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Forxiga is indicated in adults for the treatment of chronic kidney disease.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Forxiga  
EMA/CHMP/347888/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
