15 September 2022  
EMA/CHMP/760015/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Yescarta 
axicabtagene ciloleucel 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Yescarta. As Yescarta is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on 
an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT). The marketing authorisation holder for 
this medicinal product is Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication for the treatment of diffuse large cell 
lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL). 
For information, the full indications for Yescarta will be as follows2: 
Yescarta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma (DLBCL) and high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBL) that relapses within 
12 months from completion of, or is refractory to, first-line chemoimmunotherapy.  
Yescarta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) DLBCL 
and primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), after two or more lines of systemic 
therapy.  
Yescarta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with r/r follicular lymphoma (FL) after 
three or more lines of systemic therapy.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR) and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
