European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/765467/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
DUOCOVER 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid   
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
DuoCover,  75  mg  clopidogrel/75  mg  acetylsalicylic  acid,  75mg  clopidogrel/100  mg  acetylsalicylic 
acid,  film  coated  tablets  intended  for  prevention  of  atherothrombotic  events  in  adult  patients  with 
acute coronary syndrome who are already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
DuoCover is a new fixed combination and its active substances are clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate and 
acetylsalicylic acid. It is a medicinal product belonging to the group of Platelet aggregation inhibitors 
excl.  heparin  (ATC  Code  B01AC30).  Clopidogrel  selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of  adenosine 
diphosphate  (ADP)  to  its  platelet  receptor  and  the  subsequent  ADP-mediated  activation  of  the 
glycoprotein  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation.  ASA  inhibits  platelet 
aggregation  by  irreversible  inhibition  of  prostaglandin  cyclo-oxygenase  and  thus  inhibits  the 
generation  of  thromboxane  A2,  an  inducer  of  platelet  aggregation  and  vasoconstriction;  this  effect 
lasts for the life of the platelet.  
The benefit with DuoCover is its simplification of treatment, i.e.  patients need to take one instead of 
two tablets.  The most common side effect is bleeding.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for DuoCover as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Prevention  of  atherothrombotic  events  in  adult  patients  already  taking 
both  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA).  DuoCover  is  a  fixed-dose  combination  product  for 
continuation of therapy in:  
• 
Non-ST  segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous 
coronary intervention 
ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  in  medically  treated  patients  eligible  for 
thrombolytic therapy.” 
• 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of 
the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  DuoCover  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
