17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/476199/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Exparel 
bupivacaine 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Exparel, 
intended for the treatment of post-operative pain. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pacira 
Ireland Limited. 
Exparel will be available as 133 mg/10 mL and 266 mg/20 mL dispersion for injection. The active 
substance of Exparel is bupivacaine, a local anaesthetic (ATC code: N01BB01) that blocks the generation 
and conduction of nerve impulses. 
The benefits with Exparel are its ability to reduce post-operative pain. The most common side effects are 
dysgeusia and oral hypoaesthesia. 
The full indication is:  
Exparel is indicated as a brachial plexus block or femoral nerve block for treatment of post-
operative pain in adults, and as a field block for treatment of somatic post-operative pain from 
small- to medium-sized surgical wounds in adults (see section 5.1).  
Exparel should be administered in a setting where trained personnel and appropriate equipment 
are available. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
