26 March 2020 
EMA/CHMP/116569/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pretomanid FGK 
pretomanid 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pretomanid FGK2, intended for the treatment of tuberculosis, in combination with bedaquiline and 
linezolid. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service GmbH. 
Pretomanid FGK will be available as 200-mg tablets. The active substance of Pretomanid FGK is 
pretomanid, an antimycobacterial (ATC code: not yet assigned). Its activity is thought to involve 
inhibition of the synthesis of cell wall lipids under aerobic conditions and generation of reactive nitrogen 
species under anaerobic conditions. 
The benefits with Pretomanid FGK, given for 6 months with bedaquiline and linezolid, are its ability to 
produce favourable outcomes in patients with difficult-to treat-infection. The most common side effects 
noted are peripheral neuropathy, nausea, anemia, vomiting, headache, dyspepsia, acneiform dermatitis, 
decreased appetite, increased transaminases and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase, rash, pruritus, 
abdominal pain, musculoskeletal pain and hyperamylasaemia. 
The full indication is:  
Pretomanid FGK is indicated in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid, in adults, for the 
treatment of pulmonary extensively drug resistant (XDR), or treatment-intolerant or 
nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB), see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1.  
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. 
Pretomanid FGK should be started and monitored by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
tuberculosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Pretomanid FGK  
EMA/CHMP/116569/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
