20 March 2014 
EMA/CHMP/157961/2014 – Corr(*) 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jardiance 
empagliflozin 
On 20 March 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Jardiance, 
10 mg and 25 mg film-coated tablets, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
The active substance of Jardiance is empagliflozin, a blood glucose lowering agent, ATC code: 
A10BX12. Empagliflozin works by blocking a protein in the kidney called the human sodium-glucose 
co-transporter-2 (SGLT2). This reduces glucose re-absorption in the kidney leading to glucose 
excretion in the urine, thereby lowering levels of glucose in the blood of patients with type 2 diabetes. 
The benefits with Jardiance are its ability to improve glycaemic control. The most common side effects 
are hypoglycaemia (when used with sulphonylurea or insulin), genital and urinary tract infections, 
pruritus and increased urination. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Jardiance will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control in adults as: 
Monotherapy 
When diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control in patients for whom use of 
metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Add-on combination therapy 
In combination with other glucose–lowering medicinal products including insulin, when these, together 
with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for 
available data on different combinations)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Jardiance and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
(*) The correction concerns the deletion of the following sentence “It is proposed that Jardiance be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of type 2 diabetes”.  
Jardiance 
EMA/CHMP/157961/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
