22 September 2011
EMA/CHMP/736674/2011
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Eviplera
emtricitabine / rilpivirine / tenofovir disoproxil
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Eviplera, 200 mg of emtricitabine, 25 mg of rilpivirine (as hydrochloride) and 245 mg of tenofovir 
disoproxil (as fumarate) film-coated tablet, intended for the treatment of human immunodeficiency 
virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences International Ltd. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.
Eviplera is a fixed dose combination of the active substances emtricitabine, rilpivirine (as 
hydrochloride) and tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate), a combination of antivirals for treatment of HIV 
infections (J05AR08). All three substances act by inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase, an enzyme 
needed for replication of the virus; rilpivirine hydrochloride is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitor, emtricitabine a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate a 
nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor. Medicinal products containing either the individual active 
substances or a dual combination have been approved through the centralised procedure for 
combination antiretroviral therapy of HIV-1 infection.
The benefits of Eviplera are its ability to reduce and maintain the amount of HIV in plasma (viral load) 
at a low level in patients with viral load ≤ 100,000 HIV 1 RNA copies/ml. The most common side effects 
are nausea, dizziness, abnormal dreams, headache, insomnia and diarrhea.
A pharmacovigilance plan for Eviplera will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: " Eviplera is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1 (HIV-1) infection in antiretroviral treatment-naïve adult patients with a viral load ≤ 100,000 
HIV-1 RNA copies/ml. The demonstration of the benefit of the combination emtricitabine, rilpivirine 
hydrochloride and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in antiretroviral therapy is based on week 48 safety 
and efficacy analyses from two randomised, double-blind, controlled Phase III studies in 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
                                               
treatment-naïve patients (see section 5.1). As with other antiretroviral medicinal products, genotypic 
resistance testing should guide the use of Eviplera (see sections 4.4 and 5.1)."
It is proposed that therapy with Eviplera should be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
management of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Eviplera and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.
Eviplera
EMA/CHMP/736674/2011
Page 2/2
