18 December 2013 
EMA/CHMP/798869/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Jentadueto 
linagliptin / metformin  
On 18 December 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Jentadueto. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is 
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, 
provided that they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Jentadueto is indicated in combination with insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to 
diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients when insulin and metformin alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Jentadueto will be as follows2: 
Treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
“Jentadueto is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult 
patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone, or those already 
being treated with the combination of linagliptin and metformin. 
Jentadueto is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise in adult patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose 
of metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Jentadueto is indicated in combination with insulin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients when insulin and 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Jentadueto 
EMA/CHMP/798869/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
