25 February 2016  
EMA/CHMP/148121/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 25 February 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted two positive 
opinions recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Opdivo. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults.” 
In addition, the CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication as follows2: 
"Opdivo is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic squamous non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) after prior chemotherapy in adults.” 
For information, the full indications for Opdivo will be as follows: 
Melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults. 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
Opdivo is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/148121/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
