European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/237260/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISTAION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PREZISTA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): darunavir 
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending an extension to the terms  of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product  Prezista.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Janssen-Cilag 
International NV. 
The extension adopted by the CHMP is to add two new strengths (75 and 150 mg film-coated tablets) 
to the existing product range. 
The CHMP also adopted a change to an indication, as follows***:  
Prezista, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV-1)  infection  in 
antiretroviral  treatment  (ART)  experienced  adult  patients,  including  those  that  have  been  highly 
pre-treated, and for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in ART-experienced children and adolescents 
from the age of 6 years and at least 20 kg body weight. 
In  deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  Prezista  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir  careful 
consideration  should  be  given  to  the  treatment  history  of  the  individual  patient  and  the  patterns  of 
mutations  associated  with  different  agents.  Genotypic  or  phenotypic  testing  (when  available)  and 
treatment history should guide the use of Prezista. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA 
in writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
