25 June 2020 
EMA/178706/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Idefirix 
imlifidase 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Idefirix3, intended for the desensitisation of highly sensitised patients needing kidney transplantation, but 
unlikely to receive a compatible transplant. Idefirix benefited from the support of the PRIME scheme, 
EMA’s platform for early and enhanced dialogue with developers of promising new medicines that address 
unmet medical needs. The applicant for this medicinal product is Hansa Biopharma AB. 
Idefirix will be available as powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (11 mg). The active substance 
of Idefirix is imlifidase, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA). Imlifidase is a cysteine protease 
derived from the immunoglobulin G (IgG)-degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes. It cleaves the 
heavy chains of all human IgG subclasses (but no other immunoglobulins), eliminating Fc-dependent 
effector functions, including CDC and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). Thus, 
imlifidase reduces the level of donor specific antibodies, enabling transplantation. 
The benefits with Idefirix are its ability to convert a positive crossmatch to a negative one in highly 
sensitised patients to allow renal transplantation. The most common side effects are infections and 
infusion related reactions. 
The full indication is:  
Idefirix is indicated for desensitisation treatment of highly sensitised adult kidney transplant 
patients with positive crossmatch against an available deceased donor. The use of Idefirix should 
be reserved for patients unlikely to be transplanted under the available kidney allocation system 
including prioritisation programmes for highly sensitised patients.  
It is proposed that Idefirix be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
immunosuppressive therapy and of sensitised renal transplant patients. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Idefirix  
EMA/178706/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
