28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/138136/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mvabea 
Ebola vaccine (MVA-BN-Filo [recombinant]) 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product  Mvabea, 
intended for prophylaxis against Zaire ebolavirus disease (EVD). Mvabea was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V. 
Mvabea will be available as a suspension for injection. The active substance of Mvabea is based on the 
multivalent, recombinant, non-replicating modified vaccinia Ankara-Bavarian Nordic (MVA-BN) virus strain 
and encodes the Zaire ebolavirus Mayinga variant glycoprotein (GP), Sudan ebolavirus Gulu variant GP, 
Taï Forest ebolavirus nucleoprotein, Marburg marburgvirus Musoke variant GP. Mvabea is a viral vaccine, 
(ATC code: J07BX02) that provides, as part of the Zabdeno, Mvabea vaccine regimen,active immunisation 
for prevention of Zaire ebolavirus disease by inducing an immune response that protects against the 
disease. 
The benefits with Mvabea are its ability to contribute to the generation of a protective response against 
the virus that causes Zaire ebolavirus disease. The most common side effects in adults are injection-site 
reactions (pain, warmth and swelling), fatigue, myalgia and arthralgia. The most common side effects in 
children are injection-site pain and fatigue.  
The full indication is:  
Mvabea, as part of the Zabdeno, Mvabea vaccine regimen, is indicated for active immunisation for 
prevention of disease caused by Ebola virus (Zaire ebolavirus species) in individuals ≥ 1 year of 
age. The use of the vaccine regimen should be in accordance with official recommendations.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
