20 July 2023 
EMA/323969/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Talvey 
talquetamab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Talvey3, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Talvey was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated 
assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Talvey will be available as a 2 mg/ml and 40 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Talvey 
is talquetamab, a bispecific antibody that targets the CD3 receptor expressed on the surface of T cells 
and GPRC5D which is expressed on the surface of plasma cells, including malignant multiple myeloma 
cells. 
The benefit of Talvey is its ability to bring about a partial or complete response in patients with relapsed 
or refractory multiple myeloma, as shown in a phase 1/2, open-label, dose escalation study. The most 
common side effects are cytokine release syndrome, dysgeusia, hypogammaglobulinaemia, nail disorder, 
musculoskeletal pain and anaemia. 
The full indication is: 
Talvey is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma, who have received at least 3 prior therapies, including an 
immunomodulatory agent, a proteasome inhibitor, and an anti-CD38 antibody and have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple 
myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Talvey  
EMA/323969/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
