20 July 2023 
EMA/327881/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Apretude 
cabotegravir 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Apretude, 
intended for prevention of sexually acquired HIV-1 in combination with safer sex practices. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is ViiV Healthcare B.V. 
Apretude will be available as a 30 mg film-coated tablet and a 600 mg prolonged-release suspension for 
injection. The active substance of Apretude is cabotegravir, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: 
J05AJ04). Cabotegravir is an integrase inhibitor of HIV-1 which inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the 
integrase active site and blocking the strand transfer step of retroviral DNA integration, which is essential 
for the HIV replication cycle. 
The benefit of Apretude was a demonstrated superiority of injections every 2 months over a daily oral 
regimen of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate plus emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) in preventing acquisition of HIV-1 
infection, with a 69% and an 90% risk reduction, as shown in two double-blind safety and efficacy 
studies. The most common side effects are injection site reactions, headache, diarrhoea, and increased 
transaminase levels.  
The full indication is: 
Apretude is indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre-exposure prophylaxis 
(PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in high-risk adults and 
adolescents, weighing at least 35 kg (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Apretude should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of HIV.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
