European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 January 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/48585/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MABTHERA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): rituximab 
On  22  January  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  MabThera.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Roche Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
MabThera is indicated for first-line treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
in combination with chemotherapy. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for MabThera will be as follows***: 
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) 
MabThera is indicated for the treatment of previously untreated patients with stage III-IV follicular 
lymphoma in combination with chemotherapy.  
MabThera maintenance therapy is indicated for patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma 
responding to induction therapy with chemotherapy with or without MabThera. 
MabThera monotherapy is indicated for treatment of patients with stage III-IV follicular lymphoma 
who are chemoresistant or are in their second or subsequent relapse after chemotherapy.  
MabThera is indicated for the treatment of patients with CD20 positive diffuse large B cell non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma in combination with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, 
prednisolone) chemotherapy.  
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
MabThera is indicated for first-line treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
(CLL) in combination with chemotherapy. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
MabThera in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to other disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) including one or more tumour necrosis factor (TNF) 
inhibitor therapies. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
