11 November 2021 
EMA/CHMP/615593/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma 
lonapegsomatropin 
On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma2, intended for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in 
children and adolescents above 3 years of age. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Ascendis Pharma Endocrinology Division A/S. 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma will be available as 3 mg, 3.6 mg, 4.3 mg, 5.2 mg, 6.3 mg, 7.6 mg, 
9.1 mg, 11 mg and 13.3 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma is lonapegsomatropin, a long-acting, once-weekly transiently 
pegylated somatropin that in the body dissociates into somatropin, also called human growth hormone 
(hGH), and carrier methoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG). The ATC code is yet to be assigned. 
The benefits of Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma are consistent, clinically relevant, improvements of 
growth-related parameters, such as annualised height velocity (AHV), height standard deviation score 
(height SDS), insulin-like growth factor-1 SDS (IGF-I SDS), in paediatric GHD patients who are either 
naïve or non-naïve to growth hormone.  
The most common side effects are headache, arthralgia, secondary hypothyroidism, and injection site 
reactions.  
The full indication is: 
Growth failure in children and adolescents aged from 3 years up to 18 years due to insufficient 
endogenous growth hormone secretion (growth hormone deficiency [GHD]). 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
management of paediatric patients with growth hormone deficiency.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lonapegsomatropin Ascendis Pharma  
EMA/CHMP/615593/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
