17 December 2015  
EMA/776644/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tagrisso 
osimertinib 
On 17 December 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tagrisso, intended for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
associated with a particular genetic mutation (T790M). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
AstraZeneca AB. 
Tagrisso will be available as 40 mg and 80 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tagrisso is 
osimertinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE35). Osimertinib is an irreversible inhibitor of 
epidermal growth factor receptors that harbour sensitising mutations (EGFRm) and TKI-resistance mutation 
T790M. 
The benefits with Tagrisso are its significant activity in patients with NSCLC harbouring the T790M mutation. 
The most common side effects are diarrhoea and rash. The most common severe side effects are 
pneumonia, pulmonary embolism and dyspnoea. 
The full indication is: "Tagrisso is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC)." It is proposed that Tagrisso should be initiated by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer 
therapies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
