14 April 2011  
EMA/CHMP/98238/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rivastigmine Actavis 
Rivastigmine 
On 14 April the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion∗∗, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rivastigmine 
Actavis 1.5 mg, 3 mg, 4.5 mg, 6 mg hard capsules intended for the symptomatic treatment of mild to 
moderately severe Alzheimer’s dementia and of mild to moderately severe dementia in patients with 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf  
The active substance of Rivastigmine Actavis is Rivastigmine, an anticholinesterases medicinal product 
(N06DA03). Rivastigmine is an acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitor of the carbamate type, 
thought to facilitate cholinergic neurotransmission by slowing the degradation of acetylcholine released 
by functionally intact cholinergic neurones. Thus, Rivastigmine may have an ameliorative effect on 
cholinergic-mediated cognitive deficits in dementia associated with Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s 
disease. 
Rivastigmine Actavis is a generic of Exelon, which has been authorised in the EU since 12 May 1998. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Rivastigmine Actavis, and its bioequivalence with 
Exelon. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
The  approved  indication  is:  “Rivastigmine  is  indicated  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  of  mild  to 
moderately  severe  Alzheimer’s  dementia  and  mild  to  moderately  severe  dementia  in  patients  with 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
∗∗ Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their intention 
to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit risk balance 
for Rivastigmine Actavis, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Rivastigmine Actavis  
EMA/CHMP/98238/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
