23 October 2014 
EMA/CHMP/631607/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rixubis 
nonacog gamma 
On 23 October 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rixubis, 
250 IU, 500 IU, 1000 IU, 2000 IU, 3000 IU, powder and solvent for solution for injection intended for 
treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency).  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Baxter Innovations GmbH. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Rixubis is nonacog gamma, an antihaemorrhagic, blood coagulation factor IX 
(ATC code: B02BD04) which when activated, in combination with activated factor VIII, activates factor 
X to convert prothrombin into thrombin; thrombin then converts fibrinogen into fibrin and a clot is 
formed.  
The benefits with Rixubis are its ability to achieve haemostatic efficacy for the prevention and 
treatment of bleeds in patients with Haemophilia B as well as efficacy during surgery. The most 
common side effects are dysgeusia, pain in extremity, anti Furin antibodies and postoperative 
anaemia.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Rixubis will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.   
The approved indication is: "Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia B 
(congenital factor IX deficiency). RIXUBIS is indicated in patients of all age groups”. 
It is proposed that Rixubis be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of haemophilia.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 8427  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
E-mail press@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Rixubis and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Rixubis 
EMA/CHMP/631607/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
