28 February 2019 
EMA/CHMP/147314/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pazenir 
paclitaxel 
On 28 February 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pazenir, 
intended for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Teva B.V. 
Pazenir will be available as a 5 mg/ml powder for dispersion for infusion. The active substance of Pazenir is 
paclitaxel, an antineoplastic agent that belongs to the class known as taxanes (ATC code: L01CD01). 
Paclitaxel blocks a stage of cell division in which the cell’s internal skeleton is dismantled to allow the cell to 
divide. By keeping this structure intact the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. Pazenir also affects 
non-cancer cells such as blood and nerve cells, which can cause side effects. 
Pazenir is a generic of Abraxane, another nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel, which has been authorised 
in the EU since 2008. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pazenir. A bioequivalence study 
versus the reference product Abraxane was not required. This is because Pazenir is administered 
intravenously and the nanoparticles dissociate rapidly, and also because of the qualitative and quantitative 
compositions and the nature and behaviour of the products. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Pazenir monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients 
who have failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline 
containing therapy is not indicated (see section 4.4). 
Pazenir in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation 
therapy.” 
It is proposed that Pazenir should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified oncologist in 
units specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. It should not be substituted for or with other 
paclitaxel formulations. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Pazenir  
EMA/CHMP/147314/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
