28 February 2019 
EMA/CHMP/40684/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ondexxya 
andexanet alfa 
On 28 of February 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation2 for the medicinal product 
Ondexxya, intended for use when reversal of anticoagulation with apixaban or rivaroxaban is needed due to 
life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. The applicant for this medicinal product is Portola Netherlands B.V. 
Ondexxya will be available as a 200 mg powder for solution for infusion. The active substance is andexanet 
alfa, belonging to the pharmacotherapeutic group antidotes (ATC code: V03AB38). Andexanet alfa is a 
recombinant form of human factor Xa protein which binds to rivaroxaban or apixaban (direct factor Xa 
inhibitor) with high affinity, rendering them unable to exert their anticoagulant effects.  
The benefits with Ondexxya are its ability to reverse the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban and apixaban. 
It can be used in conjunction with standard supportive measures as appropriate. Clinical efficacy is based 
upon reversal of anti-factor Xa activity in healthy volunteers and interim results in patients with life 
threatening bleeding. Further confirmation of the correlation between anti-factor Xa activity and 
haemostatic efficacy in bleeding patients and of the recommended posology is expected. Thrombotic events 
have been reported following treatment with Ondexxya and a pro-thrombotic effect cannot be ruled out.  
The full indication is:  
“For adult patients treated with a direct factor Xa (FXa) inhibitor (apixaban or rivaroxaban) when 
reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
