24 May 2012 
EMA/293828/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Inlyta 
(axitinib) 
On 24 May 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Inlyta, 
1 mg and 5 mg film-coated tablets, intended for the treatment of adult patients with advanced renal 
cell carcinoma (RCC) after failure of prior treatment with sunitinib or a cytokine. Inlyta was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 23 February 2011. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Pfizer Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Inlyta is axitinib, a protein kinase inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth 
factor receptors (L01XE17) that inhibits VEGF-mediated endothelial cell proliferation and survival.  
The benefits with Inlyta are its ability to delay the progression of disease in patients previously treated 
with sunitinib and its ability to improve the survival and to delay the progression of disease in patients 
previously treated with cytokines. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, hypertension, fatigue, 
dysphonia, nausea, decreased appetite, and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (hand-foot) syndrome. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Inlyta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: ‘‘Inlyta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced renal 
cell carcinoma (RCC) after failure of prior treatment with sunitinib or a cytokine”. It is proposed that 
Inlyta should be conducted by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Inlyta and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
