30 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/221210/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Reblozyl 
luspatercept 
On 30 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Reblozyl2, intended for 
the treatment of adults with transfusion-dependent anaemia associated with myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS) or beta-thalassaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe BV. 
Reblozyl will be available as 25-mg and 75-mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance in 
Reblozyl is luspatercept, an erythroid maturation agent (ATC group B03X) that binds selected transforming 
growth factor-β superfamily ligands and thus inhibits Smad2/3 signalling, which is abnormally high in MDS 
and beta thalassaemia. Inhibition of Smad2/3 signalling results in differentiation of erythroid precursors 
(normoblasts) and maturation of red blood cells. 
The benefits with Reblozyl are its ability to reduce the number of transfusions in patients with MDS or 
beta-thalassaemia. The most common side effects are bronchitis, urinary tract infection, upper respiratory 
tract infection, influenza, hypersensitivity, hyperuricaemia, dizziness, headache, syncope or presyncope, 
vertigo, hypertension, thromboembolic events, dyspnoea, diarrhoea, nausea, back pain, arthralgia, bone 
pain, fatigue, asthenia and injection site reactions. 
The full indication is: “treatment of adult patients with transfusion-dependent anaemia due to very low, low 
and intermediate-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with ring sideroblasts, who had an unsatisfactory 
response to or are ineligible for erythropoietin-based therapy and for the treatment of adult patients with 
transfusion-dependent anaemia associated with beta-thalassaemia.”  
Reblozyl should be prescribed by physicians experienced in treatment of haematological diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
