19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/476694/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Relvar Ellipta 
Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 
On 19 September 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Relvar Ellipta, 184 μg/22 μg and 92 μg/22 μg, inhalation powder, pre-dispensed intended for the 
regular treatment of asthma and Relvar Ellipta, 92 μg/22 μg, inhalation powder, pre-dispensed for the 
symptomatic treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Glaxo Group Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
Relvar Ellipta (ATC code: R03AK10, Drugs for obstructive airways diseases, Adrenergics and other 
drugs for obstructive airway diseased) is a fixed-dose combination of the active substance fluticasone 
furoate, a synthetic corticosteroid with potent anti-inflammatory activity, and the active substance 
vilanterol, a selective long-acting beta2-receptor agonist. Beta2-receptor agonists stimulate intracellular 
adenylate cyclase which converts ATP into cyclic AMP. Increased cyclic AMP levels cause relaxation of 
bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from 
cells, especially from mast cells.  
The benefits with Relvar Ellipta in the symptomatic treatment of COPD are its ability to improve the 
weighted mean FEV1 0-4 hours at day in 6 months studies versus placebo and to improve the annual 
rate of moderate and severe exacerbations in one year clinical studies versus vilanterol 25 μg. 
The benefits with Relvar Ellipta in the regular treatment of asthma are its ability to improve trough 
FEV1 in a 24 weeks study comparing the 184/22 μg strength versus placebo, fluticasone furoate 200 
μg and fluticasone propionate 1000 μg and to reduce the number of severe exacerbations in a 24 
weeks study comparing the 92/22 μg strength versus fluticasone furoate 100 μg. 
The most common side effects are headache and nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract 
infections. Cases of pneumonia have been reported in patients taking Relvar Ellipta in both indications. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Pneumonia has been included as an important identified risk in the Risk Management Plan and the 
applicant will conduct two post-authorisation safety studies to further investigate this risk. 
A Pharmacovigilance plan for Relvar Ellipta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indications are: 
“Asthma 
Relvar Ellipta is indicated for the regular treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents aged 12 years 
old and older where use of a combination medicinal product (long-acting beta2-agonist and inhaled 
corticosteroid) is appropriate: 
• 
patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” inhaled short 
acting beta2-agonists. 
COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) 
Relvar Ellipta is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of adults with COPD with a FEV1 < 70% 
predicted normal (post-bronchodilator) with an exacerbation history despite regular bronchodilator 
therapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Relvar Ellipta and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Relvar Ellipta 
EMA/CHMP/476694/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
