25 April 2013 
EMA/CHMP/236919/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
RoActemra 
tocilizumab 
On 25 April 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product RoActemra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
RoActemra in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of juvenile idiopathic 
polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended oligoarthritis) in patients 2 years of 
age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with MTX. RoActemra can be 
given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is 
inappropriate. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for RoActemra will be as follows2: 
RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of moderate to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have either responded inadequately to, or 
who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists. In these patients, RoActemra can be given as 
monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
RoActemra has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate. 
RoActemra is indicated for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) in 
patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with NSAIDs 
and systemic corticosteroids. RoActemra can be given as monotherapy (in case of intolerance to MTX 
or where treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or in combination with MTX. 
RoActemra in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of 
juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative and extended 
oligoarthritis) in patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately to 
previous therapy with MTX. RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance 
to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
RoActemra 
EMA/CHMP/236919/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
