13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/804058/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Spevigo 
spesolimab 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Spevigo, intended for the treatment of flares in adult patients with generalised pustular psoriasis. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. 
Spevigo will be available as a 450 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Spevigo is spesolimab, an immunosuppressant and interleukin inhibitor (ATC code: L04AC22). 
Spesolimab is a humanised antagonistic monoclonal immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) antibody which blocks 
human IL-36 receptor(IL36R) signalling. Binding of spesolimab to IL36R prevents the subsequent 
activation of IL36R by cognate ligands (IL-36 α, β and γ) and downstream activation of pro-inflammatory 
pathways. 
The benefits of Spevigo are increases in the proportion of patients achieving a Generalised Pustular 
Psoriasis Physician Global Assessment (GPPGA) pustulation sub score of 0 (indicating no visible pustules) 
and GPPGA total score of 0 or 1 (clear or almost clear skin) in the spesolimab arm compared with placebo 
at week 1 in a phase II, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The most common side 
effects are infections. The most serious adverse reaction was urinary tract infection. 
The full indication is: 
Spevigo is indicated for the treatment of flares in adult patients with generalised pustular 
psoriasis (GPP) as monotherapy. 
Spevigo should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the management of patients with 
inflammatory skin diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
