18 March 2010 
EMA/CHMP/143991/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tolura 
telmisartan 
On  18  March  2010  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Tolura,  
20  mg,  40  mg,  80  mg,  tablets  intended  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension.  The  applicant  for  this 
medicinal product is Krka, d.d., Novo mesto. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of  their  intention  within  15  days  of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Tolura  is  telmisartan,  an  Angiotensin  II-antagonist  medicinal  product  (ATC 
Code:  C09CA07)  that  displaces  angiotensin  II  from  its  binding  site  at  the  AT1  receptor,  which  is 
responsible for the known actions of angiotensin II. 
Tolura is a generic of Micardis, which has been authorised in the EU since 16 December 1998. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Tolura, and its bioequivalence with Micardis. A question-
and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of essential hypertension in adults”. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tolura, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Tolura and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
