14 September 2023 
EMA/CHMP/378674/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vanflyta 
quizartinib 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vanflyta, 
intended for the treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) that is FLT3-ITD positive. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH. 
Vanflyta will be available as 17.7 mg and 26.5 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Vanflyta is 
quizartinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX11). Quizartinib, together with its major 
metabolite AC886, inhibits the receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3 by preventing autophosphorylation of the 
receptor, thereby inhibiting further downstream FLT3 receptor signalling and blocking 
FLT3-ITD-dependent cell proliferation. 
The benefit of Vanflyta is an increased survival rate (median OS of 31.9 months and 15.1 months 
respectively for quizartinib and placebo) when used in the approved indication, as shown in a randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study in adult patients with FLT3-ITD-positive AML. The most 
common side effects are increased alanine aminotransferase, decreased platelet count, decreased 
haemoglobin, diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain, headache, vomiting and decreased neutrophil count. 
The full indication is: 
VANFLYTA is indicated in combination with standard cytarabine and anthracycline induction and 
standard cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, followed by VANFLYTA single-agent 
maintenance therapy for adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) 
that is FLT3-ITD positive. 
Vanflyta should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
