24 September 2015  
EMA/628515/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Genvoya 
elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Genvoya, 
intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences 
International Ltd. 
Genvoya will be available as a fixed-dose combination of four active substances, elvitegravir, cobicistat, 
emtricitabine, and tenofovir alafenamide, and will be available as 150 mg/150 mg/200 mg/10 mg film-
coated tablets (ATC code: J05AR18). 
Elvitegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and blocking the strand transfer 
step of retroviral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) integration that is essential for the HIV replication cycle. 
Emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide are substrates and competitive inhibitors of HIV reverse 
transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain 
termination. Cobicistat enhances the systemic exposure of elvitegravir and has no direct antiviral effect. 
The benefits with Genvoya are its ability to achieve a potent antiretroviral response in a once daily, single 
pill regimen. The most common side effect is nausea. Genvoya was associated with low impact on renal 
safety and bone mineral density compared to the licensed tenofovir disoproxil. 
The full indication is: "Genvoya is indicated for the treatment of adults and adolescents (aged 12 years 
and older with body weight at least 35 kg) infected with human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) without 
any known mutations associated with resistance to the integrase inhibitor class, emtricitabine or tenofovir 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1)." It is proposed that Genvoya be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
management of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
