26 January 2023 
EMA/CHMP/30826/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dapagliflozin Viatris 
dapagliflozin 
On 26 January 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dapagliflozin 
Viatris, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus, heart failure and chronic kidney disease. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Viatris Limited. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris will be available as 5 mg and 10 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is dapagliflozin, a sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor 
(ATC code: A10BK01). SGLT2 is responsible for glucose reabsorption in the kidneys. By blocking the 
action of SGLT2, dapagliflozin reduces renal glucose reabsorption, resulting in urinary glucose excretion 
and reduced blood glucose levels. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is a generic of Forxiga, which has been authorised in the EU since 
11 November 2012. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dapagliflozin Viatris, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Forxiga. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is indicated in adults and children aged 10 years and above for the 
treatment of insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
- 
- 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance. 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.   
For study results with respect to combination of therapies, effects on glycaemic control, 
cardiovascular and renal events, and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1. 
Heart failure 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is indicated in adults for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure 
with reduced ejection fraction. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is indicated in adults for the treatment of chronic kidney disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris  
EMA/CHMP/30826/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
