15 September 2016 
EMA/CHMP/587633/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Parsabiv 
etelcalcetide 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Parsabiv, 
intended for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Parsabiv will be available as 2.5, 5 and 10 mg vials containing a solution for injection. The active substance 
of Parsabiv is the synthetic peptide etelcalcetide, a calcimimetic agent (ATC code: H05BX04) which reduces 
parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion by the parathyroid gland through binding and activation of the 
calcium-sensing receptor. 
The benefits with Parsabiv are its ability to reduce abnormally elevated serum PTH levels in patients with 
chronic kidney disease on haemodialysis therapy, in order to mitigate the adverse consequences of 
secondary hyperparathyroidism in these patients. The most common side effect is a decrease of serum 
calcium levels. Other common side effects are muscle spasms, diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting. 
The full indication is: "Parsabiv is indicated for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) in 
adult patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on haemodialysis therapy".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
