10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/650319/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sibnayal 
potassium citrate / potassium hydrogen carbonate 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sibnayal2, 
intended for the treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Advicenne S.A. 
Sibnayal will be available as 8 and 24 mEq prolonged-release granules. The active substances of Sibnayal 
are potassium citrate and potassium hydrogen carbonate, mineral supplements (ATC code: A12BA30) 
acting as alkalising agents and a buffer in metabolic acidosis. 
The benefit with Sibnayal is its ability to correct metabolic acidosis in patients with distal renal tubular 
acidosis. This condition can lead to renal function impairment, weaken muscle strength and affect bone 
structure, and it can result in adults of short stature if left untreated. 
The most common side effects are abdominal pain, gastro-intestinal pain and nausea. 
The full indication is: 
Sibnayal is indicated for the treatment of distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged one year and older. 
It is proposed that Sibnayal be subject to medical prescription. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
