17 January 2013 
EMA/CHMP/35983/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Komboglyze 
Saxagliptin/metformin hydrochloride 
On 17 January 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Komboglyze. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers 
Squibb/AstraZeneca EEIG. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Komboglyze is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients aged 18 years and older 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus when the maximally tolerated dose of both metformin and the 
sulphonylurea does not provide adequate glycaemic control." 
For information, the full indications for Komboglyze will be as follows2: 
Komboglyze is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult 
patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on their 
maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being treated with the combination of 
saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
Komboglyze is also indicated in combination with insulin (ie, triple combination therapy) as an adjunct 
to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 
diabetes mellitus when insulin and metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Komboglyze is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination 
therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients 
aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus when the maximally tolerated dose of 
both metformin and the sulphonylurea does not provide adequate glycaemic control.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
