21 November 2013 
EMA/711216/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Velcade 
Bortezomib  
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending variations to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Velcade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag 
International N.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows*: 
“VELCADE as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma 
who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Velcade will be as follows2: 
VELCADE as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma 
who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
VELCADE in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
VELCADE in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated 
for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are 
eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade 
EMA/711216/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
