22 June 2017  
EMA/CHMP/383155/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kisqali 
ribociclib 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kisqali, 
intended for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
Kisqali will be available as 200-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Kisqali is ribociclib, a 
protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE42) that selectively inhibits cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4 
and 6. CDK4 and 6 are downstream of multiple signalling pathways which lead to cellular proliferation. 
The approval was based on a study showing that Kisqali in combination with letrozole (an aromatase 
inhibitor) significantly improves progression-free survival. The most common side effects are neutropenia, 
leukopenia, headache, back pain, nausea, fatigue, diarrhoea, vomiting, constipation, alopecia and rash. 
The full indication is: "Kisqali in combination with an aromatase inhibitor is indicated for the treatment of 
postmenopausal women with hormone receptor (HR) positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2) negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer as initial endocrine based therapy".  
It is proposed that Kisqali be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
