20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/557733/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pelmeg 
pegfilgrastim 
On 20 September 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pelmeg, 
intended to reduce the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia due to 
chemotherapy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Cinfa Biotech S.L. 
Pelmeg will be available as a 6-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Pelmeg is pegfilgrastim, 
an immunostimulant (ATC code: L03AA13) that belongs to the class of haematopoietic growth factors 
(granulocyte-colony stimulating factor; G-CSF) which increase the production and differentiation of 
mature and functionally active neutrophils from bone marrow precursor cells. 
Pelmeg is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Neulasta 
(pegfilgrastim), which was authorised in the EU on 22 August 2002. Data show that Pelmeg has 
comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Neulasta. More information on biosimilar medicines can be 
found here. 
The full indication is: “Reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in 
adult patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy (with the exception of chronic myeloid 
leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes).”  It is proposed that Pelmeg be initiated and supervised by 
physicians experienced in oncology and/or haematology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
