15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/529305/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Oxlumo 
lumasiran 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Oxlumo2, 
intended for the treatment of primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1). Oxlumo was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Alnylam Netherlands B.V. 
Oxlumo will be available as solution for injection (189 mg/ml). The active substance of Oxlumo is 
lumasiran, a small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) that causes degradation of the messenger 
ribonucleic acid (mRNA) involved in the synthesis of the enzyme glycolate oxidase (GO) in the liver, 
leading to decreased GO enzyme. This results in reduction of plasma and urinary oxalate levels, the 
underlying cause of disease manifestations in patients with PH1. 
The benefits of Oxlumo is its ability to reduce plasma oxalate levels and 24-hour urinary oxalate excretion 
compared to placebo, as observed during a 6-month double-blind, controlled clinical trial. The most 
common side effects are injection site reaction and abdominal pain. 
The full indication is:  
Treatment of primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) in all age groups. 
Oxlumo should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the management of 
hyperoxaluria. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
