21 June 2012 
EMA/66275/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cuprymina 
copper (64Cu) chloride  
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cuprymina, 
925 MBq/ml, radiopharmaceutical precursor. Cuprymina is a radiopharmaceutical precursor, not 
intended for direct use in patients, and is to be used only for the radiolabelling of carrier molecules, 
which have been specifically developed and authorised for radiolabelling with this radionuclide. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is SPARKLE S.r.l. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Cuprymina is copper (64Cu) chloride, a radioactive compound that emits beta 
radiation. The effect of copper (64Cu) chloride depends on the nature of the medicine that is 
radiolabelled with it.  
Since Cuprymina is not intended for direct administration without conjugation to carrier molecules, no 
clinical data with the use of Cuprymina alone have been submitted. However, information 
demonstrating the clinical utility of the radiopharmaceutical when attached to relevant carrier 
molecules was presented. A potential clinical utility for Cuprymina radiolabelled molecules was shown 
in the molecular imaging of tumours. Another potential area of clinical utility is the detection of hypoxic 
areas within tumours. 
Unfavourable effects relating to the radioactivity would be expected as for all radionuclides in clinical 
use. These include carcinogenicity, mutagenecity, and effects on different tissues. These would be 
dependant on the radiation characteristics of copper (64Cu) chloride in Cuprymina as well as on the 
carrier molecule to which Cuprymina is labelled. In addition to radiation exposure to the patient, the 
risk of radiation exposure to other individuals is also a risk, considering the emission of high energy 
gamma rays from copper (64Cu) chloride. Further comment on whether the risk is acceptable in any 
particular case can only be made in subsequent applications for carrier molecules intending to use 
Cuprymina as a radiolabel, for use in specific indications. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cuprymina will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is: “Cuprymina is a radiopharmaceutical precursor. It is not intended for direct 
use in patients. This medicinal product must be used only for the radiolabelling of carrier molecules, 
which have been specifically developed and authorised for radiolabelling with this radionuclide." It is 
proposed that Cuprymina be prescribed by physicians experienced in in-vitro radiolabelling. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Cuprymina and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Cuprymina 
EMA/66275/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
