24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/116347/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Verzenios 
abemaciclib 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Verzenios. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication to include use in early breast cancer at high 
risk of recurrence. For information, the full indication for Verzenios will be as follows:2  
Early Breast Cancer 
Verzenios in combination with endocrine therapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of 
adult patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, node-positive early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence (see 
section 5.1). 
In pre- or perimenopausal women, aromatase inhibitor endocrine therapy should be combined 
with a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist. 
Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer 
Verzenios is indicated for the treatment of women with hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination 
with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant as initial endocrine-based therapy, or in women who have 
received prior endocrine therapy. 
In pre- or perimenopausal women, the endocrine therapy should be combined with a luteinising hormone-
releasing horme (LHRH) agonist. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Verzenios  
EMA/CHMP/116347/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
