13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/803191/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Livmarli 
maralixibat chloride 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Livmarli3, intended for the treatment of cholestatic pruritus in patients with Alagille 
syndrome (ALGS).  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mirum Pharmaceuticals International B.V. 
Livmarli will be available as an oral solution. The active substance of Livmarli is maralixibat chloride, a 
potent, reversible, selective inhibitor of the ileal bile acid transporter (ATC code: A05AX04). Each ml of 
solution contains maralixibat chloride equivalent to 9.5 mg maralixibat. Maralixibat acts locally in the 
distal ileum to decrease the reuptake and increase the clearance of bile acids through the colon, thereby 
reducing their concentration in the serum.  
The benefit of Livmarli is its ability to reduce serum bile acid-related pruritus in patients with ALGS. The 
most common side effects are diarrhoea and abdominal pain.  
The full indication is: 
Livmarli is indicated for the treatment of cholestatic pruritus in patients with Alagille syndrome 
(ALGS) 2 months of age and older. 
Treatment with Livmarli should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management of patients with cholestatic liver diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Livmarli  
EMA/CHMP/803191/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
