EMA/CHMP/655859/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal  
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Celdoxome 
pegylated liposomal, intended for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer, advanced ovarian cancer, 
progressive multiple myeloma and AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is YES Pharmaceutical Development Services GmbH. 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal will be available as a 2 mg/ml concentrate for dispersion for infusion. The 
active substance of Celdoxome pegylated liposomal is doxorubicin hydrochloride, a cytotoxic agent (ATC 
code: L01DB01) that inhibits DNA, RNA and protein synthesis. 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal is a hybrid medicine2 of Adriamycin which has been authorised in the EU 
since 24 October 1979. Celdoxome pegylated liposomal contains the same active substance as 
Adriamycin, but is available in a pegylated liposomal formulation. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Celdoxome, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Caelyx, which contains doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated liposomal formulation and was 
chosen as comparator.  
The full indication is: 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal is indicated in adults: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
As  monotherapy  for  patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer,  where  there  is  an  increased 
cardiac risk. 
- 
For treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in women who have failed a first-line platinum-
based chemotherapy regimen. 
- 
In  combination  with  bortezomib  for  the  treatment  of  progressive  multiple  myeloma  in 
patients who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are 
unsuitable for bone marrow transplant. 
- 
For treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi’s sarcoma (KS) in patients with low CD4 counts (< 
200 CD4 lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive mucocutaneous or visceral disease. 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal may be used as first-line systemic chemotherapy, or as second line 
chemotherapy in AIDS-KS patients with disease that has progressed with, or in patients intolerant 
to,  prior  combination  systemic  chemotherapy  comprising  at  least  two  of  the  following  agents:  a 
vinca alkaloid, bleomycin and standard doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified 
oncologist specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Celdoxome pegylated liposomal  
EMA/CHMP/655859/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
