25 January 2018 
EMA/CHMP/785115/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hemlibra 
emicizumab 
On 25 January 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Hemlibra, intended to prevent bleeding episodes in patients with haemophilia A who have factor 
VIII inhibitors. Hemlibra was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
Hemlibra will be available as a solution for injection (30 mg/1 ml, 60 mg/0.4 ml, 105 mg/0.7 ml 
and 150 mg/1 ml). The active substance of Hemlibra is emicizumab (ATC code: B02BX), a 
bispecific monoclonal antibody that mimics the action of factor VIII, preventing bleeding in patients 
with haemophilia A who have decreased or no circulating levels of factor VIII.   
The benefits with Hemlibra are its ability to reduce bleeds in routine prophylaxis with a weekly 
injection. The most common side effects are headache, injection site reaction, pyrexia, thrombotic 
microangiopathy, diarrhoea, arthralgia, and myalgia. 
The full indication is: "Hemlibra is indicated for routine prophylaxis of bleeding episodes in patients 
with haemophilia A with factor VIII inhibitors. Hemlibra can be used in all age groups." It is 
proposed that Hemlibra should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of haemophilia and/or bleeding disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
