21 March 2013 
EMA/CHMP/179438/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Soliris 
eculizumab 
On 21 March 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Soliris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Alexion Europe SAS. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Soliris is currently authorised for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) in 
adults only and atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) in adults and children. The CHMP’s 
opinion now recommends that the PNH indication be extended to include children.  
The full indication for Soliris will be as follows2: 
“Soliris is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of patients with  
−  Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). 
Evidence of clinical benefit of Soliris in the treatment of patients with PNH is limited to patients 
with history of transfusions. 
−  Atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
