26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/420258/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Verzenios 
abemaciclib 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Verzenios, intended for 
the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli 
Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Verzenios will be available as film-coated tablets (50 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg). The active substance of 
Verzenios is abemaciclib, a protein kinases inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE50) that potently and selectively 
inhibits cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4 and CDK6), leading to suppression of tumour growth. 
The benefit with Verzenios is its ability to significantly improve progression-free survival in combination with 
an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, infections, neutropenia, 
anaemia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting and decreased appetite. 
The full indication is:  
"Verzenios is indicated for the treatment of women with hormone receptor (HR) positive, human 
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer in 
combination with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant as initial endocrine-based therapy, or in 
women who have received prior endocrine therapy.  
In pre- or perimenopausal women, the endocrine therapy should be combined with a luteinising 
hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist." 
It is proposed that Verzenios be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
