20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/687220/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cerdelga 
eliglustat 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cerdelga, 84 mg hard capsules intended for the long-term treatment of adult patients with Gaucher 
disease type 1 (GD1), who are CYP2D6 poor metabolisers (PMs), intermediate metabolisers (IMs) 
or extensive metabolisers (EMs). 
Cerdelga was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 4 December 2007. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe BV. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within  
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Cerdelga is eliglustat, a product belonging to various alimentary tract and 
metabolism products (ATC code: A16AX10).  
Eliglustat is a potent and specific inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase, and acts as a substrate 
reduction therapy (SRT) for GD1. SRT aims to reduce the rate of synthesis of the major substrate 
glucosylceramide (GL-1) to match its impaired rate of catabolism in patients with GD1, thereby 
preventing glucosylceramide accumulation and alleviating clinical manifestations.  
The benefits with Cerdelga are its ability to decrease the plasma GL-1 levels that result in 
improvements in organ volume (spleen and liver volumes), haematological parameters 
(haemoglobin levels and platelet count) and skeletal parameters.  
The most common side effects were headache, nausea, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, flatulence, 
arthralgia, fatigue.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cerdelga will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
The approved indication is: “Cerdelga is indicated for the long-term treatment of adult patients 
with Gaucher disease type 1 (GD1), who are CYP2D6 poor metabolisers (PMs), intermediate 
metabolisers (IMs) or extensive metabolisers (EMs)".  
It is proposed that Cerdelga should be initiated and supervised by a physician knowledgeable in the 
management of Gaucher disease.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Cerdelga and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Cerdelga 
EMA/CHMP/687220/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
