15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/717080/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Prevenar 13 
Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (13-valent, adsorbed) 
On 15 November 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Prevenar 13. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer 
Ltd.  They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
"Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused 
by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks to 17 years of age. 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in 
adults aged 50 years and older. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
The use of Prevenar 13 should be determined on the basis of official recommendations taking into 
consideration the impact of invasive disease in different age groups as well as the variability of 
serotype epidemiology in different geographical areas.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
