Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan Ireland Limited. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
dimethyl fumarate 
24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/102832/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dimethyl 
fumarate Mylan, intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
multiple sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan will be available as 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules. The 
active substance of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is dimethyl fumarate, an immunomodulating agent (ATC 
The treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should be initiated under the supervision of a physician 
2014. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan and its 
code: L04AX07). It primarily acts by triggering the activation of the nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is a generic of Tecfidera, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 January 
bioequivalence to the reference product Tecfidera. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
experienced in the treatment of the disease. 
granted by the European Commission. 
like 2 (Nrf2) transcriptional pathway. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
