14 October 2021 
EMA/CHMP/555194/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cibinqo 
abrocitinib 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cibinqo, 
intended for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Cibinqo will be available as 50 mg, 100 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Cibinqo is abrocitinib, a Janus kinase (JAK)1 inhibitor (ATC code: D11AH). JAKs are intracellular enzymes 
which transmit signals arising from cytokine or growth factor receptor interactions on the cellular 
membrane, influencing cellular processes of haematopoiesis and immune-cell function. 
The benefits of Cibinqo are its ability to improve the skin condition as measured by improvements in the 
Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) 0/1 and Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI)-75 response and 
to reduce itching in patients with atopic dermatitis. The most common side effects are nausea, headache, 
acne, herpes simplex, increased blood creatine phosphokinase, vomiting, dizziness and upper abdominal 
pain. The most serious side effects are infections.  
The full indication is: 
Cibinqo is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adults who are 
candidates for systemic therapy. 
Cibinqo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of atopic dermatitis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
