European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/80751/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ADENURIC 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): febuxostat 
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Adenuric, 80 mg and 120 mg, film-coated tablets intended for treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in 
gout patients. The applicant for this medicinal product is Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Limited. 
The active substance of Adenuric is febuxostat, a medicinal product against gout and inhibits uric acid 
production (ATC Code MO4AA03); febuxostat is a non-purine selective inhibitor of xanthine oxidase. 
The benefits with Adenuric are its potency to reduce serum urate. The most common side effects are 
liver  function  abnormalities,  diarrhoea,  headache,  nausea  and  rash.  In  the  clinical  trials  serious 
cardiovascular adverse events were the main safety concern. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Adenuric, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions where urate deposition 
has already occurred (including a history or presence of, tophus and/or gouty arthritis)”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Adenuric  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
   
 
 
