18 March2010 
EMA/CHMP/117846/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
NIVESTIM 
filgrastim 
On 18 March 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nivestim, 
12 MU/0.2 ml, 30 MU/0.5 ml, 48 MU/0.5 ml, solution for injection or infusion intended for the 
treatment of neutropenia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Hospira UK Ltd. They may request 
a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing 
of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Nivestim is filgrastim, an immunostimulating medicinal product (L03AA02) 
which regulates the production and release of functional neutrophils from the bone marrow. 
Nivestim is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Neupogen authorised in the 
EU. Studies have shown Nivestim to have a comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen 
(filgrastim). 
The most common side effects are bone, joint and muscle pain, elevations in blood levels of uric acid 
and certain enzymes, leucocytosis, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, headache, nose bleed, enlarged 
spleen and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Nivestim will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: 
Filgrastim is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy 
(with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the 
reduction in the duration of neutropenia in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed 
by bone marrow transplantation considered to be at increased risk of prolonged severe 
neutropenia. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The safety and efficacy of filgrastim are similar in adults and children receiving cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. 
Filgrastim is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC). 
In patients, children or adults, with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 x 109 /l and a history of severe or recurrent infections, 
long term administration of filgrastim is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to reduce 
the incidence and duration of infection-related events. 
Filgrastim is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal to 
1.0 x 109 /l in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial 
infections when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
Filgrastim therapy should only be given in collaboration with an oncology centre which has experience 
in granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) treatment and haematology and has the necessary 
diagnostic facilities. The mobilisation and apheresis procedures should be performed in collaboration 
with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where the monitoring 
of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Nivestim and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
NIVESTIM  
EMA/CHMP/117846/2010 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
