30 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/213580/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fingolimod Accord 
fingolimod 
On 30 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fingolimod 
Accord, intended for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis with high disease activity. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Fingolimod Accord will be available as 0.5 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Fingolimod Accord is 
fingolimod hydrochloride, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA27) acting as a sphingosine 
1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator. Fingolimod hydrochloride is metabolised to the active metabolite 
fingolimod phosphate, which blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes and reduces 
the infiltration of pathogenic lymphocyte cells into the central nervous system.  
Fingolimod Accord is a generic of Gilenya, which has been authorised in the EU since 17 March 2011. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Fingolimod Accord and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Gilenya. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Fingolimod Accord as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following groups of adult and paediatric patients aged 10 years and older, with a 
body weight of >40 kg: 
• 
• 
Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least 
one disease modifying therapy or 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gd-enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
It is proposed that Fingolimod Accord be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Fingolimod Accord  
EMA/CHMP/213580/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
