18 February 2010 
EMA/CHMP/103005/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cholestagel  
(colesevelam) 
On 18 February 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Cholestagel. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe 
B.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Cholestagel can also be used in combination with ezetimibe, with or without a statin, in adult patients 
with primary hypercholesterolaemia, including patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia (see section 
5.1).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Cholestagel will be as follows2: 
 “Cholestagel co administered with a 3 hydroxy 3 methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase 
inhibitor (statin) is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to provide an additive reduction in low 
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL C) levels in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who 
are not adequately controlled with a statin alone. 
Cholestagel as monotherapy is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total 
cholesterol and LDL C in adult patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin 
is considered inappropriate or is not well tolerated. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
Cholestagel  can  also  be  used  in  combination  with  ezetimibe,  with  or  without  a  statin,  in 
adult  patients  with  primary  hypercholesterolaemia, 
including  patients  with  familial 
hypercholesterolaemia (see section 5.1).” 
Cholestagel  
EMA/CHMP/103005/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
