17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/452678/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
MenQuadfi 
meningococcal group A, C, W and Y conjugate vaccine 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product MenQuadfi, 
intended for prophylaxis against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
serogroups A, C, W and Y. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi Pasteur. 
MenQuadfi will be available as a solution for injection. The active substance of MenQuadfi is a conjugate 
of meningococcal group A, C, W and Y capsular polysaccharides with tetanus toxoid as carrier protein, 
forming a meningococcal vaccine (ATC code: J07AH08) that stimulates the production of antibodies 
specific to those capsular polysaccharides. The anti-capsular antibodies protect against meningococcal 
disease via complement-mediated bactericidal activity. 
The benefits with MenQuadfi are its ability to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
groups A, C, W and Y in individuals aged 12 months and older. The most common side effects are 
injection site reactions such as erythema, swelling and pain.  
The full indication is:  
MenQuadfi is indicated for active immunisation of individuals from the age of 12 months and older 
against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W and 
Y.  
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
