21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/422796/2012 corr* 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion† (initial authorisation) 
Enurev Breezhaler 
glycopyrronium bromide  
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Enurev 
Breezhaler 44 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules intended for the maintenance 
bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD). The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Enurev Breezhaler is glycopyrronium bromide, an antiholinergic agent 
(R03BB06) that inhibits acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction.  
The benefits with Enurev Breezhaler are its ability to relieve the symptoms experienced by patients 
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in terms of lung function. The most common side 
effects is dry mouth; the safety profile is further characterised by other symptoms related to the 
anticholinergic effects, gastrointestinal effects as well as adverse reactions related to local tolerability. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Enurev Breezhaler will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.   
The approved indication is: maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* typographical error of ATC code has been corrected 
† Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Enurev Breezhaler and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.   
Enurev Breezhaler 
EMA/CHMP/422796/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
