20 January 2011 
EMA/27541/2011 – Correction 11* 
Committee for medicinal products for hu
man use (CHMP) 
Summary 
of opinion2 (initial authorisation) 
Halaven 
Eribulin  
On 20 January 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
 adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending th
e granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Halaven, 
0.44 mg/ml solution for injection, intended for treatment of patients with breast cancer who have 
received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for locally advanced or meta
static disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Eisai Europe Ltd. They may request a re-ex
amination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify
 the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Halaven is eribulin mesylate, an antineoplastic agent (L0
1XX41). Halaven 
inhibits the growth phase of microtubules wi
thout affecting the shortening phase and sequesters 
tubulin into nonproductive aggregates.  Eribulin exerts its effects via a tubulin-based antimitotic 
mechanism leading to G /M cell-cycle block, disruption of mitotic spindles, and, u
ltimately, apoptotic 
2
cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage. 
The benefits with Halaven as a late line treatment in patients with advanced br
east cancer are in terms 
of survival and progression-free survival com
pared to the treatment of physician’s choice. The most 
common side effects are neutropenia/leukopenia, asthenia/fatigue, nausea, cons
tipation, alopecia, 
arthralgia/myalgia, pyr
exia and peripheral neuropathy.  
A pharmacovigilance pl
an for Halaven will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “HALAVEN monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed after at least two chemotherapeutic 
regimens for advanced disease. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline and a taxane 
unless patients were not suitable for these treatments.” 
It is proposed that Halaven is prescribed by physicians experienced in the in the appropriate use of 
cytotoxic medicinal products. 
1 * Corrected INN and dose. 
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summ
ary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP,
 on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Halaven and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Halaven  
EMA/27541/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
