23 September 2010 
EMA/536945/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Brilique 
Ticagrelor 
On 23 September 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Brilique 90mg film-coated tablets. Brilique, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated 
for the prevention of thrombotic events (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction and stroke) in 
patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes (unstable angina, non ST elevation Myocardial Infarction 
[NSTEMI] or ST elevation Myocardial Infarction [STEMI]) including patients managed medically, and 
those who are managed with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery by-pass 
grafting (CABG). The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Brilique is ticagrelor, a member of the chemical class 
cyclopentyltriazolopyrimidines (CPTP), which is a selective and reversible binding adenosine 
diphosphate (ADP) receptor antagonist acting on the P2Y12 ADP-receptor that can prevent ADP-
mediated platelet activation and aggregation. 
The benefits with Brilique are its ability to rapidly and reversibly inhibit platelet aggregation and 
through this to prevent thrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndromes. The most 
common side effects are dyspnoea, contusion and epistaxis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Brilique will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Brilique, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for 
the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes (unstable 
angina, non ST elevation Myocardial Infarction [NSTEMI] or ST elevation Myocardial Infarction 
[STEMI]); including patients managed medically, and those who are managed with percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery by-pass grafting (CABG).”  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Brilique and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Brilique  
EMA/536945/2010  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
