23 February 2017 
EMA/CHMP/103918/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Roteas 
edoxaban 
On 23 February 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Roteas, 
intended for prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adults with atrial fibrillation, and for 
treatment and prevention of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH. 
Roteas will be available as film-coated tablets (15, 30 and 60 mg). The active substance of Roteas is 
edoxaban, an antithrombotic agent (ATC code: B01AF03). Roteas is a highly selective, direct and 
reversible inhibitor of factor Xa. Inhibition of factor Xa in the coagulation cascade reduces thrombin 
generation, prolongs clotting time and reduces the risk of thrombus formation. 
The benefits with Roteas are its ability to:  
• 
• 
reduce the combined risk of stroke and systemic embolic events in patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation who are at risk of stroke and systemic embolic events; 
treat and reduce the risk of recurrence of symptomatic venous thromboembolism in patients who had 
acute symptomatic deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism.  
The most common side effects are cutaneous soft tissue haemorrhage (up to 5.9%), epistaxis (up to 
4.7%) and vaginal haemorrhage. Bleeding can occur at any site and may be severe and even fatal. Other 
common adverse reactions for edoxaban are anaemia, rash and abnormal liver function tests. 
The application for Roteas was an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product 
for Roteas is Lixiana. 
The full indication is:  
“Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF) with one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
years, diabetes mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA).  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults (see section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Roteas  
EMA/CHMP/103918/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
