23 March 2017 
EMA/158291/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Elmiron 
pentosan polysulfate sodium 
On 23 March 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Elmiron, 
intended for the treatment of bladder pain syndrome characterised by either glomerulations or Hunner’s 
lesions in the urine bladder mucosa. Elmiron was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 15 
January 2015. The applicant for this medicinal product is bene-Arzneimittel GmbH. 
Elmiron will be available as 100-mg hard capsules. The active substance of Elmiron is pentosan 
polysulfate sodium (ATC code: G04BX15). Pentosan polysulfate sodium is thought to have a local effect in 
the bladder after systemic administration and excretion into the urine by binding to and repairing the 
glycosaminoglycan layer in the deficient mucous of the bladder.  
The benefits with Elmiron are its ability to relieve pain and urgency as well as to improve overall 
symptoms of the disease in adults with bladder pain syndrome. The most common side effects are 
headache, dizziness and gastro-intestinal events like diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain and rectal 
bleeding.  
The full indication is: "treatment of bladder pain syndrome characterized by either glomerulations or 
Hunner’s lesions in adults with moderate to severe pain, urgency and frequency of micturition". It is 
proposed that Elmiron should be subject to medical prescription.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
