14 April 2011 
EMA/CHMP/103509/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bydureon 
exenatide 
On  14  April  2011  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bydureon, 
2  mg,  powder  and  solvent  for  prolonged-release  suspension  for  injection,  intended  for  treatment  of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Bydureon  is  exenatide,  drugs  used  in  diabetes,  other  blood  glucose  lowering 
drugs, excl. insulins (ATC code: A10BX04). 
Exenatide  is  an  incretin  mimetic.  Endogenous  incretins,  such  as  glucagon-like  peptide  1  (GLP-1), 
facilitate  insulin  secretion  following  their  release  from  the  gut  into  the  circulation  in  response  to  food 
intake. Exenatide is thought to act by mimicking these and other effects of GLP-1.  
Bydureon  is  a  2  mg  suspension  formulation  which  allows  once  weekly  administration  of  exenatide. 
Bydureon is the first long acting GLP-1 analogue receiving an opinion for marketing authorisation. 
The main benefits of Bydureon is its ability to improve glucose metabolism when added to an existing 
oral  antidiabetic  therapy  as  advised  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC).  An  additional 
benefit  is  the  associated  loss  in  body  weight,  which  is  in  contrast  to  many  other  therapeutic  options 
available  in  this  setting.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  nausea,  injection  site  reactions, 
hypoglycaemia (when given with sulphonylureas), and headache.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Bydureon will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is:  
“BYDUREON is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in combination with  
•  Metformin 
•  Sulphonylurea 
• 
Thiazolidinedione 
•  Metformin and sulphonylurea 
•  Metformin and thiazolidinedione 
in adults who have not achieved adequate glycaemic control on maximally tolerated doses of these oral 
therapies.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  SmPC,  which  will  be 
published  in  the  European  public  assessment  report  (EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official 
European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been  granted  by  the  European 
Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Bydureon  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Bydureon  
EMA/CHMP/103509/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
