10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/636661/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Inrebic 
fedratinib 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Inrebic2, 
intended for the treatment of primary myelofibrosis and of myelofibrosis secondary to polycythaemia vera or 
essential thrombocythaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe BV. 
Inrebic will be available as 100-mg capsules. The active substance in Inrebic is fedratinib, a protein kinase 
inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE57E) . Its antineoplastic activity is linked to the selective inhibition of the Janus 
associated kinases (JAKs) involved in the signalling mediation of a number of cytokines and growth factors 
that are important for haematopoiesis and immune function. 
The benefits with Inrebic are its ability to reduce the size of the spleen by at least 35% and to treat other 
symptoms in adults with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis), and 
myelofibrosis following polycythaemia vera or essential thrombocythaemia. The most common side effects 
are diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, thrombocytopenia, anaemia and bleeding. 
The full indication is: 
Inrebic is indicated for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients 
with primary myelofibrosis, post polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post essential 
thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis who are JAK inhibitor naïve or who have been treated with 
ruxolitinib. 
Inrebic should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of anti-cancer agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
