26 March 2015 
EMA/186701/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tamiflu 
oseltamivir 
On 26 March 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for Tamiflu. The marketing 
authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an existing indication as follows2:  
“Treatment of influenza  
Tamiflu is indicated in adults and children including full term neonates In patients one year of age 
and older who present with symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the 
community. Efficacy has been demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of 
symptoms. This indication is based on clinical studies of naturally occurring influenza in which the 
predominant infection was influenza A (see section 5.1). 
Tamiflu is indicated for the treatment of infants less than 1 year of age during a pandemic influenza outbreak 
(see section 5.2).  
The treating physician should take into account the pathogenicity of the circulating strain and the underlying 
condition of the patient to ensure there is a potential benefit to the child.  
Prevention of influenza 
−  Post-exposure prevention in individuals 1 year of age or older following contact with a clinically 
diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
−  The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case by case 
basis by the circumstances and the population requiring protection. In exceptional situations (e.g. in 
case of a mismatch between the circulating and vaccine virus strains, and a pandemic situation) 
seasonal prevention could be considered in individuals one year of age or older. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
−  Tamiflu is indicated for post-exposure prevention of influenza in infants less than 1 year of age 
during a pandemic influenza outbreak (see section 5.2). 
Tamiflu is not a substitute for influenza vaccination.  
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the basis of 
official recommendations. Decisions regarding the use of oseltamivir for treatment and prophylaxis should 
take into consideration what is known about the characteristics of the circulating influenza viruses, available 
information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns for each season and the impact of the disease in 
different geographical areas and patient populations (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Tamiflu  
EMA/186701/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
