16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/493758/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sugammadex Mylan 
sugammadex 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sugammadex 
Mylan, intended for the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium in adults and children 
or vecuronium in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan Ireland Limited. 
Sugammadex  Mylan  will  be  available  as  a  100  mg/ml  solution  for  injection.  The  active  substance  of 
Sugammadex  Mylan  is  sugammadex  (ATC  code:  V03AB35).  Sugammadex  forms  a  complex  with  the 
neuromuscular  blocking  agents  rocuronium  or  vecuronium  in  plasma,  preventing  them  from  binding  to 
nicotinic receptors in the neuromuscular junction and thereby reversing neuromuscular blockade induced 
by rocuronium or vecuronium.  
Sugammadex Mylan is a generic of Bridion, which has been authorised in the EU since 25 July 2008. Studies 
have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Sugammadex  Mylan.  Since  Sugammadex  Mylan  is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product 
Bridion was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium in adults. 
For the paediatric population: sugammadex is only recommended for routine reversal of 
rocuronium induced blockade in children and adolescents aged 2 to 17 years. 
Sugammadex Mylan should only be administered by or under the supervision of an anaesthetist. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the European Commission. 
Sugammadex Mylan  
EMA/CHMP/493758/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
