20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/608476/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Eliquis 
apixaban  
On 20 September 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Eliquis. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-
Myers Squibb / Pfizer EEIG. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the existing 2.5 mg strength and a new 5 mg strength as 
follows: 
“Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA); age 
≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II).” 
The CHMP adopted two new contraindications as follows: 
 
“Lesion or condition at significant risk of major bleeding such as current or recent 
gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial 
haemorrhage, known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular 
aneurysms or major intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities.  
  Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulant agent e.g. unfractionated heparin (UHF), 
low molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives 
(fondaparinux, etc.), oral anticoagulants (warfarin, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, etc.) except under 
the circumstances of switching therapy to or from apixaban (see section 4.2) or when UHF is 
given at doses necessary to maintain a patent central venous or arterial catheter” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP adopted a change to a contraindication as follows: 
"Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Eliquis will be as follows2: 
Eliquis 2.5 mg film-coated tablets: 
“Prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients who have undergone elective hip 
or knee replacement surgery. 
Eliquis 2.5 mg and 5 mg film-coated tablets: 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischaemic 
attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; hypertension; diabetes mellitus; symptomatic heart failure 
(NYHA Class ≥ II).” 
For information, the full contraindications for Eliquis will be as follows3: 
 
"Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
  Clinically significant active bleeding. 
  Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk (see section 
5.2).  
  Lesion or condition at significant risk of major bleeding such as current or recent 
gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, 
recent brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent 
intracranial haemorrhage, known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous 
malformations, vascular aneurysms or major intraspinal or intracerebral vascular 
abnormalities.  
  Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulant agent e.g. unfractionated 
heparin (UHF), low molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin 
derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral anticoagulants (warfarin, rivaroxaban, 
dabigatran, etc.) except under the circumstances of switching therapy to or from 
apixaban (see section 4.2) or when UHF is given at doses necessary to maintain a 
patent central venous or arterial catheter.” 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication. 
Eliquis 
EMA/CHMP/608476/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
