24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/107869/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kapruvia 
difelikefalin 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kapruvia, 
intended for treatment of moderate-to-severe pruritus associated with chronic kidney disease. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma France. 
Kapruvia will be available as 50 µg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Kapruvia is 
difelikefalin, which is classified as other therapeutic product (ATC code: V03AX04) and is a selective 
agonist of the kappa opioid receptor, which can reduce itching and produce immunomodulatory effects 
when activated. 
The benefits of Kapruvia are a reduction in itch intensity and improvement in itch-related quality of life 
over 12 weeks. The most common side effects are hyperkalaemia, somnolence, paraesthesia and 
dizziness. 
The full indication is: 
Kapruvia is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe pruritus associated with chronic 
kidney disease in adult patients on haemodialysis. 
Kapruvia should be restricted for in-centre haemodialysis use only. Kapruvia is intended for use by 
healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which difelikefalin is 
indicated. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
