21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/553960/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for hu
man use (CHMP) 
Summary of
 opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Plenadren 
hydrocortisone 
On 20 July 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) a
dopted a positive 
opinion, recommending
 the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Plenadren 5 mg, 20 mg modified-release tablet intended for treatment of adr
enal insufficiency in 
adults. Plenadren was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 22 May 2006.
 The applicant for 
this medicinal product is DuoCort Pharma AB. They may request a re-examinati
on of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their inten
tion within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Plenadren is hydrocortisone, which is a corticosteroid for
 systemic use, 
glucocorticoids (ATC code: H02AB09). Hydrocortisone is a glucocorticoid and the sy
nthetic form of 
endogenously produced cortisol. Glucocorticoids are important steroids for interme
diary metabolism, 
immune function, musculoskeletal and connective tissue and the brain.
 Cortisol is the principal 
glucocorticoid secreted by the adrenal cortex. Hydrocortisone is given as replace
ment therapy aimed at 
restoring normal cortisol levels in patients with adrenal insufficiency. 
Plenadren has been designed to better mimic the physiological cortison profile a
nd allow once daily 
dosing in order to increase patients compliance. Although the clinical data is insuf
ficient to make any 
claims on improvements with regards to metabolic effects with Plenadren, a onc
e daily dosing regimen 
is considered to be of benefit for some patients in the context of convenience and patient compliance 
considering that treatment of patients with adrenal insufficiency is highly individua
lised. 
Overall, the frequency and type of adverse reactions were similar for Plenadren once daily modified-
release tablets and hydrocortisone tablets given three times daily in a 12-week study. There was an 
initial increase in the frequency of adverse reactions in about one in five patients, observed up to eight 
weeks after first changing from conventional hydrocortisone tablets given three times daily to once 
daily modified-release tablets. However, these adverse reactions (abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea 
and fatigue) are mild or moderate, transient, of short duration but may require dose adjustment or 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
additional concomitant medicinal products.
 A pharmacovigilance plan for Plenadren will be 
implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: treatment of adrenal insufficiency in adults and it is proposed that 
Plenadren is subject to medical prescription. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the sum
mary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which
 will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing
 authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Plenadren and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Plenadren 
EMA/553960/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
