30 April 2020  
EMA/CHMP/233457/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Darzalex 
daratumumab 
On 30 April 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending the granting of an extension of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Darzalex. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The CHMP recommended the addition of a new pharmaceutical form (solution for injection) 
associated with a new strength (1800 mg in 15-ml vial) and a new route of administration 
(subcutaneous injection into the abdomen). 
The new formulation can be used for all the authorised indications of Darzalex, as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone or with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone 
for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for 
autologous stem cell transplant. 
in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients 
with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplant. 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, for the 
treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. 
as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, 
whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent and who have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
