European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/417760/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
KEPPRA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): levetiracetam 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Keppra. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is UCB Pharma SA. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Keppra  is  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without 
secondary generalisation in adults, children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Keppra will be as follows***: 
“Keppra  is  indicated  as  monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without 
secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy.  
Keppra is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
• 
• 
• 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
in  the  treatment  of  myoclonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12  years  of  age  with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
