18 May 2017  
EMA/CHMP/310511/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva 
sevelamer carbonate  
On 18 May 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sevelamer 
carbonate Zentiva. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe BV. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in paediatric 
patients (>6 years of age and a body surface area (BSA) of >0.75 m2) with chronic kidney 
disease.” 
For information, the full indications for Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva will be as follows:2 
“Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients 
receiving haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.  
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is also indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult 
patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis with serum phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/L.  
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in 
paediatric patients (>6 years of age and a body surface area (BSA) of >0.75 m2) with 
chronic kidney disease. 
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva should be used within the context of a multiple therapeutic 
approach, which could include calcium supplement, 1,25-dihydroxy Vitamin D 3 or one of its 
analogues to control the development of renal bone disease.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
