20 January 2011 
EMA/37551/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pravafenix 
fenofibrate/pravastatin 
On 20 January 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pravafenix, 
fenofibrate/pravastatin, 160 mg/40 mg, hard capsule, intended the treatment of high coronary heart 
disease (CHD)-risk adult patients with mixed dyslipidaemia characterised by high triglycerides and low 
HDL-cholesterol levels whose LDL-C levels are adequately controlled while on a treatment with 
pravastatin 40 mg monotherapy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Laboratoires S.M.B. S.A. 
They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Pravafenix are fenofibrate and pravastatin, lipid modifying agents, (ATC code: 
C10BA03). Pravafenix combines two compounds, which have different modes of action and show 
additive effects in terms of reduction of serum lipid. Pravastatin is a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-
3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme catalysing the early rate-limiting step 
in cholesterol biosynthesis. Fenofibrate is a fibric acid derivative and its lipid modifying effects are 
mediated via activation of Peroxisome Proliferator Activated Receptor type alpha (PPARα). The 
respective effects of pravastatin and fenofibrate are complementary. Pravastatin is more effective in 
reducing LDL-C and total cholesterol but presents only modest effects on TG and HDL-C while 
fenofibrate is more effective in decreasing TG and increasing HDL-C levels, but with few effects on 
LDL-C.  
The benefits with Pravafenix are its ability to effectively lower lipid parameters in the subgroup of high 
coronary heart disease -risk adult patients with mixed dyslipidaemia defined as TG >204mg/dl and 
HDL-C <34mg/dL. The most common side effects are: abdominal distension, abdominal pain, 
abdominal pain upper, constipation, diarrhoea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, nausea, 
abdominal discomfort, vomiting, and increased transaminases. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pravafenix will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is: “Pravafenix is indicated for the treatment of high coronary heart disease 
(CHD) -risk adult patients with mixed dyslipidaemia characterised by high triglycerides and low HDL-
cholesterol levels whose LDL-C levels are adequately controlled while on a treatment with pravastatin 
40 mg monotherapy.”  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Pravafenix and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Pravafenix  
EMA/37551/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
