14 April 2011 
EMA/CHMP/295989/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Simponi 
golimumab 
On 14 April 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Simponi. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen Biologics 
B.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive 
psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has been shown to reduce the rate of 
progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical 
subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Simponi will be as follows2: 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
Simponi, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for:  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy including MTX has been inadequate.  
 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with MTX. 
Simponi, in combination with MTX, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage 
as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function.  
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive 
psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has been shown to reduce the rate of 
progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular 
symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to improve physical function. 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Simponi is indicated for the treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis in adults who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Simponi  
EMA/CHMP/295989/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
