19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/411215/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xofigo 
Radium-223 chloride 
On 19 September 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xofigo, 1000 kBq/mL, solution for injection, intended for the treatment of adults with castration-
resistant prostate cancer, symptomatic bone metastases and no known visceral metastases. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xofigo is radium-223 chloride, a therapeutic pharmaceutical (ATC Code: 
V10XX03) that mimics calcium and preferentially targets bone, thereby relaying high linear energy 
from alpha radiation emitters generated during its radioactive decay to adjacent cells which is claimed 
to affect bone turnover (inhibition of osteoclast differentiation and osteoblast activity) and to be 
cytotoxic to cancer cells of bone metastases. 
The benefits with Xofigo are its ability to improve survival and to delay skeletal-related events (such as 
pathological fractures, spinal cord compression and use of radiation to relieve symptoms or surgery to 
treat complications). The most common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and 
thrombocytopenia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xofigo will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Xofigo is indicated for the treatment of adults with castration-resistant 
prostate cancer, symptomatic bone metastases and no known visceral metastases”. It is proposed that 
Xofigo should be administered only by persons authorised to handle radiopharmaceuticals in 
designated clinical settings and after evaluation of the patient by a qualified physician.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xofigo and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Xofigo 
EMA/CHMP/411215/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
