15 December 2011 
EMA/679632/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Esmya 
ulipristal acetate 
On  15  December  2011,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Esmya, 5mg, tablet, intended for pre-operative treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine 
fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The duration of treatment is limited to 3 months. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is PregLem France SAS. They may request a re-examination of 
any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of  their  intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Esmya  is  ulipristal  acetate,  a  selective  progesterone  receptor  modulator, 
characterised  by  a  tissue-specific  partial  progesterone  antagonist  effect.  It  acts  by  depriving  uterine 
fibroids of growth stimulation due to progesterone.  
The treatment consists of one tablet of 5 mg to be taken orally once daily for up to 3 months, and it 
should be started during the first week of a menstrual cycle. There are no data available on treatment 
with a duration longer than 3 months or on repeat courses of treatment. Therefore, treatment duration 
should not exceed 3 months. 
The  benefits  with  Esmya  are  its  ability  to  reduce  fibroid-related  bleeding,  anaemia  and  fibroid  size.  
Ulipristal  showed  better  efficacy  compared  to  placebo  (a  dummy)  at  reducing  bleeding  and  anaemia, 
and fibroid volume. 
The most common side effects are amenorrhea, endometrial thickening and hot flush. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for ulipristal will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is: "Ulipristal acetate is indicated for pre-operative treatment of moderate to 
severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women of reproductive age. The duration of treatment is 
limited to 3 months (see section 4.4)".   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Esmya and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Esmya 
EMA/679632/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
