28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/282935/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Lynparza 
olaparib 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lynparza. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication in adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. For information, the full indications 
for Lynparza will be as follows:2 
Ovarian cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the: 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) 
BRCA1/2-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or 
primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of 
first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. 
•  maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade epithelial 
ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to 
platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Breast cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline 
BRCA1/2-mutations, who have HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. 
Patients should have previously been treated with an anthracycline and a taxane in the 
(neo)adjuvant or metastatic setting unless patients were not suitable for these treatments (see 
section 5.1).  
Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should also have progressed on or 
after prior endocrine therapy, or be considered unsuitable for endocrine therapy. 
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
with germline BRCA1/2-mutations who have metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
pancreas and have not progressed after a minimum of 16 weeks of platinum treatment 
within a first-line chemotherapy regimen. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Lynparza  
EMA/CHMP/282935/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
