18 October 2012 
EMA/CHMP/545417/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Amyvid 
Florbetapir (18F) 
On 18 October 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Amyvid, 
1900 MBq/mL and 800 MBq/mL solution for injection, intended for Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET) diagnostic imaging of β-amyloid neuritic plaque density in the brain.  
The active substance of Amyvid is florbetapir (18F), a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical (V09AX05) which 
binds to ß-amyloid neuritic plaques in the brain grey matter. These are present in some 
neurodegenerative dementias, including Alzheimer’s disease.  
The benefits with Amyvid are its ability to evidence the presence of β-amyloid neuritic plaques, whose 
absence can help exclude the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease. At present there is no evidence that 
diagnosis with Amyvid will result in improvement in management and outcome of patients with AD.   
It has also not been established whether the presence of β-amyloid neuritic plaques in patients with 
minimal cognitive impairment predicts the development of AD. 
The most common side effects are headache and taste alterations (dysgeusia).  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Amyvid will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Amyvid is a radiopharmaceutical indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of 
β-amyloid neuritic plaque density in the brains of adult patients with cognitive impairment who are 
being evaluated for Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and other causes of cognitive impairment. Amyvid should 
be used in conjunction with a clinical evaluation.  
A negative scan indicates sparse or no plaques, which is not consistent with a diagnosis of AD. For the 
limitations in the interpretation of a positive scan, see sections 4.4 and 5.1.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
It is proposed that a PET scan with Amyvid should be requested by physicians skilled in the clinical 
management of neurodegenerative disorders. Amyvid images should only be interpreted by readers 
trained in the interpretation of PET images with florbetapir (18F).  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Amyvid and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Amyvid 
EMA/CHMP/545417/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
