28 January 2016  
EMA/CHMP/15062/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Coagadex 
Human coagulation factor X 
On 28 January 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Coagadex, 
intended for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding episodes and for perioperative management in 
patients with hereditary factor X deficiency. Coagadex was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 17 
September 2007. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bio Products Laboratory Limited. 
Coagadex will be available as 250 IU and 500 IU powder and solvent for solution for injection. The active 
substance of Coagadex is factor X, an anti-haemorrhagic (ATC code: B02BD13). It works as replacement 
therapy and temporarily increases plasma levels of factor X, helping to prevent and control bleeding. 
The benefits with Coagadex are its ability to stop bleeding when given on demand and prevent bleeding 
when used as routine prophylaxis or for surgical procedures. The most common side effects are back pain, 
redness or pain at the site of the infusion and tiredness. 
The full indication is: "Coagadex is indicated for treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding episodes and for 
perioperative management in patients with hereditary factor X deficiency”.  It is proposed that Coagadex be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of rare bleeding disorders 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
