18 May 2017 
EMA/CHMP/308697/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
On 18 May 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, intended for the treatment of HIV infection. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Zentiva k.s. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva contains as active substances the antiretrovirals 
efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil (ATC code: J05AR06). The medicine will be available as 
film-coated tablets (600 mg/200 mg/245 mg). Efavirenz activity is mediated by non-competitive 
inhibition of HIV reverse transcriptase while emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil are substrates and 
competitive inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the 
viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination.  
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a generic of Atripla, which has been authorised in 
the EU since 13 December 2007. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva and its bioequivalence to the reference product 
Atripla. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: "Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a fixed-dose combination of 
efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. It is indicated for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic suppression to 
HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than 
three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy 
and must be known not to have harboured virus strains with mutations conferring significant resistance to 
any of the three components contained in Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva prior to 
initiation of their first antiretroviral treatment regimen (see sections 4.4 and 5.1)." 
It is proposed that Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva  
EMA/CHMP/308697/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
