23 July 2020 
EMA/CHMP/367248/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jyseleca 
filgotinib 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Jyseleca, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead 
Sciences Ireland UC. 
Jyseleca will be available as 100 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Jyseleca is 
filgotinib, an immunosuppressants (ATC code: L04AA45). Filgotinib is an adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
competitive and reversible inhibitor of the Janus kinase (JAK) family. 
The benefits with Jyseleca are its ability to reduce the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The most 
common side effects are nausea, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection and dizziness. 
The most common serious adverse reactions are serious infections. 
The full indication is:  
Jyseleca is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult 
patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease 
modifying anti rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Jyseleca may be used as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate (MTX).  
It is proposed that treatment with Jyseleca should be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
