13 December 2012 
EMA/CHMP/803313/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Perjeta 
pertuzumab 
On  13  December  2012,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  
Perjeta, 420 mg, concentrate for solution for infusion intended for use in combination with trastuzumab 
and docetaxel in adult patients with HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast 
cancer,  who  have  not  received  previous  anti-HER2  therapy  or  chemotherapy  for  their  metastatic 
disease.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Roche  Registration  Ltd.They  may  request  a  re-
examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Perjeta  is  pertuzumab,  a  recombinant  humanised  monoclonal  antibody  (ATC 
Code  L01  XC13)  that  targets  the  extracellular  dimerization  domain  (subdomain  II)  of  the  human 
epidermal  growth  factor  receptor  2  protein  (HER2),  and  thereby,  blocks  ligand-dependent 
heterodimerisation of HER2 with other HER family members, including EGFR, HER3 and HER4. Perjeta 
inhibits  ligand-initiated  intracellular  signalling  through  two  major  signal  pathways,  mitogen-activated 
protein (MAP) kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). Inhibition of these signalling pathways can 
result  in  cell  growth  arrest  and  apoptosis,  respectively.  In  addition,  Perjeta  mediates  antibody-
dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). 
The  benefits  with  Perjeta  are  its  ability  to  improve  progression-free  survival  (PFS),  overall  survival 
(OS) and objective response rate (ORR) in patients treated with pertuzumab compared to placebo. The 
most common side effects are were diarrhoea, alopecia, leucopenia and (febrile) neutropenia.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Perjeta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.   
The approved indication is: "Perjeta is indicated for use in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel 
in  adult  patients  with  HER2-positive  metastatic  or  locally  recurrent  unresectable  breast  cancer,  who 
have  not  received  previous  anti-HER2  therapy  or  chemotherapy  for  their  metastatic  disease."  It  is 
proposed  that  Perjeta  be  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  administration  of  anticancer 
agents. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit-to-risk  balance  for  Perjeta  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing. 
Perjeta 
EMA/CHMP/803313/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
