18 November 2010 
EMA/CHMP/659548/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Entacapone Teva 
entacapone 
On 18 November 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Entacapone Teva, 200 mg, Film-coated tablets. Entacapone Teva is indicated as an adjunct to standard 
preparations of levodopa/benserazide or levodopa/carbidopa for use in adult patients with Parkinson’s 
disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations, who cannot be stabilised on those combinations. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Entacapone Teva is entacapone, an other dopaminergic agent ( N04BX02) 
which prolongs the clinical response to levodopa. This is achieved by decreasing the metabolic loss of 
levodopa to 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) by inhibiting the COMT enzyme, which in turn leads to a higher 
levodopa AUC. Thus the amount of levodopa available to the brain is increased.  
Entacapone Teva is a generic of Comtess, which has been authorised in the EU since 16-09-1998. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Entacapone Teva, and its bioequivalence with 
the reference product Comtess. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Entacapone Teva will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: as an adjunct to standard preparations of levodopa/benserazide or 
levodopa/carbidopa for use in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor 
fluctuations, who cannot be stabilised on those combinations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 74 18 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Entacapone Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Entacapone Teva  
EMA/CHMP/659548/2010  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
