17 March 2011 
EMA/CHMP/217963/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cinryze 
C1 inhibitor, human 
On 17 March 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion on the risk-benefit balance of the medicinal product Cinryze, 500 U, powder and solvent for 
solution for injection intended for the treatment and pre-procedure prevention of angioedema attacks 
in adults and adolescents with hereditary angioedema (HAE) and for the routine prevention of 
angioedema attacks in adults and adolescents with severe and recurrent attacks of hereditary 
angioedema (HAE), who are intolerant to or insufficiently protected by oral prevention treatments, or 
patients who are inadequately managed with repeated acute treatment. Cinryze was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 8 October 2009. The applicant for this medicinal product is ViroPharma 
SPRL, Brussels, Belgium. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Cinryze is C1 inhibitor, human, proteinase inhibitors (B02AB03), a naturally 
occurring protein normally present in human plasma. Cinryze increases the levels of functional C1 
inhibitor in patients with deficient or decreased levels of C1 inhibitor, which lead to swelling attacks.  
The benefits with Cinryze are its ability to raise the amount of C1 inhibitor in blood and to stop or 
prevent swelling attacks in hereditary angioedema patients. The most common side effect is rash. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cinryze will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Treatment and pre-procedure prevention of angioedema attacks in adults 
and adolescents with hereditary angioedema (HAE). Routine prevention of angioedema attacks in 
adults and adolescents with severe and recurrent attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE), who are 
intolerant to or insufficiently protected by oral prevention treatments, or patients who are inadequately 
managed with repeated acute treatment.”.  
It is proposed that Cinryze is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of hereditary 
angioedema (HAE).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after a marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Cinryze.   
However, the CHMP notes that pursuant to the Commission Communication on the Community 
marketing authorisation procedures for medicinal products (98/C 229/03), Viropharma is to be 
considered as the same applicant/marketing authorisation holder as Sanquin, which holds marketing 
authorisations in a number of Member States for a medicinal product containing the same qualitative 
and quantitative composition in active substance(s) and pharmaceutical form and having overlapping 
indication(s) as Cinryze. These particulars may preclude the granting of a marketing authorisation for 
Cinryze. 
Cinryze  
EMA/CHMP/217963/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
