27 June 2013 
EMA/380955/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cholib 
fenofibrate/simvastatin 
On 27 June, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Cholib 
145mg/40mg and 145mg/20mg, film-coated tablets, intended to be indicated as adjunctive therapy to 
diet  and  exercise  in  high  cardiovascular  risk  adult  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidaemia  to  reduce 
triglycerides and increase HDL cholesterol levels when LDL cholesterol levels are adequately controlled 
with  the  corresponding  dose  of  simvastatin  monotherapy  20  mg  or  40  mg.  The  applicant  for  this 
medicinal product is Abbott Healthcare Products Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  European  Medicines  Agency  in  writing  of  their  intention  within  15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substances  of  Cholib  are  fenofibrate/simvastatin;  Cholib  being  a  combination  of  two  lipid 
modifying  substances  (HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  in  combination  with  other  lipid  modifying 
substances,  ATC  code  C10BA04).  Fenofibrate,  a  Peroxisome  Proliferator-Activated  Receptor  (PPAR)α 
agonist,  reduces  both,  low-density  lipoprotein  (LDL)  and  very  low  density  lipoprotein  (VLDL)  levels, 
increases  high-density  lipoprotein  (HDL)  levels  and  reduces  triglycerides  levels.  Simvastatin  is  an 
inhibitor  of  3-Hydroxy-3-MethylGlutaryl-Coenzyme  A  (HMG-CoA)  reductase  and  has  been  shown  to 
reduce both normal and elevated LDL cholesterol concentrations.  
The  benefits  with  Cholib  are  the  complementary  lipid-modifying  respective  effects  of  simvastatin  and 
fenofibrate.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  upper  respiratory  tract  infection,  gastroenteritis, 
increased platelet count and increased alanine aminotransferase and blood creatinine. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cholib will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
"Cholib is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise in high cardiovascular risk adult patients 
with mixed dyslipidaemia to reduce triglycerides and increase HDL C levels when LDL C levels are 
adequately controlled with the corresponding dose of simvastatin monotherapy.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Cholib and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Cholib 
EMA/380955/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
