23 February 2023 
EMA/CHMP/55479/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hyftor 
sirolimus 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Hyftor2, 
intended for the treatment of angiofibroma. The applicant for this medicinal product is Plusultra pharma 
GmbH. 
Hyftor will be available as a 2 mg/g gel. The active substance of Hyftor is sirolimus, an 
immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA).  Sirolimus binds to the immunophilin FKBP-12 to generate an 
immunosuppressive complex. This complex, in turn, binds to and inhibits the activation of the 
serine/threonine protein kinase mTOR which regulates cellular metabolism, growth and proliferation. 
The benefit of Hyftor is a clinically relevant improvement over placebo in angiofibroma size, extension and 
redness,  as  observed  in  a  randomised,  double  blind,  Phase  III  study  in  patients  with  tuberous  sclerosis 
complex who had facial angiofibromas. The most common side effects are skin irritation events, including 
application site irritation, dry skin, acne and pruritus. 
Hyftor is a hybrid medicine3 of Rapamune, which has been authorised in the EU since 13 March 2001. 
Hyftor contains the same active substance as Rapamune, but Hyftor is available as a gel intended for 
local administration. 
The full indication is: 
Hyftor is indicated for the treatment of facial angiofibroma associated with tuberous sclerosis 
complex in adults and paediatric patients aged 6 years and older. 
Hyftor should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of facial angiofibroma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
3 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Hyftor  
EMA/CHMP/55479/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
