20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/325725/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Degarelix Accord 
degarelix acetate 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Degarelix 
Accord, intended for the treatment of hormone dependent prostate cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Degarelix Accord will be available as an 80 mg and 120 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection. 
The active substance of Degarelix Accord is degarelix acetate, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor 
antagonist (ATC code: L02BX02). Degarelix binds to receptors in the pituitary gland resulting in 
decreased secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, thereby reducing the 
secretion of testosterone by the testes, which slows down the growth of prostate cancer cells.  
Degarelix Accord is a generic of Firmagon which has been authorised in the EU since 17 February 2009. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Degarelix Accord, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Firmagon. A bioequivalence study versus the reference product Firmagon was not 
required because of the qualitative and quantitative compositions and the nature and behaviour of the 
products. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Degarelix Accord is a gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist indicated: 
• 
• 
• 
for treatment of adult male patients with advanced hormone-dependent prostate cancer. 
for treatment of high-risk localised and locally advanced hormone dependent prostate 
cancer in combination with radiotherapy. 
as neo-adjuvant treatment prior to radiotherapy in patients with high-risk localised or locally 
advanced hormone dependent prostate cancer 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Degarelix Accord  
EMA/CHMP/325725/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
