13 October 2016 
EMA/CHMP/635107/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rekovelle 
follitropin delta 
On 13 October 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rekovelle, 
intended for controlled ovarian stimulation in women undergoing assisted reproductive technologies (ART). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Ferring Pharmaceuticals A/S. 
Rekovelle will be available as a solution for injection (12 µg/0.36 ml, 36 µg/1.08 ml and 72 µg/2.16 ml). The 
active substance of Rekovelle is follitropin delta, a recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 
belonging to the pharmacotherapeutic class of gonadotropins (ATC code: G03GA10). The amino acid 
sequences of the two FSH subunits in follitropin delta are identical to the endogenous human FSH 
sequences.  
The benefits with Rekovelle are its ability to stimulate the development of multiple mature follicles in the 
ovaries. The most common side effects are headache, pelvic discomfort, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome 
(OHSS), pelvic or adnexal pain, nausea and fatigue. 
The full indication is:  
“Controlled ovarian stimulation for the development of multiple follicles in women undergoing assisted 
reproductive technologies (ART) such as an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection 
(ICSI) cycle. There is no clinical trial experience with Rekovelle in the long GnRH agonist protocol”. 
It is proposed that Rekovelle be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of fertility problems. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
