16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/622322/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Oxbryta 
voxelotor 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Oxbryta2, 
intended for the treatment of haemolytic anaemia due to sickle cell disease. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Global Blood Therapeutics Netherlands B.V. 
Oxbryta will be available as 500 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Oxbryta is voxelotor 
(ATC code: B06AX03), a small molecule which binds reversibly to haemoglobin, stabilizing the 
oxygenated haemoglobin state and preventing HbS polymerization by increasing haemoglobin’s affinity 
for oxygen. 
The benefits of Oxbryta are an increase in haemoglobin and a decrease in laboratory markers indicative 
of haemolysis. The most common side effects were headache, diarrhoea, and abdominal pain.  
The full indication is: 
Oxbryta is indicated for the treatment of haemolytic anaemia due to sickle cell disease (SCD) in 
adults and paediatric patients 12 years of age and older as monotherapy or in combination with 
hydroxycarbamide. 
Oxbryta should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of sickle cell disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
