European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/344171/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
REVOLADE 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): eltrombopag 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Revolade, 25 mg and 50 mg, film coated tablets intended for the treatment of adult chronic immune 
(idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). 
Revolade was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 03 August 2007. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Revolade  is  eltrombopag  olamine,  an  antihemorrhagic  medicinal  product 
(ATC Code B02BX05) that increases platelet production. Revolade is a small molecule that activates 
intracellular transcriptional pathways via the thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor. 
The  benefits  with  Revolade  have  been  shown  in  two  phase  III,  placebo-controlled,  double-blind 
studies  in  adults  with  ITP.  In  both  studies,  efficacy  has  been  shown  in  terms  of  a  durable  platelet 
response compared to patients receiving placebo. The most common side effects are headache, nausea, 
alanineaminotransferase  increased,  aminotransferase  increased,  diarrhoea,  fatigue,  paraesthesia, 
constipation, 
increased,  cataract,  arthralgia,  myalgia  and 
hyperbilirubinaemia. 
rash,  pruritus,  blood  bilirubin 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Revolade, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  ‘Revolade  is  indicated  for  adult  chronic  immune  (idiopathic) 
thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) splenectomised patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. 
corticosteroids,  immunoglobulins).  Revolade  may  be  considered  as  second  line  treatment  for  adult 
non-splenectomised patients where surgery is contraindicated’. 
It  is  proposed  that  Revolade  treatment  should  remain  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  who  is 
experienced in the treatment of haematological diseases.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Revolade  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
