16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/500803/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vumerity 
diroximel fumarate 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Vumerity, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Vumerity  will  be  available  as  231  mg  gastro-resistant  capsules.  The  active  substance  of  Vumerity  is 
diroximel  fumarate  (ATC  code:  L04AX).  The  mechanism  by  which  diroximel  fumarate  works  in  multiple 
sclerosis  is  not  fully  understood.  Diroximel  fumarate  acts  via  the  major  active  metabolite,  monomethyl 
fumarate (MMF).  
This marketing authorisation application is based on a pharmacologic bridging approach to the authorised 
product dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera). Bioequivalence to dimethyl fumarate has been shown for the active 
moiety  MMF.  Therefore,  the  benefits  of  Vumerity  are  expected  to  be  the  same  as  those  of  Tecfidera, 
including the reduction of the risk of the appearance of relapses and inflammatory lesions in the central 
nervous system.  
Similarly to Tecfidera, the most common side effects are flushing and gastrointestinal events. 
The full indication is: 
Vumerity is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(see section 5.1 for important information on the populations for which efficacy has been 
established). 
Vumerity should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Vumerity  
EMA/CHMP/500803/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
