27 November 2013 
EMA/167897/2013/Rev 2 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tecfidera 
Dimethyl fumarate 
On 21 March 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tecfidera 
120 mg and 240 mg, gastro-resistant hard capsules, intended for the treatment of adult patients with 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Biogen Idec Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The approved indication is: "treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis".  
The active substance of Tecfidera is dimethyl fumarate, a nervous system drug (N07XX09), that 
primarily acts by triggering the activation of the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) 
transcriptional pathway.  
The benefits with Tecfidera are its ability to reduce the number of relapses in patients with relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis. The most common side effects are flushing and gastrointestinal events 
(e.g. diarrhoea, nausea and abdominal pain).  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tecfidera will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
Treatment with Tecfidera should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of the disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considered there to be a 
favourable benefit-risk balance for Tecfidera and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Update  
Without  prejudice  to  the  conclusions  reached  by  the  CHMP  in  March  2013  on  the  favourable 
benefit-risk balance of Tecfidera, the decision making process at the European Commission was put on 
hold  at  the  request  of  the  applicant.  Subsequently,  in  September  2013,  the  applicant  requested  a 
CHMP assessment on whether the active substance of Tecfidera, dimethyl fumarate, qualifies as a new 
active substance under Directive 2001/83/EC.  
The  CHMP  has  now  completed  its  assessment  and  considers  that  dimethyl  fumarate  is  different  from 
Fumaderm 2 .  Therefore,  the  active  substance  of  Tecfidera,  dimethyl  fumarate,  is  a  new  active 
substance.  This  conclusion  is  based  on  the  review  of  the  scientific  evidence,  and  in  line  with 
clarification provided by the European Commission that: 
i)  a  new  active  substance  under  Directive  2001/83/EC  is  a  chemical  substance  not  previously 
authorised as a medicinal product in the European Union (Annex I to the Notice to applicants 
Volume 2A, Procedures for marketing authorisation, Chapter 1, Marketing authorisations, June 
2013) and, 
ii)  dimethyl  fumarate  is  part  of  the  medicinal  product  Fumaderm  authorised  in  1994  in 
Germany,  but  it  has  not  been  previously  authorised  as  a  medicinal  product  in  the  European 
Union. 
The outcome of the CHMP assessment will now be sent to the European Commission for the completion 
of the decision making process. 
2 Fumaderm is composed of dimethyl fumarate, calcium salt of ethyl fumarate, magnesium salt of ethyl hydrogen fumarate 
and zinc salt of ethyl hydrogen fumarate 
Tecfidera 
EMA/167897/2013/Rev 2 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
