17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/542297/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Baqsimi 
glucagon 
On 17 October 2019 , the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Baqsimi, 
intended for the treatment of severe hypoglycaemia. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Baqsimi will be available as 3 mg nasal powder. The active substance of Baqsimi is glucagon, a pancreatic 
hormone (ATC code: H04AA01); glucagon increases blood glucose concentration by stimulating glycogen 
breakdown and release of glucose from the liver. 
The benefits with Baqsimi are its ability to restore blood glucose levels in hypoglycaemic subjects.  The most 
common side effects are watery eyes, upper respiratory tract irritation, nausea, headache and vomiting. 
The full indication is: “Baqsimi  is indicated for the treatment of severe hypoglycaemia in adults, adolescents, 
and children aged 4 years and over with diabetes mellitus.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
