22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/368672/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Orencia 
abatacept 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Orencia. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Orencia, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of 
active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adult patients when the response to previous DMARD therapy 
including MTX has been inadequate, and for whom additional systemic therapy for psoriatic skin 
lesions is not required.” 
For information, the full indications for Orencia will be as follows2: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Orencia, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
 
the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who 
responded inadequately to previous therapy with one or more disease-modifying anti-
rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) including methotrexate (MTX) or a tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-
alpha inhibitor. 
 
the treatment of highly active and progressive disease in adult patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate. 
A reduction in the progression of joint damage and improvement of physical function have been 
demonstrated during combination treatment with abatacept and methotrexate. 
Psoriatic Arthritis 
Orencia, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adult patients when the response to 
previous DMARD therapy including MTX has been inadequate, and for whom additional 
systemic therapy for psoriatic skin lesions is not required. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Orencia in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in paediatric patients 6 years of age and 
older who have had an insufficient response to other DMARDs including at least one TNF 
inhibitor.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Orencia  
EMA/CHMP/368672/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
