12 December 2019 
EMA/CHMP/595680/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Azacitidine Accord 
azacitidine 
On 12 December 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Azacitidine 
Accord, intended for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia and 
acute myeloid leukaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Azacitidine Accord will be available as a 25 mg/ml powder for suspension for injection. The active substance 
of Azacitidine Accord is azacitidine, a pyrimidine analogue (ATC code: L01BC07) which exerts its 
antineoplastic effects by multiple mechanisms, including cytotoxicity on cells in the bone marrow and 
hypomethylation of DNA. 
Azacitidine Accord is a generic of Vidaza, which has been authorised in the EU since 17 December 2008. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Azacitidine Accord. Since Azacitidine Accord is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product 
Vidaza was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Azacitidine Accord is indicated for the treatment of adult patients who are not eligible for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) with: 
• 
• 
• 
Intermediate 2 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) according to the International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML) with 10 29 % marrow blasts without myeloproliferative 
disorder, 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20 30 % blasts and multi-lineage dysplasia, according to World 
Health Organisation (WHO) classification,  
•  AML with >30% marrow blasts according to the WHO classification.” 
It is proposed that Azacitidine Accord be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
chemotherapeutic agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Azacitidine Accord  
EMA/CHMP/595680/2019 
Page 2/2 
Classified as public by the European Medicines Agency 
 
  
  
