14 September 2017 
EMA/CHMP/574018/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zejula 
niraparib 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zejula, 
intended for the maintenance treatment of ovarian cancer. Zejula was designated as an orphan medicinal 
product on 4 August 2010. The applicant for this medicinal product is Tesaro UK Limited. 
Zejula will be available as capsules (100 mg). The active substance of Zejula is niraparib, an inhibitor of 
poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes, PARP-1 and PARP-2, which play a role in DNA repair (ATC 
code: L01XX54). The inhibition of PARP enzymatic activity and increased formation of PARP-DNA 
complexes results in DNA damage and tumour cell death. 
The benefits with Zejula are its ability to improve patients’ progression-free survival compared with 
placebo. The most common side effects are nausea, thrombocytopenia, fatigue/asthenia, anaemia, 
constipation, vomiting, abdominal pain, neutropenia, insomnia, headache, decreased appetite, 
nasopharyngitis, diarrhoea, dyspnea, hypertension, dyspepsia, back pain, dizziness, cough, urinary tract 
infection, arthralgia, palpitations and dysgeusia. 
The full indication is: "Zejula is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients 
with platinum-sensitive relapsed high grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy." 
It is proposed that Zejula be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer 
medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
