23 June 2011 
EMA/CHMP/450821/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinionF
1
F (initial authorisation) 
Trajenta 
linagliptin 
On 23 June 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Trajenta, 
5 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic 
control. The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Trajenta is linagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor (ATC code: 
A10BH05). 
The benefit with Trajenta is its ability to lower blood glucose (by means of lowering of the HbA1c). The 
most common side effect is an increased incidence of hypoglycaemia (this effect was most pronounced 
when linagliptin was added to a background treatment of metformin and sulfonylurea). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Trajenta will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Trajenta is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control in 
adults: 
as monotherapy 
 
in patients inadequately controlled by diet and exercise alone and for whom metformin is 
inappropriate due to intolerance, or contraindicated due to renal impairment. 
as combination therapy 
 
in combination with metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide 
adequate glycaemic control. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
in combination with a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with 
these medicinal products do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Trajenta and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Trajenta  
EMA/CHMP/450821/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
