European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 October 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/669325/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ADCIRCA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tadalafil 
On  22  October  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Adcirca. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Adcirca is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO 
functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy has been shown in idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and in PAH related to collagen vascular disease.” 
The CHMP also adopted the removal of an indication as follows: 
“Treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
In order for tadalafil to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
Adcirca is not indicated for use by women.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Adcirca will be as follows***: 
“Adcirca is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) classified as 
WHO functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy  has  been  shown  in  idiopathic  PAH  (IPAH)  and  in  PAH  related  to  collagen  vascular 
disease.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
