27 June 2013 
EMA/328140/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nexium Control 
esomeprazole 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nexium 
Control, 20 mg, gastro-resistant tablet intended for the short-term treatment of reflux symptoms (e.g. 
heartburn and acid regurgitation) in adults. This medicinal product is to be made available as a non-
prescription medicine.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
The active substance of Nexium Control is esomeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor (A02BC05) and 
inhibits specifically the gastric H+/K+-ATPase enzyme, which is responsible for acid secretion in the 
parietal cells of the stomach.  
The benefits with Nexium Control are its ability to relieve gastroesophageal reflux symptoms (e.g. 
heartburn and acid regurgitation). The most common side effects are headache and gastrointestinal 
disorders, i.e., abdominal pain, diarrhoea, flatulence, nausea/vomiting and constipation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Nexium Control will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Nexium Control is indicated for the short-term treatment of reflux 
symptoms (e.g. heartburn and acid regurgitation) in adults.".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Nexium Control and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Nexium Control 
EMA/CHMP/328140/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
