25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/229752/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Incresync 
alogliptin/pioglitazone 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for Incresync, 12.5 mg / 45 mg, 
12.5 mg / 30 mg, 25 mg / 45 mg and 25 mg / 30 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of 
type 2 diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Takeda Pharma A/S. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Incresync are alogliptin/pioglitazone (A10BD09), a combination of two blood 
glucose-lowering products:  alogliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP 4) inhibitor which reduces the 
cleavage and inactivation of the active (intact) form of the incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide 1 
(GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), producing an elevation of incretin 
concentrations that leads to an enhancement of glucose-dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in 
glucagon release. Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione and acts via activation of a specific nuclear 
receptor (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma) leading to increased insulin sensitivity of 
liver, fat and skeletal muscle cells. 
The benefit of Incresync is its effect on glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes when used in 
combination with metformin or in patients inadequately controlled on pioglitazone alone. The most 
common side effects of alogliptin as add-on therapy to pioglitazone are upper respiratory tract 
infections, sinusitis, headache, nausea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, pruritus, myalgia, peripheral 
oedema and weight increase.  
Pioglitazone can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or precipitate heart failure. Cases of 
bladder cancer were reported more frequently in a meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials with 
pioglitazone, and available epidemiological data suggests a small increased risk of bladder cancer in 
diabetic patients treated with pioglitazone. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Incresync will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The approved indication is: “Incresync is indicated as a second or third line treatment in adult patients 
aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
 
as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients 
(particularly overweight patients) inadequately controlled on pioglitazone alone, and for 
whom metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
 
in combination with metformin (i.e. triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult patients (particularly overweight patients) 
inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin and pioglitazone. 
In addition, Incresync can be used to replace separate tablets of alogliptin and pioglitazone in those 
adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus already being treated with this 
combination. 
After initiation of therapy with Incresync, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to assess 
adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show an adequate 
response, Incresync should be discontinued. In light of potential risks with prolonged pioglitazone 
therapy, prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of Incresync is 
maintained (see section 4.4)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Incresync and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Incresync 
EMA/CHMP/229752/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
