28 February 2019 
EMA/CHMP/130311/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Waylivra 
volanesorsen 
On 28 February 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of conditional marketing authorisation2 for the medicinal product 
Waylivra, intended for the treatment of familial chylomicronaemia syndrome (FCS). Waylivra was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 19 February 2014. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
Waylivra will be available as a 285 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Waylivra is 
volanesorsen, an antisense oligonucleotide which inhibits the formation of apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III), a 
protein that regulates both triglyceride metabolism and hepatic clearance of chylomicrons and other 
triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. Inhibition of apoC-III increases clearance of triglycerides. 
The benefits with Waylivra are its ability to reduce levels of fasting triglycerides. The most common side 
effects are reduced platelet counts and injection site reactions. 
The full indication is: “an adjunct to diet in adult patients with genetically confirmed familial 
chylomicronaemia syndrome (FCS) and at high risk for pancreatitis, in whom response to diet and 
triglyceride lowering therapy has been inadequate.” It is proposed that Waylivra treatment should be 
initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with 
FCS. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
