19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/396600/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fampyra 
fampridine  
On 19 May 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Fampyra, 10mg prolonged-release tablet, intended to improve walking of adult patients suffering from 
multiple sclerosis with walking disability. The applicant for this medicinal product is Biogen Idec Ltd.  
The active substance of Fampyra is fampridine, a potassium channel blocker, ATC code: N07XX07. By 
blocking potassium channels, Fampyra reduces the leakage of ionic current through these channels, 
thereby prolonging repolarization and thus enhancing action potential formation in demyelinated axons 
and neurological function. Presumably, by enhancing action potential formation, more impulses might 
be conducted in the central nervous system. 
The benefit observed with Fampyra was its ability to improve walking, as measured by a Timed 25 Foot 
Walk Test and 12-item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale (a patient reported outcome measure).  
The most common side effects observed were urinary tract infection, insomnia, anxiety, dizziness, 
headache, balance disorder, paraesthesia, tremor, dyspnoea, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nausea, 
vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, back pain and asthenia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Fampyra will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Fampyra is indicated for the improvement of walking in adult patients with 
multiple sclerosis with walking disability (EDSS 4-7)”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Fampyra and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage 
Fampyra  
EMA/396600/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
