23 February 2023 
EMEA/CHMP/72305/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bekemv 
eculizumab 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bekemv, 
intended for the treatment of adults and children in paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH).   
The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Technology (Ireland) Unlimited Company. 
Bekemv will be available as a 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Bekemv is eculizumab, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA25). Bekemv is a recombinant 
humanised monoclonal IgG2/4k antibody that binds to the human C5 complement protein and thereby 
inhibits the activation of terminal complement.  
Bekemv is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Soliris 
(eculizumab), which was authorised in the EU on 20 June 2007. Data show that Bekemv has comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy to Soliris. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
BEKEMV is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (PNH). Evidence of clinical benefit is demonstrated in patients with haemolysis 
with clinical symptom(s) indicative of high disease activity, regardless of transfusion history (see 
section 5.1). 
Bekemv must be administered by a healthcare professional and under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the management of patients with haematological disorders. Unlike the reference product, 
Bekemv contains sorbitol. It is therefore contraindicated in patients with hereditary fructose intolerance 
(HFI), in whom sorbitol exposure may cause serious metabolic harms. It is also contraindicated in 
children under 2 years of age who may not yet be diagnosed with HFI.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Bekemv  
EMA/CHMP/72305/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
