26 January 2023 
EMA/CHMP/14158/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Dupixent 
dupilumab 
On 26 January 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Dupixent. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Sanofi Winthrop Industrie. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication to include treatment for atopic dermatitis in 
children from 6 months of age.  
For information, the full indications will be as follows:2 
Atopic dermatitis 
Adults and adolescents 
Dupixent is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adults and 
adolescents 12 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Children 6 months to 11 years of age 
Dupixent is indicated for the treatment of severe atopic dermatitis in children 6 months to 11 
years old who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Asthma 
Adults and adolescents  
Dupixent is indicated in adults and adolescents 12 years and older as add-on maintenance 
treatment for severe asthma with type 2 inflammation characterised by raised blood eosinophils 
and/or raised fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), see section 5.1, who are inadequately 
controlled with high dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus another medicinal product for 
maintenance treatment.  
Children 6 to 11 years of age 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dupixent is indicated in children 6 to 11 years old as add-on maintenance treatment for severe 
asthma with type 2 inflammation characterised by raised blood eosinophils and/or raised 
fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), see section 5.1, who are inadequately controlled with 
medium to high dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus another medicinal product for 
maintenance treatment.  
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis (CRSwNP)  
Dupixent is indicated as an add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids for the treatment of 
adults with severe CRSwNP for whom therapy with systemic corticosteroids and/or surgery do 
not provide adequate disease control. 
Prurigo Nodularis (PN) 
Dupixent is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe prurigo nodularis (PN) 
who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Dupixent  
EMA/CHMP/14158/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
