16 February 2012 
EMA/CHMP/106716/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Capecitabine Krka 
Capecitabine 
On 16 February 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Capecitabine Krka 150 mg, 300 mg, 500 mg film coated tablet intended for the treatment of colon, 
colorectal, gastric and breast cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Krka, d.d., Novo 
mesto. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Capecitabine Krka is capecitabine, an antineoplastic agent and more 
specifically an antimetabolite/pyrimidine analogue (L01BC06) which is an orally administered precursor 
of the well-known cytotoxic moiety 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). 
Capecitabine Krka 150 mg, 300 mg, 500 mg film coated tablet is a generic of Xeloda, which has been 
authorised in the EU since 02 February 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of 
Capecitabine Krka 150 mg, 300 mg and 500 mg film coated tablet and its bioequivalence with the 
reference product Xeloda. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
The approved indication is:  
“Capecitabine is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III (Dukes’ 
stage C) colon cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer in combination with a 
platinum based regimen. 
Capecitabine in combination with docetaxel is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine Krka is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated”. 
It is proposed that Capecitabine Krka be prescribed by qualified physicians experienced in the 
utilisation of antineoplastic agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Capecitabine Krka and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Capecitabine Krka 
EMA/CHMP/106716/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
