18 October 2012 
EMA/CHMP/582803/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tresiba 
insulin degludec 
On 18 October 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tresiba, 
100 units/ml and 200 units/ml, solution for injection, intended for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Tresiba is insulin degludec, a basal insulin. Insulin degludec binds specifically 
to the human insulin receptor and results in the same pharmacological effects as human insulin. The 
ATC code for Tresiba has not been assigned yet. Insulin degludec has been developed both as a 
100 units/ml formulation and a 200 units/ml formulation in order to accommodate a wide range of 
insulin requirements.  
The benefits with Tresiba are its ability to lower blood glucose levels and a lower risk of nocturnal 
hypoglycaemia when compared with insulin glargine. Despite positive effects on nocturnal 
hypoglycaemia overall hypoglycaemia remained the most common side effect. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tresiba will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults ".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Tresiba and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
