14 October 2021  
EMA/CHMP/561838/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xeljanz 
tofacitinib 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xeljanz. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication as follows:2  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Tofacitinib in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or 
who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (see 
section 5.1). Tofacitinib can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or when 
treatment with MTX is inappropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Tofacitinib in combination with MTX is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy (see section 5.1). 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS) who have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
ulcerative colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were intolerant to 
either conventional therapy or a biologic agent (see section 5.1).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(rheumatoid factor positive [RF+] or negative [RF-] polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis), and 
juvenile psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded 
inadequately to previous therapy with DMARDs.  
Tofacitinib can be given in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR) and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Xeljanz  
EMA/CHMP/561838/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
