25 January 2018 
EMA/CHMP/811505/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lamzede 
velmanase alfa 
On 25 January 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lamzede, 
intended for the treatment of patients with non-neurological manifestations of mild to moderate alpha-
mannosidosis. Lamzede was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 January 2005. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Lamzede will be available as 10 mg powder for solution for infusion. The active substance of Lamzede is 
velmanase alfa, a recombinant form of human alpha-mannosidase (ATC code: A16AB15). Lamzede is an 
enzyme replacement therapy intended to provide or supplement natural alpha-mannosidase, an enzyme 
that helps with the degradation of mannose–rich oligosaccharides and thus prevents their accumulation in 
various tissues in the body.  
The benefits of Lamzede are its ability to restore serum oligosaccharides to normal levels and improve 
exercise capacity and lung function in some patients. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, fever 
and weight increase. 
The full indication is: 
“Enzyme replacement therapy for the treatment of non-neurological manifestations in patients with mild 
to moderate alpha-mannosidosis.” It is proposed that Lamzede be prescribed by physicians experienced 
in the management of patients with alpha-mannosidosis, or in the administration of other enzyme 
replacement therapies for lysosomal storage disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
