20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/598685/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Poteligeo 
mogamulizumab 
On 20 September 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Poteligeo, 
intended for the treatment of mycosis fungoides (MF) or Sézary syndrome (SS), the most common subsets 
of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a rare form of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Poteligeo was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 14 October 2016. The applicant for this medicinal product is Kyowa Kirin 
Limited. 
Poteligeo will be available as a 4-mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Poteligeo is mogamulizumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC25) that selectively binds to CC 
chemokine receptor-4 (CCR4) expressed on the surface of some cancer cells including  T-cells of T-cell 
malignancies, such as MF and SS, resulting in depletion of the target cells. 
The benefits with Poteligeo are its ability to improve progression-free survival in patients. The most common 
side effects are drug eruption (including skin rash), infections (including upper respiratory tract infection and 
skin infections), infusion related reaction, headache, fatigue, peripheral oedema, pyrexia and 
gastrointestinal disorders (such as constipation, diarrhoea, nausea, stomatitis). 
The full indication is:  
“Poteligeo is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) or Sézary syndrome 
(SS) who have received at least one prior systemic therapy”. 
It is proposed that Poteligeo be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
