20 March 2014 
EMA/CHMP/66668/2014  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ebilfumin 
oseltamivir 
On 20 March 2014 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ebilfumin 
30 mg, 45 mg and 75 mg, hard capsules intended for the treatment and prevention of influenza. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ebilfumin is oseltamivir (as phosphate), a neuraminidase inhibitor, ATC Code: 
J05AH02. Oseltamivir phosphate is a pro-drug of the active metabolite (oseltamivir carboxylate). The 
active metabolite is a selective inhibitor of influenza virus neuraminidase enzymes, which are 
glycoproteins found on the virion surface. Viral neuraminidase enzyme activity is important both for 
viral entry into uninfected cells and for the release of recently formed virus particles from infected 
cells, and for the further spread of infectious virus in the body.  
Ebilfumin is a generic of Tamiflu which has been authorised in the EU since 20 June 2002. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ebilfumin, and its bioequivalence with the reference product 
Tamiflu. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ebilfumin will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Treatment of influenza 
- 
In  patients  one  year  of  age  and  older  who  present  with  symptoms  typical  of  influenza,  when 
influenza virus is circulating in the community.  
-  Ebilfumin  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  infants  less  than  1  year  of  age  during  a  pandemic 
influenza  outbreak  (see  section  5.2  of  the  SmPC).  The  treating  physician  should  take  into 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
account the pathogenicity of the circulating strain and the underlying condition of the patient to 
ensure there is a potential benefit to the child. 
Prevention of influenza 
-  Post-exposure prevention in individuals 1 year of age or older following contact with a clinically 
diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
-  The appropriate use of Ebilfumin for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case by 
case  basis  by  the  circumstances  and  the  population  requiring  protection.  In  exceptional 
situations (e.g. in case of a mismatch between the circulating and vaccine virus strains, and a 
pandemic situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in individuals one year of age or 
older. 
-  Ebilfumin  is  indicated  for  post-exposure  prevention  of  influenza  in  infants  less  than  1  year  of 
age during a pandemic influenza outbreak (see section 5.2 of the SmPC). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ebilfumin and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Ebilfumin  
EMA/CHMP/66668/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
