25 June 2015 
EMA/CHMP/359213/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kanuma 
sebelipase alfa 
On 25 June 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Kanuma, intended for the treatment of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency. Kanuma was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 17 December 2010. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Synageva BioPharma Ltd. 
Kanuma will be available as 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Kanuma is sebelipase alfa, a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase (rhLAL). 
The benefits with Kanuma are its ability to replace the activity of the missing enzyme resulting in 
reduced liver fat content and reduced levels of blood transaminases, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) 
cholesterol, non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and triglycerides. In addition, there was a 
significant benefit in terms of survival (67%) in infants with Wolman disease beyond 12 months.   
The most serious adverse reactions experienced by 3% of patients in clinical trials were signs and 
symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. Signs and symptoms included chest discomfort, 
conjunctival injection, dyspnoea, generalised and itchy rash, hyperaemia, mild eyelid oedema, 
rhinorrhoea, severe respiratory distress, tachycardia, tachypnoea and urticaria.  
The full indication is: "for long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) in patients of all ages with 
lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency.” It is proposed that Kanuma be prescribed by physicians 
experienced with the treatment of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency or other metabolic 
disorders or chronic liver disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
