20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/327338/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Abrysvo 
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) vaccine (bivalent, recombinant) 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Abrysvo, 
intended for the prevention of lower respiratory tract (LRT) disease caused by respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV). Abrysvo was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Abrysvo will be available as a powder and solvent to be made into a solution for injection. The active 
substances of Abrysvo are two recombinant stabilised RSV prefusion F antigens representing the 
subgroups RSV-A and RSV-B (ATC code: J07BX05). Abrysvo induces the production of specific antibodies 
against the prefusion F protein, which inhibits RSV infection and thereby protects against RSV-associated 
LRT disease. 
The benefit of Abrysvo is the prevention of RSV-confirmed lower respiratory tract disease. The most 
common side effects are injection site pain, myalgia and headache. 
The full indication is: 
Abrysvo is indicated for: 
• 
Passive protection against lower respiratory tract disease caused by respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) in infants from birth through 6 months of age following maternal immunisation 
during pregnancy. See sections 4.2 and 5.1. 
•  Active immunisation of individuals 60 years of age and older for the prevention of lower 
respiratory tract disease caused by RSV. 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Abrysvo  
EMA/CHMP/327338/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
