18 May 2017  
EMA/CHMP/297602/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Oxervate 
cenegermin 
On 18 May 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Oxervate, 
intended for the treatment of moderate to severe neurotrophic keratitis. Oxervate, which was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 14 December 2015, was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated 
assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Dompé farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Oxervate will be available as a 20 microgram/ml eye drops solution. The active substance of Oxervate is 
cenegermin, a recombinant form of human nerve growth factor, which exerts a trophic effect and induces 
corneal epithelial cell growth and survival. 
The benefits with Oxervate are its ability to stimulate corneal healing and restore ocular surface integrity 
in patients with neurotrophic keratitis suffering from persistent epithelial defects or corneal ulcers. The 
most common side effects are eye pain, eye inflammation, increased lacrimation and foreign body 
sensation in the eye. 
The full indication is: "Treatment of moderate (persistent epithelial defect) or severe (corneal ulcer) 
neurotrophic keratitis in adults". It is proposed that Oxervate treatment be initiated and supervised by an 
ophthalmologist or a healthcare professional qualified in ophthalmology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
