22 April 2022 Rev.1 
EMA/CHMP/209022/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yselty 
linzagolix choline 
On 22 April 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yselty, 
intended for the treatment of symptoms of uterine fibroids.2 
The applicant for this medicinal product is ObsEva Ireland Ltd. 
Yselty will be available as 100 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Yselty is 
linzagolix choline, a selective, non-peptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist 
that binds to the GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland, modulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal 
axis. Yselty can be administered with or without concomitant hormonal add-back therapy depending on 
the clinical setting. The ATC code is yet to be assigned. 
As uterine fibroids are associated with heavy menstrual bleeding, the main benefit of Yselty is a reduced 
monthly blood loss. The most common side effects are hot flushes and headaches. 
The full indication is: 
Yselty is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult 
women of reproductive age. 
Yselty should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of uterine fibroids. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 The CHMP had initially adopted an opinion on 16 December 2021. Following a request from the European Commission, the 
Committee readopted its opinion on 22 April 2022. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
