European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/592658/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RIVASTIGMINE 1 A PHARMA 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): rivastigmine 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion∗∗, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rivastigmine  1  A  Pharma  1.5  mg,  3  mg,  4.5  mg,  6  mg  hard  capsules  and  2  mg  /  ml.  oral  solution 
intended for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe Alzheimer’s dementia and of mild 
to moderately severe dementia in patients with idiopathic Parkinson’s disease.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is 1A Pharma GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Rivastigmine  1  A  Pharma  is  rivastigmine  an  anticholinesterases  medicinal 
product (N06DA03).  
Rivastigmine 1 A Pharma is the same as Exelon, which is already authorised in the European Union. 
The company that holds Exelon has agreed that its scientific data on Exelon can be used to assess 
Rivastigmine 1 A Pharma. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Rivastigmine  is  indicated  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  of  mild  to 
moderately  severe  Alzheimer’s  dementia  and  mild  to  moderately  severe  dementia  in  patients  with 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit risk balance 
for Rivastigmine 1 A Pharma, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
* 
∗∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 7182 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
