22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/42494/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Abraxane 
paclitaxel 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Abraxane. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe 
Limited. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Abraxane in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-small cell 
lung cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative surgery and/or radiation 
therapy.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Abraxane will be as follows2: 
“Abraxane monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in adult patients 
who have failed first-line treatment for metastatic disease and for whom standard, anthracycline 
containing therapy is not indicated (see section 4.4). 
Abraxane in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. 
Abraxane in combination with carboplatin is indicated for the first-line treatment of non-
small cell lung cancer in adult patients who are not candidates for potentially curative 
surgery and/or radiation therapy.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
