19 May 2022
EMA/CHMP/266696/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Ertapenem SUN
ertapenem
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ertapenem 
SUN, intended for the treatment of ertapenem-susceptible bacterial infection when parenteral therapy is 
required and prevention of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery.
The applicant for this medicinal product is SUN Pharmaceutical Industries (Europe) B.V.
Ertapenem SUN will be available as 1 g powder to be reconstituted into a concentrate for solution for 
infusion. The active substance of Ertapenem SUN is ertapenem, an antibacterial for systemic use (ATC 
code: J01DH03). Ertapenem belongs to the group of antibiotics known as ‘carbapenems’. It attaches to 
bacterial penicillin binding proteins, inhibiting cell wall synthesis and so killing the bacteria. Lists of 
bacteria species likely to be susceptible or resistant to ertapenem are presented in section 5.1 of the 
summary of product characteristics. 
Ertapenem SUN is a generic of Invanz, which has been authorised in the EU since 18 April 2002. Since 
Ertapenem SUN is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus 
the reference product Invanz was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
can be found here.
The full indication is:
Treatment
Ertapenem SUN is indicated in paediatric patients (3 months to 17 years of age) and in adults 
for the treatment of the following infections when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be 
susceptible to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required (see sections 4.4 and 5.1):


Intra-abdominal infections
Community acquired pneumonia
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.

Acute gynaecological infections
 Diabetic foot infections of the skin and soft tissue
Prevention
Ertapenem SUN is indicated in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following 
elective colorectal surgery (see section 4.4 of the SmPC).
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
Ertapenem SUN 
EMA/CHMP/266696/2022
Page 2/2
