European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/92929/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ALIMTA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): pemetrexed   
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Alimta.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  ELI 
LILLY NEDERLAND B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology 
(see section 5.1).”. 
In addition, the CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see section 
5.1).”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Alimta will be as follows***: 
“Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma: 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer: 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous 
cell histology (see section 5.1). 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell 
histology (see section 5.1).” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
