25 April 2014 
EMA/252976/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Pradaxa 
dabigatran etexilate 
On 25 April 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Pradaxa. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Pradaxa will be as follows2: 
For 75mg strength: 
Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone elective 
total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
For 110 mg strength: 
Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone elective 
total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 
years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension. 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults. 
For 150 mg strength 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 
years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension. 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults. 
Pradaxa 
EMA/252976/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
