22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/736839/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Edarbi 
azilsartan medoxomil  
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Edarbi, 20 mg, 40 mg, 80 mg, tablet intended for the treatment of essential hypertension in adults. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Takeda Global Research and Development Centre (Europe) 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Edarbi is azilsartan medoxomil, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist (ATC 
code: C09CA09). By potently, selectively and competitively blocking the angiotensin II type 1 
receptors, Edarbi inhibits the Renin Angiotensin Aldosterone system resulting in a reduction in blood 
pressure. 
The benefit of Edarbi is its ability to effectively lower the blood pressure. The most common side 
effects are dizziness, diarrhoea and blood creatinine phosphokinase increased. Uncertainties are 
present regarding the dosing and safety in complicated patients, such as the very elderly (> 75 years), 
patients with an activated Renin Angiotensin Aldosterone system (e.g. patients with heart failure), and 
patients with renal and liver insufficiency. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Edarbi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of essential hypertension in adults”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Edarbi and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
