23 June 2016  
EMA/403687/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cinqaero 
reslizumab 
On 23 June 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cinqaero, intended as 
add-on treatment in adult patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. The applicant for this medicinal product 
is Teva Pharmaceuticals Limited. 
Cinqaero will be available as a 10 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Cinqaero is reslizumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody (IgG4, κ) against human interleukin-5 (IL 5) (ATC 
code: R03DX08). Reslizumab binds specifically to IL 5, a key cytokine responsible for the differentiation, 
maturation, recruitment and activation of human eosinophils. By binding to human IL 5, it blocks its 
biological function; consequently survival and activity of eosinophils are reduced. 
The benefits with Cinqaero are its ability to reduce the exacerbation rate and improve lung function and 
asthma-related quality of life in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma (with blood eosinophil count ≥ 400 
cells/µL) and with at least one previous asthma exacerbation in the preceding year. The most common side 
effects are increased blood creatine phosphokinase, myalgia and anaphylactic reactions. An imbalance in 
malignant neoplasms was observed during the clinical trials between placebo and treatment arms. 
The full indication is: “Cinqaero is indicated as add-on therapy in adult patients with severe eosinophilic 
asthma inadequately controlled despite high dose inhaled corticosteroids plus another medicinal product for 
maintenance treatment (see section 5.1)”. It is proposed that Cinqaero be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of the above-mentioned indication. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
