Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord  will  be  available  as  120  mg  and  240  mg  gastro-resistant  hard  capsules.  The 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Dimethyl 
fumarate Accord, intended for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The Applicant for this medicinal product 
is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
dimethyl fumarate 
15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/922592/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
It  primarily  acts  by 
the  activation  of 
fumarate  Accord 
fumarate,  an 
the  nuclear 
is  dimethyl 
triggering 
active  substance  of  Dimethyl 
(ATC code: L04AX07). 
(erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) transcriptional pathway. 
can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
the European Commission. 
sclerosis. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is a generic of Tecfidera, which has been authorised in the EU since 30 January 
2014.  Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord,  and  its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Tecfidera. A question and answer document on generic medicines 
Treatment should be  initiated under supervision of  a  physician experienced in  the  treatment of  multiple 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 
immunosuppressant 
factor 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
