23 January 2014 
EMA/CHMP/807324/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Adempas 
riociguat 
On 23 January 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Adempas, 
0.5 mg, 1 mg, 1.5 mg, 2.0 mg and 2.5 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of chronic 
thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary arterial hypertension. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Bayer Pharma AG. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Adempas is riociguat, an antihypertensive for pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(C02KX05). Riociguat is a stimulator of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), an enzyme in the 
cardiopulmonary system and the receptor for nitric oxide (NO). When NO binds to sGC, the enzyme 
catalyses synthesis of the signalling molecule cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Intra-cellular 
cGMP plays an important role in regulating processes that influence vascular tone, proliferation, 
fibrosis, and inflammation. Riociguat sensitises sGC to endogenous NO by stabilising the NO-sGC 
binding and directly stimulates sGC independently of NO. 
The benefits with Adempas are its ability to provide significant improvement in exercise capacity and 
pulmonary haemodynamics in CTEPH and PAH. The most common side effects are headaches, 
hypotension, gastrointestinal adverse events (AEs), dizziness and peripheral oedema. Some reported 
AEs are of concern considering the reported imbalance with the placebo group, e.g. haemoptysis, 
pulmonary haemorrhages and renal impairment.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Adempas will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) 
Adempas is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with WHO functional class II to III with 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
• 
• 
inoperable CTEPH,  
persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment, 
to improve exercise capacity (see section 5.1).  
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) 
Adempas, as monotherapy or in combination with endothelin receptor antagonists, is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with WHO functional class (FC) 
II to III to improve exercise capacity.  
Efficacy has been shown in a PAH population including aetiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH or PAH 
associated with connective tissue disease (see section 5.1).” 
Adempas should only be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of CTEPH or PAH. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Adempas and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Adempas 
EMA/CHMP/807324/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
