11 November 2021 
EMA/624008/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lumykras 
sotorasib 
On 11 November 2021,  the Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lumykras, intended for the treatment of patients with  KRAS G12C mutation  non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V.. 
Lumykras will be available as 120 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Lumykras is sotorasib, 
a KRAS G12C (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) inhibitor  (ATC code: L01XX73) which 
covalently and irreversibly binds to the  unique cysteine of KRAS G12C. Inactivation of KRAS G12C by 
sotorasib blocks tumour cell signalling and survival, inhibits cell growth and pr omotes apoptosis 
selectively in tumours harbouring KRAS G12C, an oncogenic driver of tumourigenesis.  
The benefits of Lumykras are its  objective response rate and response duration in patients  with  KRAS 
G12C-mutated NSCLC who had disease progression after r eceiving prior therapy. The most common side 
effects are diarrhoea, nausea, fatigue, increased aspartate aminotransferase and arthralgia . 
The full indication is: 
LUMYKRAS as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment  of adults with  advanced non -small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC)  with KRAS G12C mutation  and who have progressed after at least one 
prior line of systemic therapy. 
Lumykras should be initiated by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the ma rketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet me dical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. T he 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
