31 January 2019 
EMA/CHMP/904817/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tecentriq 
atezolizumab 
On 31 January 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tecentriq. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to one of the existing indications as follows2: 
“Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC): 
 
after prior platinum-containing chemotherapy, or 
  who are considered cisplatin ineligible, and whose tumours have a PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% (see 
section 5.1). 
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated for 
the first-line treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-squamous non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). In patients with EGFR mutant or ALK-positive NSCLC, Tecentriq, in 
combination with bevacizumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated only after failure 
of appropriate targeted therapies (see section 5.1). 
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after prior chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR 
activating mutationsmutant or ALK-positive tumour mutationsNSCLC should also have received 
targeted therapyies before receiving Tecentriq (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
