19 November 2015  
EMA/CHMP/729989/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pemetrexed Accord 
pemetrexed 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pemetrexed 
Accord, intended for the treatment of unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma and locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare Ltd. 
Pemetrexed Accord will be available as a powder (100 mg, 500 mg and 1,000 mg) for concentrate for 
solution for infusion. The active substance of Pemetrexed Accord, pemetrexed, is a multi-targeted 
anti-cancer anti-folate agent (ATC code: L01BA04) that exerts its action by disrupting crucial folate 
dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Pemetrexed Accord is a generic of Alimta, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 September 2004. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pemetrexed Accord. Since Pemetrexed Accord is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product 
Alimta was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
"Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve 
patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pemetrexed Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology 
(see section 5.1). 
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose 
disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Pemetrexed Accord is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1)." 
It is proposed that Pemetrexed Accord be subject to prescription and administered under the supervision of 
physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Pemetrexed Accord  
EMA/CHMP/729989/2015 
Page 2/2 
  
  
