25 June 2020  
EMA/322223/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Remsima 
infliximab 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Remsima. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
The CHMP agreed to extend the indication of the subcutaneous formulation of Remsima to include treatment 
of adult patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and 
psoriasis, in line with the adult indications of the IV formulation. 
For information, the full indications for subcutaneous formulations of Remsima will be as follows:2 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Remsima, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in:  
• 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate.  
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs.  
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured 
by X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1).  
Crohn’s disease 
Remsima is indicated for: 
• 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who 
have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have 
medical contraindications for such therapies. 
• 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional 
treatment (including antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
Ulcerative colitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in 
adult patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are 
intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult 
patients who have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult 
patients when the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Remsima should be administered 
• 
• 
in combination with methotrexate 
or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom 
methotrexate is contraindicated. 
Infliximab has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic 
arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured 
by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 
5.1). 
Psoriasis 
Remsima is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult 
patients who failed to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to 
other systemic therapy including ciclosporin, methotrexate or psoralen ultra-violet A 
(PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Remsima  
EMA/322223/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
