15 December 2016 
EMA/CHMP/734936/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Votubia 
everolimus 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Votubia. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the 2mg, 3mg, and 5mg dispersible tablets as follows: 
"Votubia is indicated as adjunctive treatment of patients aged 2 years and older whose refractory 
partial-onset seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, are associated with tuberous 
sclerosis complex (TSC)". 
For information, the full indications for Votubia dispersible tablets will be as follows2: 
"Refractory seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated as adjunctive treatment of patients aged 2 years and older whose 
refractory partial-onset seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, are 
associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). 
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis 
complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of patients with subependymal giant cell astrocytoma 
(SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who require therapeutic intervention 
but are not amenable to surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in SEGA volume. Further clinical benefit, such as 
improvement in disease-related symptoms, has not been demonstrated." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
