24 October 2013 
EMA/CHMP/630715/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Brintellix 
vortioxetine 
On  24  October  2013,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Brintellix, 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, film-coated tablet and 20mg/ml oral drops (solution) intended 
for the treatment of major depressive episodes in adults.  The applicant for this medicinal product 
is H. Lundbeck A/S. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Brintellix is vortioxetine,  an  antidepressant  (ATC Code  N06AX26),  and its 
mechanism  of  action  is  thought  to  be  related  to  its  direct  modulation  of  serotonergic  receptor 
activity and inhibition of the serotonin (5-HT) transporter. 
The  benefits  with  Brintellix  are  based  on  its  ability  to  reduce  a  broad  range  of  depressive 
symptoms.  
The most common side effect is nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Brintellix will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is “treatment of major depressive episodes in adults”. It is proposed that 
Brintellix is subject to medical prescription.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  European  public  assessment  report  (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit-to-risk  balance  for  Brintellix  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
