23 February 2023 
EMA/CHMP/608399/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Libtayo 
cemiplimab 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Libtayo. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Regeneron Ireland Designated 
Activity Company (DAC). 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
LIBTAYO in combination with platinum
based chemotherapy is indicated for the first
line 
treatment of adult patients with NSCLC expressing PD-L1 (in ≥ 1% of tumour cells), with no 
‐
EGFR, ALK or ROS1 aberrations, who have: 
‐
locally advanced NSCLC who are not candidates for definitive chemoradiation, or 
• 
•  metastatic NSCLC. 
For information, the full indications for Libtayo will be as follows2: 
Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic or 
locally advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (mCSCC or laCSCC) who are not 
candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation. 
Basal Cell Carcinoma 
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic basal cell carcinoma (laBCC or mBCC) who have progressed on or are intolerant to 
a hedgehog pathway inhibitor (HHI). 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) expressing PD-L1 (in ≥ 50% tumour cells), with no EGFR, ALK or ROS1 
aberrations, who have: 
• 
locally advanced NSCLC who are not candidates for definitive chemoradiation, or  
•  metastatic NSCLC. 
LIBTAYO in combination with platinum
based chemotherapy is indicated for the first
line treatment of adult patients with NSCLC expressing PD-L1 (in ≥ 1% of tumour 
‐
‐
cells), with no EGFR, ALK or ROS1 aberrations, who have: 
• 
locally advanced NSCLC who are not candidates for definitive chemoradiation, or 
•  metastatic NSCLC. 
Cervical Cancer 
LIBTAYO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with recurrent or 
metastatic cervical cancer and disease progression on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Libtayo  
EMA/CHMP/608399/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
