21 March 2013 
EMA/CHMP/160010/2013 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Stayveer 
Bosentan Monohydrate 
On 21 March 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Stayveer 
62.5 and 125 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension 
and digital ulcer disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Marklas Nederland BV. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  Stayveer  is  Bosentan,  an  anti-hypertensive  drug  (C02KX01)  and  endothelin 
receptor  (ETa  and  ETb)  antagonist,  which  decreases  pulmonary  vascular  resistance.  It  works  by 
causing expansion of the blood vessels in the lungs, thereby reducing blood pressure and reducing the 
symptoms of PAH. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Stayveer will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) to improve exercise capacity and 
symptoms in patients with WHO functional class III. Efficacy has been shown in primary (idiopathic and 
familial) PAH, PAH secondary to scleroderma without significant interstitial pulmonary disease and PAH 
associated with congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunts and Eisenmenger’s physiology. Some 
improvements have also been shown in patients with PAH WHO functional class II. Stayveer is also 
indicated to reduce the number of new digital ulcers in patients with systemic sclerosis and on-going 
digital ulcer disease.” It is proposed that Stayveer is prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Stayveer and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Stayveer  
EMA/CHMP/160010/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
