25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/435143/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1  
Insuman Implantable 
Insulin human 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the addition of a new formulation to the marketing authorisation of the 
medicinal product Insuman. The new formulation, Insuman Implantable, is an insulin solution for 
infusion (400 IU/ml) that is delivered into the intra-peritoneal cavity via an implantable pump device 
(MiniMed). It has been developed as a replacement for another insulin product called Insuplant, which 
is no longer manufactured. 
The marketing authorisation holder for Insuman is Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH. The CHMP 
recommendation will now be forwarded to the European Commission, which will issue a legally binding 
decision.  
Insuman Implantable is intended for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus that cannot be 
controlled with subcutaneous insulin (including pump) therapy, presenting with frequent, otherwise 
unexplained severe hyper- and/or hypo-glycaemia.  
Prescription of Insuman Implantable will be restricted to centres certified by Medtronic (the 
manufacturer of the MiniMed pump) as having had their personnel adequate trained in the use of the 
pump with Insuman Implantable. Use of Insuman Implantable should be supervised by a physician 
experienced in diabetes and in the use of intraperitoneal insulin. 
The benefits with Insuman Implantable are its ability to improve glycaemic control in otherwise difficult 
to treat adult patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. The most common side effects related to the 
insulin are hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia, hypoglycaemic seizure, hypoglycaemic unconsciousness, 
oedema and hypoglycaemic coma. The most common side effects and product technical complaints 
observed with the delivery system are implant site infection, abdominal pain, umbilical hernia, skin 
erosion at pump implantation site, device occlusion, catheter site pain, medical device change due to 
device malfunction and device blockage.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Insuman Implantable will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Insuman Implantable 
EMA/CHMP/435143/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
