21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/713909/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Deltyba 
delamanid 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Deltyba, 50 mg, film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of multi-drug resistant 
tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Deltyba was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 1 February 2008. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Otsuka Novel Products GmbH. 
The active substance of Deltyba is delamanid, an antimycobacterial (J04AK06). It exerts its activity by 
inhibiting the synthesis of the mycobacterial cell wall components, methoxy-mycolic and keto-mycolic 
acid. 
The benefits with Deltyba are based on short term clinical trial data showing that when delamanid was 
used in combination with an optimal background regimen (OBR) of other anti-tuberculosis medicines in 
the treatment of pulmonary MDR-TB, it provided a superior outcome over placebo with OBR in terms of 
sputum culture conversion.  Although not able to precisely predict final disease outcome, these data 
were considered as important demonstration of antitubercular activity within the context of a 
conditional marketing authorisation recommendation. More definitive data will become available within 
a short timeframe. The safety database is limited, but the most important side effects noted to date 
are ECG changes (QTc interval prolongation) and abnormal hepatic function.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Deltyba will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Deltyba is indicated for use as part of an appropriate combination regimen 
for pulmonary multi-drug resistant tubercolosis (MDR-TB) in adult patients when an effective treatment 
regimen cannot otherwise be composed for reasons of resistance or tolerability (see sections 4.2, 4.4 
and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Deltyba and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Deltyba 
EMA/CHMP/713909/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
                                                
