24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/425704/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Baraclude 
entecavir 
On 24 July 2014 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Baraclude. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Pharma EEIG. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Baraclude is also indicated for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in nucleoside naive paediatric 
patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with compensated liver disease who have evidence of active viral 
replication and persistently elevated serum ALT levels, or histological evidence of moderate to severe 
inflammation and/or fibrosis. With respect to the decision to initiate treatment in paediatric patients, 
see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1.". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Baraclude will be as follows2: 
" Baraclude is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (see section 5.1) 
in adults with:  
• 
• 
compensated liver disease and evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis.  
decompensated liver disease (see section 4.4) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
For both compensated and decompensated liver disease, this indication is based on clinical trial data in 
nucleoside naive patients with HBeAg positive and HBeAg negative HBV infection. With respect to 
patients with lamivudine-refractory hepatitis B, see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1. 
Baraclude is also indicated for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in nucleoside naive 
paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with compensated liver disease who have 
evidence of active viral replication and persistently elevated serum ALT levels, or 
histological evidence of moderate to severe inflammation and/or fibrosis. With respect to 
the decision to initiate treatment in paediatric patients, see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1.". 
Baraclude 
EMA/CHMP/425704/2014 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
