23 March 2017  
EMA/CHMP/193129/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Refixia 
nonacog beta pegol 
On 23 March 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Refixia, intended for the 
treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 12 years and above with haemophilia B (congenital factor 
IX deficiency). Refixia was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 15 May 2009. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
Refixia will be available as a powder and solvent for solution for injection (500 IU, 1000 IU and 2000 IU). The 
active substance of Refixia is nonacog beta pegol, a recombinant coagulation factor IX (ATC code: B02BD) 
which works in the body in the same way as human factor IX. It replaces the missing factor IX, thereby 
helping the blood to clot and giving temporary control of bleeding. 
The benefits of Refixia are its ability to prevent and treat bleeding in patients with haemophilia B. The most 
common side effects are nausea, pruritus, fatigue and injection site reactions. Some patients taking 
factor IX medicines may develop inhibitors (antibodies) against factor IX, causing the medicine to stop 
working and resulting in a loss of bleeding control. Factor IX medicines can also potentially cause problems 
due to the formation of blood clots in the blood vessels. In addition, it is known that hypersensitivity 
reactions can occur with factor IX products. 
The full indication is: "treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients 12 years and above with 
haemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency)". It is proposed that Refixia be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of haemophilia B. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
