22 May 2014 
EMA/CHMP/276487/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Simbrinza 
Brinzolamide/brimonidine tartrate 
On 22 May 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Simbrinza, 
10 mg/ml / 2 mg/ml, eye drops, suspension intended for the treatment of elevated intraocular 
pressure (IOP) in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom 
monotherapy provides insufficient IOP reduction. The applicant for this medicinal product is Alcon 
Laboratories (UK) Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Simbrinza contains two active substances: brinzolamide and brimonidine.  
Brinzolamide belongs to the class of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and reduces the ocular pressure by 
a direct antagonist activity on carbonic anhydrase within the ciliary epithelium, thereby decreasing the 
production of aqueous humor.   
Brimonidine belongs to the class of alpha 2-adrenergic agonists and targets the alpha 2-receptor in the 
ciliary epithelium, ultimately resulting in suppression of aqueous humour formation.  
The benefits with Simbrinza are its ability to lower the ocular pressure by means of the two different 
mechanisms of action described above. The most common side effects are ocular (topical) reactions. 
The most common were ocular hyperaemia, ocular discomfort, blurred vision, and ocular allergy.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Simbrinza will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with 
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient IOP 
reduction".  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Simbrinza and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Simbrinza 
EMA/CHMP/276487/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
