16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/689575/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Apexxnar 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (20-valent, adsorbed) 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Apexxnar, 
intended for prophylaxis against pneumococcal pneumonia and associated invasive disease. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
Apexxnar will be available as a suspension for injection. The active substance of Apexxnar (ATC code: 
J07AL02) is pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (20-valent, adsorbed), which elicits an 
immune response to all 20 serotypes contained in the product. 
The benefit of Apexxnar is the presumed protection against pneumococcal disease (based on 
immunobridging data). The most common side effects are injection site pain, fatigue and headache.  
The full indication is: 
Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease and pneumonia caused by 
Streptococcus pneumoniae in individuals 18 years of age and older. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
Apexxnar should be used in accordance with official recommendations.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
