20 July 2023 
EMA/323951/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Enrylaze 
crisantaspase 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Enrylaze, 
intended for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Enrylaze will be available as a 10 mg/ 0.5 ml solution for injection/infusion. The active substance of 
Enrylaze is crisantaspase, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX02). Crisantaspase catalyses the 
conversion of L-asparagine into L-aspartic acid and ammonia. Depletion of asparagine in blood serum 
results in apoptosis of cells highly dependent on asparagine, especially leukaemic blasts. 
The benefit of Enrylaze is the achievement and maintenance of nadir (minimal) serum asparaginase 
activity, which has been demonstrated to correlate with serum asparagine depletion. The most common 
side effects are anaemia, vomiting, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, nausea, febrile neutropenia, fatigue 
and pyrexia. 
The full indication is: 
Enrylaze is indicated as a component of a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the 
treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) in adult 
and paediatric patients (1 month and older) who developed hypersensitivity or silent inactivation 
to E. coli-derived asparaginase. 
Enrylaze should be prescribed and administered by physicians and healthcare personnel experienced in 
the use of antineoplastic products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
