19 July 2012 
EMA/CHMP/453868/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xalkori 
crizotinib 
On 19 July 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xalkori, 200 mg, 250 mg, hard capsule intended for the treatment of adults with previously treated 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP 
opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 
days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xalkori is crizotinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE16) the antineoplastic 
activity of which is linked to the selective inhibition of the ALK receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) and its 
oncogenic variants (i.e. ALK fusion events and selected ALK mutations). Xalkori is also an inhibitor of 
the Hepatocyte Growth Factor Receptor (HGFR, c-Met) RTK. 
The benefits with Xalkori are its important activity on ALK-positive NSCLC with an objective response 
rate of 60% (95% CI, 51% - 69%) and a median progression free survival (PFS) of 9.2 months (95% 
CI, 7.3 months – 12.7 months). The most common side effects are vision disorder, nausea, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, oedema, constipation, and fatigue. The potentially serious adverse reactions are 
hepatotoxicity, pneumonitis and QT interval prolongation 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xalkori will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: "XALKORI is indicated for the treatment of adults with previously treated 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)". It is 
proposed that Xalkori be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer 
medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xalkori and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Xalkori 
EMA/CHMP/453868/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
