European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 November 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/752757/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
SILODYX 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): silodosin 
On  19  November  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Silodyx  4  mg,  8  mg,  hard  capsules,  intended  for  treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  benign 
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). The applicant for this medicinal product is Recordati Irela
nd Ltd. 
The active substance of Silodyx is silodosin, a urological medicinal product (ATC code G04CA04). 
Silodosin is a selective α1A-adrenoreceptor antagonist. Blockade of α1A-adrenoreceptors causes smooth 
muscle in the prostate, bladder base, bladder neck, prostatic capsule and prostatic urethra to relax, thus 
decreasing bladder outlet resistance.  
The benefits with Silodyx are its ability to improve lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) associated 
with  benign  prostatic  hyperplasia  (BPH)  including  decrease  in  both  storage  (irritative)  and  voiding 
(obstructive)  symptoms  of  BPH.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  transient  ejaculatory  disorders 
such as retrograde ejaculation and anejaculation (ejaculatory volume reduced or absent). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Silodyx, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  benign  prostatic  hyperplasia 
(BPH)”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Silodyx and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
