European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/391587/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ACLASTA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): zoledronic acid 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion** to recommend  the variation to the terms  of the  marketing authorisation for the  medicinal 
product  Aclasta.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  post-menopausal  women  and  men  at  increased  risk  of  fracture, 
including those with a recent low-trauma hip fracture”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Aclasta will be as follows***: 
Treatment of osteoporosis 
• 
• 
at increased risk of fracture, including those with a recent low-trauma hip fracture. 
in post-menopausal women 
in men 
Treatment of Paget’s disease of the bone. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
