15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/697268/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zaltrap 
aflibercept 
On 15 Novemebr 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Zaltrap, 25 mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion, intended, in combination with irinotecan/ 
5-fluorouracil/ folinic acid (FOLFIRI) chemotherapy, for the treatment of adults with metastatic 
colorectal cancer (MCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed after an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-Aventis Groupe. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zaltrap is aflibercept, an antineoplastic agent (ATC Code not yet assigned) 
acting as a decoy receptor of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) thereby blocking the VEGF 
biological pathway. This pathway is important for the blood supply of tumours, although other 
biological functions of the pathway have been described. 
The benefits with Zaltrap are its ability to improve the survival of patients and to delay the progression 
of disease compared to placebo. The most common side effects are leucopenia, diarrhoea, 
neutropenia, proteinuria, increased aspartate aminotransferase (AST), stomatitis, fatigue, 
thrombocytopenia, increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT), hypertension, weight loss, decreased 
appetite, epistaxis, abdominal pain, dysphonia, increased serum creatinine, and headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zaltrap will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: "Zaltrap in combination with irinotecan/5 fluorouracil/folinic acid (FOLFIRI) 
chemotherapy is indicated in adults with metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC) that is resistant to or has 
progressed after an oxaliplatin containing regimen". It is proposed that Zaltrap be prescribed by 
physicians experienced in the use of antineoplastic medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zaltrap and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Zaltrap 
EMA/CHMP/697268/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
