13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/791184/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ebvallo 
tabelecleucel 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for 
the medicinal product Ebvallo3, intended for the treatment of Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disease (EBV+ PTLD). As Ebvallo is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP 
positive opinion is based on an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Atara Biotherapeutics Ireland Limited. 
Ebvallo will be available as a dispersion for injection containing 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 viable T cells/mL. 
The active substance of Ebvallo is tabelecleucel, an allogeneic, EBV-specific T-cell immunotherapy which 
targets and eliminates EBV-infected cells in a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted manner. 
The benefit of Ebvallo is its ability to bring about a response in patients with relapsed and refractory EBV+ 
PTLD. The most common side effects are pyrexia, diarrhoea, fatigue, nausea, anaemia, decreased 
appetite and hyponatraemia. 
The full indication is: 
Ebvallo is indicated as monotherapy for treatment of adult and paediatric patients 2 years of age 
and older with relapsed or refractory Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disease (EBV+ PTLD) who have received at least one prior therapy. For solid 
organ transplant patients, prior therapy includes chemotherapy unless chemotherapy is 
inappropriate. 
Ebvallo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and 
safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area 
concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ebvallo  
EMA/CHMP/791184/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
