20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/453766/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dupixent 
dupilumab 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dupixent, 
intended for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi-Aventis 
groupe. 
Dupixent will be available as a 300 mg solution for injection. The active substance of Dupixent is 
dupilumab, a recombinant human IgG4 monoclonal antibody (ATC code: to be assigned) that works by 
inhibiting interleukin-4 and interleukin-13 signaling. 
The benefits with Dupixent are its ability to improve the skin condition as measured by improvements in 
the IGA and EASI-75 scales and to reduce itching in patients with atopic dermatitis. The most common 
side effects are injection site reactions, conjunctivitis, blepharitis, and oral herpes. 
The full indication is: "Dupixent is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in 
adult patients who are candidates for systemic therapy". It is proposed that Dupixent be prescribed by 
physicians experienced in the treatment of atopic dermatitis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
