30 March 2023 
EMA/CHMP/113220/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Epysqli 
eculizumab 
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Epysqli, 
intended for the treatment of adults and children with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Epysqli will be available as a 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Epysqli 
is eculizumab, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA25). Eculizumab is a recombinant 
humanised monoclonal IgG2/4k antibody that binds to the human C5 complement protein and thereby 
inhibits the activation of terminal complement.  
Epysqli is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Soliris (eculizumab), 
which was authorised in the EU on 20 June 2007. Data show that Epysqli has comparable quality, safety 
and efficacy to Soliris (eculizumab). More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Epysqli is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (PNH). Evidence of clinical benefit is demonstrated in patients with haemolysis 
with clinical symptom(s) indicative of high disease activity, regardless of transfusion history (see 
section 5.1).  
Epysqli must be administered by a healthcare professional and under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the management of patients with haematological disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
