26 April 2018 
EMA/CHMP/228562/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Biktarvy 
bictegravir / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 
On 26 April 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Biktarvy, 
intended for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences 
International Limited. 
Biktarvy will be available as a fixed dose combination of three active substances, bictegravir, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide, and will be available as 50 mg, 200 mg, 25 mg film-coated 
tablets (ATC code: J05AR20). Bictegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and 
blocking the strand transfer step of retroviral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) integration that is essential for 
the HIV replication cycle. Emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide are substrates and competitive 
inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA 
chain, resulting in chain termination. 
The benefits with Biktarvy are its ability to achieve a potent antiretroviral response in a once daily, single 
pill regimen. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, headache, nausea, fatigue, dizziness and 
abnormal dreams. 
The full indication is: " Biktarvy is indicated for the treatment of adults infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) without present or past evidence of viral resistance to the integrase 
inhibitor class, emtricitabine or tenofovir (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Biktarvy be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
