24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/101990/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Yervoy 
ipilimumab 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Yervoy. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.   
For information, the full indications for Yervoy will be as follows:2 
Melanoma 
Yervoy as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults, and adolescents 12 years of age and older (see section 4.4). 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose tumours have 
no sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer 
(CRC) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer after prior 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult 
patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous 
cell carcinoma with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Yervoy  
EMA/CHMP/101990/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
