19 May 2022 
EMA/CHMP/262700/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xeljanz 
tofacitinib 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for Xeljanz prolonged-release 
tablets.2 The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Europe MA EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis. The full indications for 
Xeljanz prolonged-release tablets will therefore be as follows:3 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Tofacitinib in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or 
who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (see 
section 5.1). Tofacitinib can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or when 
treatment with MTX is inappropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Tofacitinib in combination with MTX is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis 
(PsA) in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a 
prior disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy (see section 5.1). 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS) who have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This recommendation is without prejudice to the final conclusions of the ongoing referral procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data. 
3 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Xeljanz  
EMA/CHMP/262700/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
