24 September 2015  
EMA/CHMP/572488/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ciambra 
pemetrexed 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ciambra, 
intended for the treatment of unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma and locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. 
Ciambra will be available as 100 mg and 500 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
active substance of Ciambra, pemetrexed, is a multi-targeted anti-cancer antifolate agent (ATC code: 
L01BA04) that exerts its action by disrupting crucial folate-dependent metabolic processes essential for 
cell replication. 
Ciambra is a generic of Alimta, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 September 2004. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ciambra. Since Ciambra is administered intravenously and 
is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product Alimta was not required. A 
question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see 
section 5.1). 
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology (see section 
5.1).” 
It is proposed that Ciambra be subject to prescription and administered under the supervision of 
physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer chemotherapy.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ciambra  
EMA/CHMP/572488/2015 
Page 2/2 
  
  
