23 June 2022 
EMA/593501/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Ranivisio 
ranibizumab 
On 23 June 2022,  the Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Ranivisio, 
intended for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration, visual impairment due 
to macular oedema or choroidal neovascularisation, and proliferative diabetic retinopathy. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Midas Pharma GmbH. 
Ranivisio will  be available as a 10  mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Ranivisio is 
ranibizumab, a monoclonal antibody fragment (ATC code: S01LA04)  which modulates angiogenesis by 
inhibiting  vascular endothelial growth factor A. 
Ranivisio is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Lucentis 
(ranibizumab), which was authorised in the EU on 22/01/2007.  Data show that  Ranivisio has comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy to Lucentis  (ranibizumab). More information on biosimilar medicines can be 
found here. 
The full indication is: 
Ranivisio is indicated in adults  for: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME) 
The treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
The treatment of visual impairment due to macular oedema secondary to retinal vein 
occlusion (branch RVO or central RVO) 
• 
The treatment of visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularisation (CNV). 
Ranivisio must  be administered by a qualified ophthalmologist experienced in intravitreal injections. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
Ranivisio  
EMA/593501/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
