23 October 2014 
EMA/647461/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xtandi 
enzalutamide 
On 23 October 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Xtandi. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Astellas Pharma 
Europe B.V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Xtandi is indicated for the treatment of adult men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated (see section 5.1)". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Xtandi will be as follows2: 
Xtandi is indicated for: 
• 
the treatment of adult men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who 
are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in 
whom chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated (see section 5.1) 
• 
the treatment of adult men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer whose disease 
has progressed on or after docetaxel therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 8427  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
E-mail press@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
