21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/719108/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Pradaxa 
dabigatran etexilate  
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Pradaxa. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Boehringer 
Ingelheim International GmbH. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
(NVAF), with one or more of the following risk factors, such as 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Previous prior stroke or, transient ischemic attack (TIA); or systemic embolism (SEE);  
Left ventricular ejection fraction < 40 % 
Symptomatic heart failure ( ≥ New York Heart Association (NYHA ) Class ≥ II≥ 2); 
Age ≥ 75 years 
Age ≥ 65 years associated with one of the following: diabetes mellitus; coronary artery 
disease;, or hypertension.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Pradaxa will be as follows2: 
75 mg strength 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
“Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone elective 
total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery.” 
110 mg strength 
“Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone elective 
total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic 
attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus;  
hypertension.” 
150 mg strength 
“Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic 
attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus;  
hypertension.” 
Pradaxa 
EMA/CHMP/719108/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
