22 April 2022 
EMA/CHMP/158054/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lunsumio 
mosunetuzumab 
On 22 April 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lunsumio3, intended for the treatment of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma. 
Lunsumio was reviewed under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Lunsumio will be available as 1 mg and 30 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Lunsumio is mosunetuzumab, a bispecific monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC) which 
simultaneously binds to CD20 on B cells and CD3 on T cells, thereby inducing the death of malignant B 
cells. 
The benefits of Lunsumio are the high proportion of patients with a complete response and the durability 
of the treatment response. The most common side effects are cytokine release syndrome, neutropenia, 
pyrexia, hypophosphataemia and headache. 
The full indication is: 
Lunsumio as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) who have received at least two prior systemic therapies. 
Lunsumio should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
