22 April 2022 
EMA/CHMP/164312/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tabrecta 
capmatinib 
On 22 April 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tabrecta, 
intended for treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring 
alterations leading to mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor gene exon 14 (METex14) skipping. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Tabrecta will be available as 150 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tabrecta is 
capmatinib, a MET inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX17) which blocks MET phosphorylation and MET-dependent 
downstream signalling. 
The benefits of Tabrecta are its objective response rate and response duration in patients with NSCLC 
harbouring alterations leading to METex14 skipping. The most common side effects are peripheral 
oedema, nausea, fatigue, vomiting, dyspnoea and decreased appetite. 
The full indication is: 
Tabrecta as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced non-
small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harbouring alterations leading to mesenchymal epithelial 
transition factor gene exon 14 (METex14) skipping, who require systemic therapy following prior 
treatment with immunotherapy and/or platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Tabrecta should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
