22 February 2018 
EMA/CHMP/109090/2018 Rev. 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)  
Riarify2 
beclometasone dipropionate anhydrous / formoterol fumarate dihydrate / 
glycopyrronium 
On 22 February 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Riarify, 
intended for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Riarify is a triple combination of an inhaled glucocorticoid (beclometasone dipropionate), a long-acting 
beta-2 receptor agonist (formoterol fumarate dihydrate) and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist 
(glycopyrronium bromide). It will be available as a pressurised metered dose inhaler delivering a solution 
with a nominal dose per actuation of 87 micrograms / 5 micrograms / 9 micrograms of the active 
substances respectively. Beclometasone reduces inflammation in the lungs, whereas formoterol and 
glycopyrronium relax bronchial smooth muscle helping to dilate the airways and make breathing easier 
(ATC code: R03AL09).  
The benefits with Riarify are its ability to relieve and prevent symptoms such as shortness of breath, 
wheezing and cough and to reduce exacerbations of COPD symptoms. The most common side effects of 
Riarify are oral candidiasis, muscle spasm and dry mouth. 
The application for Riarify was an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product 
for Riarify is Trimbow. 
The full indication is: “Maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who are not adequately treated by a combination of an inhaled 
corticosteroid and a long-acting beta2-agonist (for effects on symptoms control and prevention of 
exacerbations see section 5.1).” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Previously known as CHF 5993 Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Riarify1F  
EMA/CHMP/109090/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
