20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/513131/2012  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ibandronic acid Accord 
ibandronic acid 
On 20 September 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg and 6 mg Concentrate for Solution for Infusion intended for the 
prevention of skeletal events (pathological fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or 
surgery) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, and treatment of tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia with or without metastases. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord 
Healthcare Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ibandronic acid Accord is ibandronic acid a third generation bisphosphonate 
(ATC Code: M05BA06) which inhibits bone resorption. 
Ibandronic Acid Accord is a generic of Bondronat which has been authorised in the EU since  
22 June 1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ibandronic acid Accord. 
Ibandronic acid Accord is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, therefore, a 
bioequivalence study versus the reference product Bondronat was not required. A question-and-answer 
document on generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ibandronic acid Accord will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: prevention of skeletal events (pathological fractures, bone complications 
requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, and treatment 
of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia with or without metastases. It is proposed that Ibandronic acid 
Accord is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ibandronic acid Accord and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Ibandronic acid Accord  
EMA/CHMP/513131/2012  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
