European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/400280/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
AVASTIN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): bevacizumab 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product Avastin. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration 
Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Avastin in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of patients 
with metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Avastin will be as follows***: 
Avastin (bevacizumab) in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for 
treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Avastin in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of patients 
with metastatic breast cancer. For further information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 
5.1. 
Avastin, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of patients 
with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than 
predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Avastin in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of patients with 
advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
