21 July 2016  
EMA/CHMP/438736/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
tenofovir disoproxil 
On 21 July 2016 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva, intended for the treatment of HIV-1 infection and the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults and 
adolescents. The applicant for this medicinal product is Zentiva k.s. 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva will be available as 245-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is the antiviral tenofovir disoproxil, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(ATC code: J05AF07). Tenofovir is a substrate and competitive inhibitor of HIV reverse transcriptase. After 
phosphorylation, it is incorporated into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination.  
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a generic of Viread which has been authorised in the EU since 5 February 
2002. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, and its 
bioequivalence to the reference product Viread. A question and answer document on generic medicines can 
be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"HIV-1 infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products 
for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults. 
In adults, the demonstration of the benefit of tenofovir disoproxil in HIV-1 infection is based on 
results of one study in treatment-naïve patients, including patients with a high viral load 
(> 100,000 copies/ml) and studies in which tenofovir disoproxil was added to stable background 
therapy (mainly tritherapy) in antiretroviral pre-treated patients experiencing early virological 
failure (< 10,000 copies/ml, with the majority of patients having < 5,000 copies/ml). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is also indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adolescents, with 
NRTI resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents, aged 12 to < 18 years. 
The choice of Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva to treat antiretroviral-experienced patients with HIV-1 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
infection should be based on individual viral resistance testing and/or treatment history of patients. 
Hepatitis B infection 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with: 
- 
compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis (see section 5.1). 
-  evidence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
-  decompensated liver disease (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adolescents 12 to 
< 18 years of age with: 
- 
compensated liver disease and evidence of immune active disease, i.e. active viral replication, 
persistently elevated serum ALT levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1)." 
It is proposed that Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management 
of HIV infection and/or treatment of chronic hepatitis B.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva  
EMA/CHMP/438736/2016 
Page 2/2 
  
  
