24 September 2015  
EMA/627858/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kyprolis 
carfilzomib 
On 24 September the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kyprolis, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Kyprolis was designated as an orphan medicinal product 
on 3 June 2008. The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
Kyprolis will be available as a 60 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of Kyprolis is 
carfilzomib, an irreversible proteasome inhibitor (ATC code: L01XX45). 
The benefits with Kyprolis are its ability to delay the progression of disease when used in combination 
with lenalidomide and dexamethasone. The most common side effects are anaemia, fatigue, diarrhoea, 
thrombocytopenia, nausea, pyrexia, dyspnoea, respiratory tract infection, cough and peripheral oedema. 
The full indication is: "Kyprolis in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy". It is 
proposed that Kyprolis treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anti-
cancer therapy.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
