European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 13 December 2007 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/562878/2007, corr.+ 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MYFENAX 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): mycophenolate mofetil 
On  13  December  2007  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Myfenax, 250 mg hard capsules and 500 mg film coated tablets intended for the prophylaxis of acute 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogeneic renal, cardiac or hepatic transplants in combination 
with ciclosporin and corticosteroids. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Myfenax  is  mycophenolate  mofetil,  a  selective  immunosuppressive  agent 
medicinal product (L04AA06).  
Myfenax  is  a  generic  of  CellCept  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since  14  February  1996. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Myfenax, and its bioequivalence with CellCept. 
A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “in combination with ciclosporin and corticosteroids for the prophylaxis of 
acute  transplant  rejection  in  patients  receiving  allogeneic  renal,  cardiac  or  hepatic  transplants”.  It  is 
proposed  that  treatment  with  Myfenax  should  be  initiated  and  maintained  by  appropriately qualified 
transplant specialists.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Myfenax  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
+  
* 
** 
Correction: Strength of the product has been corrected from 5000 mg to 500 mg 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2006 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
