17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/355381/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Supemtek 
Quadrivalent Influenza Vaccine (recombinant, prepared in cell culture) 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Supemtek, a 
vaccine intended for prophylaxis against influenza. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi 
Pasteur. 
Supemtek will be available as solution for injection in pre-filled syringes. The active substance is 
recombinant influenza virus haemagglutinin proteins, from 4 different influenza virus strains (two A 
subtypes (H1N1, H3N2) and two B types) (ATC code: J07BB02). Supemtek provides active immunisation 
against influenza virus by inducing neutralising antibodies against viral haemagglutinin. 
The benefits of Supemtek are its ability to induce at least a comparable immune response to an 
authorised egg-based quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine. The most common side effects are 
injection-site reactions (tenderness and pain), headache and fatigue. In adults 18 to 49 years of age also 
myalgia and arthralgia. 
The full indication is: 
Supemtek is indicated for active immunization for the prevention of influenza disease in adults. 
Supemtek should be used in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
