European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/372528/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VIZARSIN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sildenafil  
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vizarsin 25, 50 
and 100 mg intended for: Treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve 
or maintain a penile erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Krka Novomesto. 
The  active  substance  of  Vizarsin  is  sildenafil  (as  citrate),  a  drug  used  in  erectile  dysfunction 
(G04BE03). The physiological mechanism responsible for erection of the penis involves the release of 
nitric oxide (NO) in the corpus cavernosum during sexual stimulation.  Nitric oxide then activates the 
guanylate  cyclase,  which  results  in  increased  levels  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP), 
producing smooth muscle relaxation in the corpus cavernosum and allowing inflow of blood.  
Sildenafil  is  a  potent  and  selective  inhibitor  of  phosphodiesterase  type  5  (PDE5)  in  the  corpus 
cavernosum, where PDE5 is responsible for degradation of cGMP. Sildenafil has a peripheral site of 
action on erections. Sildenafil has no direct relaxant effect on isolated human corpus cavernosum but 
potently enhances the relaxant effect of NO on this tissue.  
Vizarsin is a generic of Viagra, which has been authorised in the EU since 14 September 1998. Studies 
have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Vizarsin,  and  its  bioequivalence  with  Viagra.  A 
question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vizarsin, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Treatment of men with erectile dysfunction, which is the inability to achieve or maintain a penile 
erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. 
In order for Vizarsin to be effective, sexual stimulation is required. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Vizarsin  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
