21 April 2017 
EMA/236014/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Erelzi 
etanercept 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Erelzi, intended for the 
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, 
plaque psoriasis and paediatric plaque psoriasis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. 
Erelzi will be available as a solution for injection (25 mg and 50 mg). The active substance of Erelzi is 
etanercept, a tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AB01). The mechanism of action 
of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF 
mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic 
responses controlled by additional downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or 
proteinases) that are induced or regulated by TNF. 
Erelzi is a biological medicinal product that is highly similar to the reference product Enbrel (etanercept), 
which was authorised in the EU on 3 February 2000. Studies have shown that Erelzi has comparable quality, 
safety and efficacy to Enbrel. 
The full indication is:  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Erelzi in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Erelzi can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Erelzi is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
Etanercept, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of 
progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who 
have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Etanercept has not been studied in children aged less than 2 years. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Etanercept has been shown to 
improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of 
peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of 
the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response 
to conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have 
a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate 
or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies.” 
It is proposed that Erelzi should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of the diseases Erelzi is used to treat. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Erelzi  
EMA/236014/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
