15 October 2020  
EMA/CHMP/537033/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Recarbrio 
imipenem / cilastatin / relebactam 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Recarbrio. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The CHMP adopted new indications as follows: 
• Treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP),
in adults.
• Treatment of bacteraemia that occurs in association with, or is suspected to be associated with HAP
or VAP, in adults.
For information, the full indications for Recarbrio will be as follows2: 
Recarbrio is indicated for: 
• Treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including ventilator associated
pneumonia (VAP), in adults (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
• Treatment of bacteraemia that occurs in association with, or is suspected to be
associated with HAP or VAP, in adults.
• Treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in adults with limited treatment
options (see sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.1).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
