31 May 2018 
EMA/352612/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Myalepta 
metreleptin 
On 31 May 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Myalepta, 
intended for the treatment of complications of leptin deficiency in patients with generalised or partial 
lipodystrophy which is often associated with severe metabolic abnormalities, including 
hypertriglyceridaemia, insulin resistance and/or diabetes.  
Myalepta was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 17 July 2012. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Aegerion Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
Myalepta will be available as an 11.3 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Myalepta is metreleptin, a recombinant human leptin analogue (ATC code: A16AA07). Metreleptin mimics 
the physiological effects of leptin by binding to and activating the human leptin receptor, thus decreasing 
various types of fat in the body and reducing their accumulation in tissues such as liver and muscle.  
The benefits with Myalepta are its ability to reduce the levels of glycated haemoglobin and triglycerides in 
patients with lipodystrophy. The most common side effects are hypoglycaemia, decrease in weight, 
injection site reactions and formation of neutralising antibodies. 
The full indication is:  
“Myalepta is indicated as an adjunct to diet as a replacement therapy to treat the complications of leptin 
deficiency in lipodystrophy (LD) patients: 
•  with confirmed congenital generalised LD (Berardinelli-Seip syndrome) or acquired generalised LD 
(Lawrence syndrome) in adults and children 2 years of age and above 
•  with confirmed familial partial LD or acquired partial LD (Barraquer-Simons syndrome), in adults and 
children 12 years of age and above for whom standard treatments have failed to achieve adequate 
metabolic control.” 
It is proposed that Myalepta be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and management of 
metabolic disorders. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Myalepta  
EMA/352612/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
