22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/215160/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Enspryng 
satralizumab 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Enspryng2, intended for 
the treatment of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) in patients from 12 years of age who 
are anti-aquaporin-4 IgG (AQP4-IgG) seropositive.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Enspryng will be available as a solution for injection (120 mg/mL) in prefilled syringes. The active substance 
of Enspryng is satralizumab, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AC19), a monoclonal antibody binding 
IL-6 receptor and thereby, preventing the pleiotropic pro-inflammatory effects involved in the pathogenesis 
of NMOSD.  
Compared  to  placebo,  Enspryng  as  a  monotherapy  or  in  combination  with  other  immunosuppressants 
reduces the risk of relapses, the main driver of neurological disability in NMOSD. The most common side 
effects are infections, arthralgia, injection site reactions, leukopenia and elevation of transaminases.  
The full indication is: 
Enspryng is indicated as a monotherapy or in combination with immunosuppressive therapy (IST) 
for  the  treatment  of  neuromyelitis  optica  spectrum  disorders  (NMOSD)  in  adult  and  adolescent 
patients from 12 years of age who are anti-aquaporin-4 IgG (AQP4-IgG) seropositive (see section 
5.1). 
Enspryng  should  be  initiated  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
neuromyelitis optica (NMO) or NMOSD.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has  been granted by 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the European Commission. 
Enspryng  
EMA/CHMP/215160/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
