26 January 2017 
EMA/CHMP/22018/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Yargesa 
miglustat 
On 26 January, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Yargesa, intended 
for treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is JensonR+ Limited. 
Yargesa will be available as capsules (100 mg). The active substance of Yargesa is miglustat, an inhibitor of 
glucosylceramide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the first step in the synthesis of glycosphingolipids 
(ATC code: A16AX06). It works as substrate reduction therapy. This means that it reduces production of 
glycosphingolipids, the substrates of the defective enzyme in patients with Gaucher disease 
(glucocerebrosidase). Reducing glycosphingolipids levels is expected to slow down or prevent symptoms of 
type 1 Gaucher disease. 
Yargesa is a generic of Zavesca, which has been authorised in the EU since 20 November 2002. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Yargesa, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Zavesca. 
A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Yargesa is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. Yargesa may be used only in the treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement 
therapy is unsuitable”. 
It is proposed that Yargesa be prescribed by physicians who are knowledgeable in the management of 
Gaucher disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
