20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/600945/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Jalra 
vildagliptin 
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending variations to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Jalra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" As triple oral therapy in combination with 
 
a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not 
provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Vildagliptin is also indicated for use in combination with insulin (with or without metformin) when diet 
and exercise plus a stable dose of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Jalra will be as follows2: 
“Vildagliptin is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults: 
As monotherapy 
 
in patients inadequately controlled by diet and exercise alone and for whom metformin is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
As dual oral therapy in combination with 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
  metformin, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose of 
monotherapy with metformin, 
 
a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose of a 
sulphonylurea and for whom metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance, 
 
a thiazolidinedione, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control and for whom the use of a 
thiazolidinedione is appropriate. 
As triple oral therapy in combination with 
  a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these 
agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Vildagliptin is also indicated for use in combination with insulin (with or without metformin) 
when diet and exercise plus a stable dose of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control.” 
Jalra 
EMA/CHMP/600945/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
