18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/782879/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Velcade 
bortezomib 
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Velcade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International N.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Velcade in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated for 
the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Velcade will be as follows2: 
Velcade as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or dexamethasone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have received at 
least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Velcade in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated for 
the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible 
for high dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is 
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell 
lymphoma who are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Velcade 
EMA/CHMP/782879/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
