19 September 2019 
EMA/505213/2019   
C ommittee for Medicinal  Products for Human  Use (C HMP) 
Summary of opinion1  (initial authorisation) 
Rhokiinsa 
netarsudil 
On 19 September 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rhokiinsa, intended for the treatment of patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Aerie Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd. 
Rhokiinsa will be available as a 200 microgram/ml eye drop solution. The active substance of Rhokiinsa is 
netarsudil, a Rho kinase inhibitor  that is thought to reduce intraocular pressure (IOP) by increasing outflow 
of aqueous humor through the trabecular outflow pathway and reducing episcleral venous pressure (ATC 
code: S01EX05). 
The benefits with Rhokiinsa are its ability to reduce IOP. The most common side effect is conjunctival 
hyperaemia. 
The full indication is: “Rhokiinsa is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult 
patients with primary open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension”. It is proposed that treatment with 
Rhokiinsa should only be initiated by an ophthalmologist or a healthcare professional qualified in 
ophthalmology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without pre judice to the C ommission de cision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from  adoption of the opinion 
Of f icial address  D omenic o Scarlattilaan 6   ●  1 0 83 H S A msterdam  ●  T he N etherlands 
A ddress f or visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how- to- find- us  
Send us a question  G o to www.ema.europa.eu/c ontac t   Telephone +3 1  (0 )8 8  7 81 6 000 
An agency  of  the European  Union    
© E uropean M edic ines  A genc y, 2 0 1 9 . Reproduc tion is  authoris ed provided the s ourc e is  ac knowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                 
