19 January 2012 
EMA/CHMP/31386/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Remicade 
infliximab 
On 19 January 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Remicade. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen Biologics 
B.V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis, in paediatric patients aged 6 to 
17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 
6-MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Remicade will be as follows: 
Rheumatoid arthritis: 
Remicade, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as 
well as the improvement in physical function in: 
 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate. 
 
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured 
by X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1). 
Adult Crohn’s disease: 
Remicade is indicated for: 
 
treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such 
therapies.  
 
treatment of fistulising, active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with conventional treatment (including 
antibiotics, drainage and immunosuppressive therapy). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease:  
Remicade is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease, in children and adolescents aged 
6 to 17 years, who have not responded to conventional therapy including a corticosteroid, an 
immunomodulator and primary nutrition therapy; or who are intolerant to or have contraindications for 
such therapies. Remicade has been studied only in combination with conventional immunosuppressive 
therapy.  
Ulcerative colitis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and  
6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of severely active ulcerative colitis, in paediatric patients aged 6 to 
17 years, who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 
6-MP or AZA, or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Ankylosing spondylitis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of severe, active ankylosing spondylitis, in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when 
the response to previous DMARD therapy has been inadequate. 
Remicade should be administered 
- in combination with methotrexate 
- or alone in patients who show intolerance to methotrexate or for whom methotrexate is 
contraindicated 
Remicade has been shown to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to 
reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1). 
EMA/CHMP/31386/2012  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriasis: 
Remicade is indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed 
to respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
cyclosporine, methotrexate or PUVA (see section 5.1). 
EMA/CHMP/31386/2012  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
