20 March 2014 
EMA/CHMP/142794/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
SYLVANT 
SILTUXIMAB 
On 20 March 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sylvant, 
100 mg and 400 mg, Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of 
multicentric Castleman’s disease (MCD). Sylvant was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 30 
November 2007. The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International NV. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Sylvant is siltuximab, a human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody that 
specifically binds to and neutralizes human IL-6 with high affinity.  
The benefits with Sylvant are its ability to reduce the tumour burden and to improve the symptoms in 
MCD patients. The most common side effects are infections (including upper respiratory tract 
infections), pruritus, and maculopapular rash. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sylvant will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Sylvant is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multicentric 
Castleman’s disease (MCD) who are human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative and human 
herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8) negative”.  It is proposed that Sylvant should be administered by qualified 
healthcare professionals and under appropriate medical supervision. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sylvant and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
