20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/703681/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva 
sevelamer 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva, strengths 800 mg and 2.4g, film-coated tablet and powder for oral 
suspension, intended for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients receiving haemodialysis 
or peritoneal dialysis and is also indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients with 
chronic kidney disease not on dialysis with serum phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/L. Sevelamer carbonate 
Zentiva should be used within the context of a multiple therapeutic approach, which could include 
calcium supplement, 1,25-dihydroxy Vitamin D3 or one of its analogues to control the development of 
renal bone disease. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe BV. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is sevelamer, a phosphate binder (ATC Code: 
V03AE02). It contains multiple amines separated by one carbon from the polymer backbone. These 
amines become partially protonated in the intestine and interact with phosphate ions through ionic and 
hydrogen bonding. By binding phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract, sevelamer lowers the phosphate 
concentration in the serum. Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva decreases the incidence of hypercalcaemic 
episodes as compared to patients using calcium based phosphate binders alone, probably because the 
product itself does not contain calcium.  
The benefits with Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva are its phosphate-lowering effect for controlling 
hyperphosphataemia in adult patients on dialysis and in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not 
on dialysis with serum phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/l. The most common side effects are nausea, 
vomiting, upper abdominal pain, constipation (very common) and diarrhoea, dyspepsia, flatulence, 
abdominal pain (common). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients 
receiving haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis.  
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva is also indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients 
with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis with serum phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/L.  
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva should be used within the context of a multiple therapeutic approach, 
which could include calcium supplement, 1,25-dihydroxy Vitamin D3 or one of its analogues to control 
the development of renal bone disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Sevelamer carbonate Zentiva 
EMA/CHMP/703681/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
