29 May 2019 
EMA/CHMP/276812/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
LysaKare 
Arginine/lysine 
On 29 May 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product LysaKare, intended for 
protecting the kidneys against radiation during radioactive therapy with lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Advanced Accelerator Applications. 
LysaKare will be available as 25 g / 25 g solution for infusion. The active substances of LysaKare are the 
amino acids L-Arginine Hydrochloride and L-Lysine Hydrochloride (ATC code: V03AF11) that decrease 
reabsorption and retention of lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide in the kidney tubules. 
The benefits with LysaKare are its ability to reduce exposure of the kidneys to radiation from lutetium (177Lu) 
oxodotreotide. The most common side effects are nausea and vomiting. 
The full indication is: “Reduction of renal radiation exposure during peptide-receptor radionuclide therapy 
(PRRT) with lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide in adults.” It is proposed that LysaKare be administered by 
physicians experienced in radioactive therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
