20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/609118/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Votubia 
everolimus  
On 20 September 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Votubia. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
" Renal angiomyolipoma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma associated with 
tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who are at risk of complications (based on factors such as tumour 
size or presence of aneurysm, or presence of multiple or bilateral tumours) but who do not require 
immediate surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in sum of angiomyolipoma volume.". 
For information, the full indication(s) for Votubia will be as follows2: 
Renal angiomyolipoma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma 
associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who are at risk of complications (based on 
factors such as tumour size or presence of aneurysm, or presence of multiple or bilateral 
tumours) but who do not require immediate surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in sum of angiomyolipoma volume. 
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of patients aged 3 years and older with subependymal giant cell 
astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who require therapeutic 
intervention but are not amenable to surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in SEGA volume. Further clinical benefit, such as 
improvement in disease-related symptoms, has not been demonstrated. 
Votubia 
EMA/CHMP/609118/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
