30 May 2013 
EMA/321062/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tysabri 
natalizumab 
On 30 May 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Tysabri. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Elan Pharma 
International Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify 
the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Adult patients aged 18 years and over with high disease activity despite treatment with glatiramer 
acetate.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Tysabri will be as follows2: 
TYSABRI is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis for the following patient groups: 
• 
Adult patients aged 18 years and over with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-
interferon or glatiramer acetate.  
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course 
(normally at least one year of treatment) of beta-interferon or glatiramer acetate. Patients 
should have had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 
T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) or at least 1 
Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” could also be defined as a patient with an 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe relapses, as compared to the previous 
year. 
or 
• 
Adult patients aged 18 years and over with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple 
sclerosis defined by 2 or more disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium 
enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a 
previous recent MRI. 
Tysabri 
EMA/321062/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
