20 March 2014 
EMA/CHMP/166776/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Pegasys  
Peginterferon alfa-2a 
On 20 March 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Pegasys. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“Pegasys is indicated in combination with other medicinal products, for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis C (CHC) in patients with compensated liver disease (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).  
For hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.2 and 5.1.“ 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Pegasys will be as follows2: 
Chronic hepatitis B 
Pegasys is indicated for the treatment of hepatitis B envelope antigen (HBeAg)-positive or HBeAg-
negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) in adult patients with compensated liver disease and evidence of 
viral replication, increased ALT and histologically verified liver inflammation and/or fibrosis (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Chronic hepatitis C 
Adult patients 
Pegasys is indicated in combination with other medicinal products, for the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in patients with compensated liver disease (see sections 4.2, 4.4 
and 5.1).  
For hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype specific activity, see sections 4.2 and 5.1. 
Paediatric patients 5 years of age and older: 
Pegasys in combination with ribavirin is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C in treatment-
naïve children and adolescents 5 years of age and older who are positive for serum HCV-RNA. 
When deciding to initiate treatment in childhood, it is important to consider growth inhibition induced 
by combination therapy. The reversibility of growth inhibition is uncertain. The decision to treat should 
be made on a case by case basis (see section 4.4). 
Pegasys 
EMA/CHMP/166776/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
