14 October 2021 
EMA/CHMP/555115/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Aspaveli 
pegcetacoplan 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Aspaveli,2 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with paroxysmal  nocturnal haemoglobinuria. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ). 
Aspaveli will be available as a 1,080 mg solution for infusion. The active substance of Aspaveli is 
pegcetacoplan, a selective immunosupressant (ATC code: L04AA54). Pegcetacoplan binds to complement 
protein C3 and its activation fragment C3b with high affinity, thereby regulating the cleavage of C3 and 
the generation of downstream effectors of complement activation. 
The benefits of Aspaveli are its ability to improve  haemoglobin levels and to avoid transfusions in patients 
with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria who are anaemic after treatment with a C5 inhibitor. The 
most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, headache, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, 
injection site reactions, fatigue and pyrexia. 
The full indication is: 
ASPAVELI is indicated in the treatment of adult patients with paroxysmal  nocturnal 
haemoglobinuria (PNH) who are anaemic after treatment with a C5 inhibitor for at least 3 months. 
ASPAVELI should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of patients with 
haematological disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report  (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of  positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days f rom adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the inf ormation available to 
date to determine if  the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
