26 March 2020  
EMA/CHMP/158590/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Adcetris 
brentuximab vedotin 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Adcetris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Takeda Pharma A/S. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
ADCETRIS in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone (CHP) is indicated 
for adult patients with previously untreated systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma (sALCL) (see 
section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Adcetris will be as follows: 
Hodgkin lymphoma 
ADCETRIS is indicated for adult patients with previously untreated CD30+ Stage IV Hodgkin 
lymphoma (HL) in combination with doxorubicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (AVD) (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
ADCETRIS is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CD30+ HL at increased risk of 
relapse or progression following autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) (see section 5.1). 
ADCETRIS is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD30+ 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL):  
1. 
following ASCT, or 
2. 
following at least two prior therapies when ASCT or multi-agent chemotherapy is 
not a treatment option. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
Systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma 
ADCETRIS in combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone (CHP) is indicated 
for adult patients with previously untreated systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma (sALCL) (see 
section 5.1). 
ADCETRIS is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory sALCL. 
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma  
ADCETRIS is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with CD30+ cutaneous T-cell lymphoma 
(CTCL) after at least 1 prior systemic therapy (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Adcetris  
EMA/CHMP/158590/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
  
 
