17 November 2011 
EMA/CHMP/796881/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Desloratadine Actavis 
desloratadine 
On 17 November 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Desloratadine Actavis, 5mg film-coated tablets intended for relief of symptoms associated with allergic 
rhinitis and urticaria. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Desloratadine Actavis is desloratadine, an antihistamine for systemic use 
(R06AX27). It works by blocking the receptors on which histamine, a substance in the body that 
causes allergic symptoms, normally fixes itself. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot 
have its effect, and this leads to a decrease in the symptoms of allergy.  
The approved indication is: “relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria”. 
Desloratadine Actavis is a generic of Aerius which has been authorised in the EU since  
15 January 2001. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Desloratadine Aerius and its 
bioequivalence with the reference product Aerius. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Desloratadine Actavis will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Desloratadine Actavis and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Desloratadine Actavis  
EMA/CHMP/796881/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
