28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/266002/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Piqray 
alpelisib 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Piqray, intended for the 
treatment of locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer with a PIK3CA mutation. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Piqray will be available as 50-mg, 150-mg and 200-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Piqray 
is alpelisib, a α-specific class-I phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3Kα) inhibitor (ATC code: L01XX65). Gain of 
function mutations in the gene encoding the catalytic α subunit of PI3K (PIK3CA) lead to activation of PI3Kα 
and AKT signalling, cellular transformation and the development of tumours. Alpelisib inhibits the 
phosphorylation of PI3K downstream targets, including AKT, which are involved in cellular proliferation.  
The benefits with Piqray are its ability to significantly improve progression-free survival in combination with 
fulvestrant. The most common side effects are increased plasma glucose and creatinine, diarrhoea, 
increased gamma glutamyltransferase, rash, lymphopenia, nausea, increased alanine aminotransferase, 
anaemia, fatigue, increased blood lipase, loss of appetite, stomatitis, vomiting, weight loss, hypocalcaemia, 
falls in plasma glucose, prolongation of activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and alopecia. 
The full indication is:  
Piqray is indicated in combination with fulvestrant for the treatment of postmenopausal women, and 
men, with hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-negative, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer with a PIK3CA mutation after disease 
progression following endocrine therapy as monotherapy.  
It is proposed that Piqray be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of cancer treatments.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
