13 October 2022 
EMA/CHMP/781052/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Qdenga 
dengue tetravalent vaccine (live, attenuated) 
On 13 October 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Qdenga, 
intended for prophylaxis against dengue disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Takeda 
GmbH. 
Qdenga will be available as a powder and solvent for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Qdenga is dengue tetravalent vaccine (live, attenuated), a viral vaccine (ATC code: J07BX04) containing 
live attenuated dengue viruses which replicate locally and elicit humoral and cellular immune responses 
against the four dengue virus serotypes. 
The benefit of Qdenga is the prevention of dengue fever, including lowering the risk of hospitalisation. 
The most common side effects are injection site pain, headache, myalgia and asthenia. 
The full indication is: 
Qdenga is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease in individuals from 4 years of age. 
The use of Qdenga should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
