28 March 2019  
EMA/CHMP/195079/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revlimid 
lenalidomide 
On 28 March 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Revlimid. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe BV. 
The CHMP adopted a change to one of the existing indications as follows:2  
“Multiple myeloma 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell transplantation. 
Revlimid as combination therapy with dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, 
or melphalan and prednisone (see section 4.2) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. 
Revlimid in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma in 
adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy.” 
For information, the full indications for Revlimid will be as follows: 
“Multiple myeloma 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma who have undergone autologous stem cell transplantation. 
Revlimid as combination therapy with dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, or 
melphalan and prednisone (see section 4.2) is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for transplant. 
Revlimid in combination with dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma in 
adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Myelodysplastic syndromes 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with transfusion-dependent 
anemia due to low- or intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes associated with an isolated 
deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality when other therapeutic options are insufficient or inadequate. 
Mantle cell lymphoma 
Revlimid as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
mantle cell lymphoma (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Revlimid  
EMA/CHMP/195079/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
