24 February 2022 
EMA/CHMP/83287/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Amversio 
betaine anhydrous 
On 24 February 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Amversio, 
intended for the treatment of homocystinuria. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is SERB S.A. 
Amversio will be available as a 1 g oral powder. The active substance of Amversio is betaine, a natural 
substance acting as a methyl group donor (ATC code: A16AA06). Betaine reduces homocysteine levels in 
the blood by transforming homocysteine into the amino acid methionine through remethylation.  
Amversio is a generic of Cystadane, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 February 2007. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Amversio. Since Amversio is administered orally and 
contains betaine (without excipients) in the same concentration as Cystadane oral solution, a 
bioequivalence study versus the reference product Cystadane was not required. A question and answer 
document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Amversio is indicated as adjunctive treatment of homocystinuria, involving deficiencies or defects in: 
•
•
•
cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS),
5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR),
cobalamin cofactor metabolism (cbl).
Amversio should be used as supplement to other therapies such as vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), vitamin 
B12 (cobalamin), folate and a specific diet. 
Amversio should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of homocystinuria. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Amversio  
EMA/CHMP/83287/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
