25 March 2021 
EMA/CHMP/172820/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Saxenda 
liraglutide 
On 25 March 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Saxenda. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication to add treatment of obesity to adolescents. For 
information, the full indications for Saxenda will be as follows:2  
Adults 
Saxenda is indicated as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity for 
weight management in adult patients with an initial Body Mass Index (BMI) of:  
•  ≥30 kg/m² (obesity), or 
•  ≥27 kg/m² to <30 kg/m² (overweight) in the presence of at least one weight-related 
comorbidity such as dysglycaemia (prediabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus), hypertension, 
dyslipidaemia or obstructive sleep apnoea. 
Treatment with Saxenda should be discontinued after 12 weeks on the 3.0 mg/day dose if 
patients have not lost at least 5% of their initial body weight. 
Adolescents (≥12 years) 
Saxenda can be used as an adjunct to a healthy nutrition and increased physical activity 
for weight management in adolescent patients from the age of 12 years and above 
with: 
•  obesity (BMI corresponding to ≥30 kg/m2 for adults by international cut-off 
points)* and 
•  body weight above 60 kg.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Saxenda should be discontinued and re-evaluated if patients have not 
lost at least 4% of their BMI or BMI z score after 12 weeks on the 3.0 mg/day or 
maximum tolerated dose. 
*IOTF BMI cut-off points for obesity by sex between 12–18 years. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Saxenda  
EMA/CHMP/172820/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
