21 February 2013 
EMA/CHMP/113913/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hexyon 
Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis B (rDNA), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) and Haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate 
vaccine (adsorbed) 
On 21 February 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Hexyon, 
0.5 ml, suspension for injection intended for primary and booster vaccination of infants and toddlers 
from six weeks to 24 months of age against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis 
and invasive diseases caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi Pasteur MSD, SNC. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Hexyon are diphtheria toxoid (D), tetanus toxoid (T), two-component acellular 
pertussis (pertussis toxoid (PTxd) and filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA)), inactivated poliomyelitis 
virus types 1, 2 and 3 (IPV), Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide (polyribosylribitol 
phosphate) conjugated to tetanus protein (PRP-T) and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). 
The benefits with Hexyon are its ability to protect infants and toddlers from six weeks to 24 months of 
age against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and invasive diseases caused by 
Haemophilus influenzae type b. The vaccine can be used as primary or a booster vaccination. It is 
given as three doses at least four weeks apart in accordance with official recommendations. 
The most common side effects are pain, swelling, induration and erythema at the injection site, 
vomiting, irritability, somnolence, anorexia, pyrexia, abnormal (prolonged) crying, and diarrhoea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Hexyon will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The approved indication is:  
“Hexyon (DTaP-IPV-HB-Hib) is indicated for primary and booster vaccination of infants and toddlers 
from six weeks to 24 months of age against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis 
and invasive diseases caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). 
The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Hexyon and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Hexyon 
EMA/CHMP/113913/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
