23 June 2016  
EMA/CHMP/420471/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
RoActemra 
tocilizumab 
On 23 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
RoActemra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
RoActemra is available in two different pharmaceutical forms, a concentrate for solution for infusion and a 
solution for subcutaneous injection. The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication for the 
solution for subcutaneous injection as follows: 
RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of severe, active and 
progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not previously treated with MTX. 
For information, the full indications for RoActemra solution for subcutaneous injection will be as follows2: 
“RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for 
• 
• 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults not 
previously treated with MTX. 
the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have 
either responded inadequately to, or who were intolerant to, previous therapy with one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or tumour necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists.  
In these patients, RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where 
continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate.  
RoActemra has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and 
to improve physical function when given in combination with methotrexate.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
