25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/443986/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. 
budesonide / formoterol 
On 25 September 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. 160/4.5 and 320/9 micrograms inhalation powder intended 
for intended for the regular treatment of asthma in adults, where use of a combination (inhaled 
corticosteroid and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate (in patients not adequately 
controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists, 
or in patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonists). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. (ATC code: R03AK07) is a fixed-dose combination of the 
active substances budesonide, an inhaled glucocorticosteroid, and formoterol, a selective long-acting 
inhaled β2 adrenoceptor agonist. Budesonide has anti-inflammatory activity in the lungs and formoterol 
has an effect on β2 adrenergic receptors on bronchial smooth muscle to produce relaxation and 
bronchodilatation. 
The benefits with Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. are its ability to provide overall asthma 
control. The most common side effects are predictable adverse reactions of β2 adrenoceptor agonist 
therapy, such as tremor and palpitations. 
A Risk Management plan for Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indications are:  
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is indicated in adults 18 years of age and older only. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Asthma  
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. is indicated in the regular treatment of asthma, 
where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonist) is 
appropriate: 
- in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” 
inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. 
or 
- in patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-
acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V.  
EMA/CHMP/443986/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
