27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/393917/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Evicel 
Human fibrinogen/Human thrombin 
On 27 June 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Evicel. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Omrix 
Biopharmaceuticals N.V. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: use for suture line sealing in dura mater closure. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Evicel will be as follows2: 
EVICEL is used as supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical techniques are insufficient, 
for improvement of haemostasis. 
EVICEL is also indicated as suture support for haemostasis in vascular surgery and for suture line 
sealing in dura mater closure. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
