13 October 2016 
EMA/CHMP/659472/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
On 13 October 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, intended for the treatment of HIV infection in adults. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is MYLAN S.A.S.  
Emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil Mylan contains as active substances the antiretrovirals emtricitabine and 
tenofovir disoproxil (ATC code: J05AR03). The medicine will be available as film-coated tablets (200 mg/245 
mg). Emtricitabine and tenofovir are substrates and competitive inhibitors of HIV reverse transcriptase. 
After phosphorylation, they are incorporated into the viral DNA chain, resulting in chain termination.  
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a generic of Truvada, which has been authorised in the EU since 
21 February 2005. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Truvada. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Treatment of HIV-1 infection: Truvada is indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment 
of HIV-1 infected adults".  
It is proposed that Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
management of HIV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
