25 June 2015  
EMA/CHMP/76738/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Respreeza 
human alpha1-proteinase inhibitor 
On  25  June  2015,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Respreeza, 
intended  for  the  treatment  of  alpha1-proteinase  inhibitor  deficiency.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is CSL Behring GmbH. Respreeza will be available as 1000 mg powder and solvent for solution for 
infusion.  The  active  substance  of  Respreeza  is  human  alpha1-proteinase  inhibitor,  an  alfa1  antitrypsin 
(B02AB02),  derived  from  collected  human  blood.  The  administration  of  the  human  alpha1-proteinase 
inhibitor  would  reach  the  lungs  where  it  would  restore  the  level  of  alpha-1  antitrypsin  in  deficient 
patients.  Alpha-1  antitrypsin  has  the  role  of  inactivating  some  substances,  such  as  elastase,  normally 
produced  by  the  body.  In  this  way  the  human  alpha1-proteinase  inhibitor  could  oppose  the  effects  of 
elastase. This action is expected to slow down the worsening of the lung disease such as the emphysema. 
The benefit with Respreeza is its ability to slow down the annual rate of lung density decline, as measured 
by  CT  scan  compared  to  placebo  over  2  years,  reflecting  a  34%  reduction.    It  has  been  evaluated  in  a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-centre study (RAPID). 
The most common side effects are hypersensitivity or allergic reactions observed during the treatment. In 
the  most  serious  cases,  allergic  reactions  may  progress  to  severe  anaphylactic  reactions  even  when  the 
patient has shown no hypersensitivity to previous administrations. 
The  full  indication  is:  "Respreeza  is  indicated  for  maintenance  treatment,  to  slow  the  progression  of 
emphysema  in  adults  with  documented  severe  alpha1-proteinase  inhibitor  deficiency  (e.g.  genotypes 
PiZZ,  PiZ(null),  Pi(null,null),  PiSZ).  Patients  are  to  be  under  optimal  pharmacologic  and  non-
pharmacologic  treatment  and  show  evidence  of  progressive  lung  disease  (e.g. lower  forced  expiratory 
volume per second (FEV1) predicted, impaired walking capacity or increased number of exacerbations) as 
evaluated  by  a  healthcare  professional  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  alpha1-proteinase  inhibitor 
deficiency". 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  European  public  assessment  report  (EPAR)  and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Respreeza  
EMA/CHMP/76738/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
