20 July 2023 
EMA/324132/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Inaqovi 
decitabine / cedazuridine 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Inaqovi, 
intended for the treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Inaqovi will be available as a 35 mg / 100 mg film-coated tablet containing a fixed combination of the 
active substances decitabine and cedazuridine (ATC code: L01BC58). Decitabine is a nucleoside metabolic 
inhibitor that inhibits the action of DNA methyltransferases, leading to hypomethylation of DNA and 
subsequent cellular differentiation and/or apoptosis. Cedazuridine is a cytidine deaminase inhibitor that 
increases systemic exposure to decitabine. 
The benefit of Inaqovi in the treatment of AML is a comparable exposure equivalent to intravenous 
infusion of decitabine at 20 mg/m2, allowing for a similar efficacy as seen for IV decitabine, with a 
complete response rate of 21% with a median duration of response of 5.8 months and an overall 
response rate of 32%. The most common side effects is thrombocytopaenia. The most common serious 
side effects are febrile neutropaenia and pneumonia. 
The full indication is: 
Inaqovi is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed 
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) who are ineligible for standard induction chemotherapy.  
Inaqovi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
