26 June 2014 
EMA/CHMP/340931/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Abasria 
Insulin glargine 
On 26 June 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Abasria, 
100 Units/ml, solution for injection intended for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Regional Operations GmbH. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Abasria is insulin glargine, a long acting insulin analogue (ATC code: A10A 
E04). Insulin glargine binds specifically to the human insulin receptor and results in the same 
pharmacological effects as human insulin.  
The benefit with Abasria is its ability to lower high blood glucose (BG). The most common side effects 
are hypoglycaemia, skin and allergic reactions and skin changes at the injection site. 
Abasria is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference medicinal product Lantus (insulin 
glargine), authorised in the EU since 9 June 2000. Studies have shown Abasria to have a comparable 
quality, safety and efficacy profile to Lantus (insulin glargine).  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Abasria will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and children aged 
2 years and above." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 74188545 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Abasria and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Abasria 
EMA/CHMP/340931/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
