31 January 2019  
EMA/CHMP/75264/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Keytruda 
pembrolizumab 
On 31 January 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Keytruda. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“KEYTRUDA, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel, is indicated for 
the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous NSCLC in adults”. 
For information, the full indications for Keytruda will be as follows: 
“KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with Stage III 
melanoma and lymph node involvement who have undergone complete resection (see section 
5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell 
lung carcinoma (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% tumour proportion 
score (TPS) with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations. 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, is indicated for the 
first-line treatment of metastatic non-squamous NSCLC in adults whose tumours have no EGFR or 
ALK positive mutations. 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel, is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous NSCLC in adults. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC 
in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 1% TPS and who have received at least one prior 
chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations should also have 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
received targeted therapy before receiving KEYTRUDA. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) who have failed autologous stem cell transplant 
(ASCT) and brentuximab vedotin (BV), or who are transplant-ineligible and have failed BV. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who have received prior platinum-containing chemotherapy (see 
section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy and 
whose tumours express PD L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 10 (see section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% TPS and 
progressing on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy (see section 5.1)”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/75264/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
