26 January 2023 
EMA/CHMP/30966/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun 
sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On  26  January  2023,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  Sun,  intended  for  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun will be available as 50 mg/1000 mg and 50 mg/850 mg film-coated 
tablets.  The  active  substances  of  Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  Sun  are  sitagliptin  and  metformin 
hydrochloride, two oral blood glucose-lowering drugs used in combination (ATC code: A10BD07). Sitagliptin 
is a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor that improves glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes 
by  increasing  the  levels  of  active  incretin  hormones,  leading  to  enhanced  glucose-dependent  insulin 
secretion and reduced glucagon release. Metformin hydrochloride, a member of the biguanide class, works 
mainly by inhibiting glucose production in the liver and reducing its absorption in the gut. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is a generic of Janumet, which has been authorised in the EU since 
16  July  2008.  Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride 
Sun, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Janumet. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
For adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve 
glycaemic control in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin 
alone or those already being treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  Sun  is  indicated  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  (i.e., 
triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled 
on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  Sun  is  indicated  as  triple  combination  therapy  with  a 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist (i.e., a thiazolidinedione) as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose 
of metformin and a PPARγ agonist. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin  hydrochloride  Sun  is  also  indicated  as  add-on  to  insulin  (i.e.,  triple 
combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients 
when stable dose of insulin and metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by 
the European Commission. 
Sitagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Sun  
EMA/CHMP/30966/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
