20 September 2018 
EMA/CHMP/583486/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Alunbrig 
brigatinib 
On 20 September 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Alunbrig, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with crizotinib. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Takeda Pharma A/S. 
Alunbrig will be available as film-coated tablets (30 mg, 90 mg and 180 mg). The active substance of 
Alunbrig is brigatinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01XE43) that inhibits autophosphorylation of 
ALK, ALK-mediated phosphorylation of downstream signalling proteins and proliferation of ALK-dependent 
cancer cells. 
The benefits with Alunbrig are its ability to produce a response in patients with ALK-positive NSCLC 
previously treated with crizotinib, with an objective response rate of 56% (ITT population) in a phase II 
study. 
The most common side effects are hyperglycaemia, hyperinsulinaemia, anaemia, increased CPK, nausea, 
increased lipase, decreased lymphocyte count, increased ALT and AST, diarrhoea, increased amylase, 
fatigue, cough, headache, increased alkaline phosphatase, hypophosphataemia, increased APTT, rash, 
vomiting, dyspnoea, hypertension, decreased white blood cell count, myalgia, and peripheral neuropathy. 
The full indication is:  
“Alunbrig is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
(ALK) positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with crizotinib”.  
It is proposed that Alunbrig be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal 
products. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Alunbrig  
EMA/CHMP/583486/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
