21 March 2013 
EMA/CHMP/158160/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Stribild 
Elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil   
On 21 March 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Stribild, 
150 mg / 150 mg / 200 mg / 245 mg, film-coated tablets intended for treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over who are antiretroviral 
treatment-naïve or are infected with HIV 1 without known mutations associated with resistance to any 
of the three antiretroviral agents in Stribild (see section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Gilead Sciences International Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Stribild are elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil , an 
antiviral for treatment of HIV infections, combinations (ATC code 05AR 09). Elvitegravir is an HIV-1 
integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI), cobicistat enhances the systemic exposure of elvitegravir, 
emtricitabine is a nucleoside analogue of cytidine and tenofovir, is a nucleoside monophosphate 
(nucleotide) analogue of adenosine monophosphate. 
The benefits with Stribild are its ability to reduce the viral load to undetectable levels (< 50 HIV-1 RNA 
copies/ml. The most common side effects are hypophosphataemia, headache, dizziness, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, nausea, rash, asthenia and elevated creatine kinase. The types of renal adverse reactions 
seen with Stribild were consistent with previous experience with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.  There 
are currently inadequate data to determine whether co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
and cobicistat is associated with a greater risk of renal adverse reactions compared with regimens that 
include tenofovir disoproxil fumarate without cobicistat. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Stribild will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Stribild is indicated for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 
(HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over who are antiretroviral treatment-naïve or are 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
infected with HIV-1 without known mutations associated with resistance to any of the three 
antiretroviral agents in Stribild (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).". 
It is proposed that Stribild therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the management 
of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Stribild and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Stribild 
EMA/CHMP/158160/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
