15 December 2016 
EMA/CHMP/816889/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vihuma 
simoctocog alfa 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vihuma, 
intended for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII 
deficiency). The applicant for this medicinal product is Octapharma AB. 
Vihuma will be available as a powder (250 IU, 500 IU, 1000 IU and 2000 IU) and solvent for solution for 
injection. The active substance of Vihuma is simoctocog alfa, a recombinant blood coagulation factor VIII 
(ATC code: B02BD02) that replaces the missing factor VIII, thereby giving temporary control of the bleeding 
disorder.  
Vihuma has been shown to be effective at preventing and treating bleeding in 3 pivotal trials. No side effects 
were commonly reported in the safety database of 135 previously treated patients. The immunogenicity of 
the medicine was evaluated in clinical trials in 135 previously treated patients with severe haemophilia A (74 
adult and 61 paediatric patients). None of the patients developed inhibitors.  
Vihuma has been submitted as an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine and the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product for 
Vihuma is Nuwiq. 
The full indication for Vihuma is: "Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Vihuma can be used for all age groups." It is proposed that Vihuma 
should be used under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
