15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/697344/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Zytiga 
abiraterone 
On 15 November 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Zytiga. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International N V. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"ZYTIGA is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: the treatment of metastatic castration 
resistant prostate cancer in adult men who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of 
androgen deprivation therapy in whom chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated". 
The CHMP adopted a new contraindication as follows: 
"Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C)". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Zytiga will be as follows2: 
ZYTIGA is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: 
• 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated 
• 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer in adult men whose disease 
has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based chemotherapy regimen. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
