European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/561136/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PEGASYS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): peginterferon alfa-2a 
On  23  October  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Pegasys. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows: 
“The optimal way to use Pegasys in patients with chronic hepatitis C is in combination with ribavirin. 
The combination of Pegasys and ribavirin is indicated in naive patients and patients who have 
failed  previous  treatment  with  interferon  alpha  (pegylated  or  non-pegylated)  alone  or  in 
combination therapy with ribavirin”. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Pegasys will be as follows***: 
Chronic hepatitis B: 
Pegasys  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  HBeAg-positive  or  HBeAg-negative  chronic  hepatitis  B  in 
adult  patients  with  compensated  liver  disease  and  evidence  of  viral  replication,  increased  ALT  and 
histologically verified liver inflammation and/or fibrosis (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Chronic hepatitis C: 
Pegasys  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  hepatitis  C  in  adult  patients  who  are  positive  for 
serum  HCV-RNA,  including  patients  with  compensated  cirrhosis  and/or  co-infected  with  clinically 
stable HIV (see section 4.4). 
The optimal way to use Pegasys in patients with chronic hepatitis C is in combination with ribavirin. 
The combination of Pegasys and ribavirin is indicated in naive patients and patients who have 
failed  previous  treatment  with  interferon  alpha  (pegylated  or  non-pegylated)  alone  or  in 
combination therapy with ribavirin. 
Monotherapy is indicated mainly in case of intolerance or contraindication to ribavirin. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
