28 May 2020 
EMA/CHMP/270357/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hepcludex 
bulevirtide 
On 28 May 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Hepcludex3, intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis delta virus (HDV) infection in adult patients with 
compensated liver disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is MYR GmbH. 
Hepcludex will be available as a 2 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of Hepcludex 
is bulevirtide, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AX28). Bulevirtide blocks the entry of hepatitis 
B virus (HBV) and HDV into hepatocytes by binding to and inactivating NTCP, a bile salt liver transporter 
that serves as an essential HBV/HDV entry receptor. 
The benefit with Hepcludex is its ability to effectively reduce HDV RNA levels and signs of liver 
inflammation in treated patients. The most common side effects are increases in bile salts, injection site 
reactions and exacerbation of hepatitis after discontinuation of bulevirtide. 
The full indication is: 
Hepcludex is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis delta virus (HDV) infection in plasma 
(or serum) HDV-RNA positive adult patients with compensated liver disease. 
It is proposed that Hepcludex be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of patients with 
HDV infection.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
