26 May 2016  
EMA/CHMP/170461/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bortezomib SUN 
bortezomib 
On 26 May 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bortezomib SUN, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is SUN Pharmaceutical Industries (Europe) B.V. 
Bortezomib SUN will be available as a 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of 
Bortezomib SUN is bortezomib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX32). Bortezomib is a cytotoxic 
chemical entity that inhibits the proteolytic activity of the proteasome, a proteolytic complex that is involved 
in the breakdown of cellular proteins. 
Bortezomib SUN is a generic of Velcade, which has been authorised in the EU since 26 April 2004. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Bortezomib SUN. Since Bortezomib SUN is administered 
intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product Velcade was 
not required.  
A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Bortezomib SUN as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma who have 
received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib SUN in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy with 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib SUN in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is indicated 
for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible for 
high-dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Bortezomib SUN in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is indicated 
for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.” 
It is proposed that Bortezomib SUN must be initiated and administered under the supervision of a physician 
qualified and experienced in the use of chemotherapeutic agents. Bortezomib SUN must be reconstituted by 
a healthcare professional. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Bortezomib SUN  
EMA/CHMP/170461/2016 
Page 2/2 
  
  
