14 September 2017 
EMA/CHMP/587955/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Elebrato Ellipta 
fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Elebrato Ellipta, 
intended for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services. 
Elebrato Ellipta will be available as 92 µg / 55 µg / 22 µg Inhalation powder, pre-dispensed. The active 
substances of Elebrato Ellipta are fluticasone furoate / umeclidinium / vilanterol, Drugs for obstructive 
airways disease (ATC code: R03AL08). Both umeclidinium (a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist 
) and vilanterol (a selective long-acting, beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist ) act locally to produce 
bronchodilatation by separate mechanisms . Umeclidinium exerts its bronchodilatory activity by 
competitively inhibiting the binding of acetylcholine with muscarinic receptors on airway smooth muscle. 
Vilanterol stimulates the enzyme catalysing AMP into cyclic AMP leading to relaxation of bronchial smooth 
muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells. 
Fluticasone furoate is a corticosteroid and reduces inflammation . 
The benefits with Elebrato Ellipta are its ability to improve lung function (as defined by change from baseline 
trough FEV1 at Week 24; co-primary endpoint) compared with budesonide/formoterol (BUD/FOR) 400 
/12 micrograms administered twice-daily  in moderate to severe  patients not adequately controlled  with 
corticosteroid and long acting Β agonist.   
The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis (7%), upper respiratory tract infection (2%) and 
headache (5%).   
The full indication is:  
Elebrato Ellipta is indicated as a maintenance treatment in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who are not adequately treated by a combination of an inhaled 
corticosteroid and a long-acting β2-agonist (for effects on symptom control see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Elebrato Ellipta  
EMA/CHMP/587955/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
