15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/925958/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tremelimumab AstraZeneca 
tremelimumab 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tremelimumab AstraZeneca, intended for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Tremelimumab AstraZeneca will be available as a 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
active substance of Tremelimumab AstraZeneca is tremelimumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: 
L01FX20). It binds to CTLA-4, which is primarily expressed on the surface of T lymphocytes, and thus 
enhances T-cell activation and proliferation, resulting in increased T-cell diversity and enhanced anti-
tumour activity. 
The benefits of Tremelimumab AstraZeneca in combination with durvalumab and platinum-based 
chemotherapy, in the first-line treatment of metastatic NSCLC, are improvements in overall survival and 
progression-free survival compared with standard of care (chemotherapy), as observed in a randomised, 
open-label Phase III study. The most common side effects are anaemia, nausea, neutropenia, fatigue, 
rash, thrombocytopenia and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is: 
Tremelimumab AstraZeneca in combination with durvalumab and platinum-based 
chemotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of adults with metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) with no sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK positive mutations. 
Tremelimumab AstraZeneca should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
