16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/683625/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Saphnelo 
anifrolumab 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Saphnelo, 
intended for the treatment of moderate to severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
Saphnelo will be available as a 300 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Saphnelo is anifrolumab, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA51). Anifrolumab is a 
monoclonal antibody which binds to subunit 1 of the type I interferon receptor blocking the biologic 
activity of type I interferons. 
The benefit of Saphnelo is an increase in proportion of patients with BICLA response at week 52 (defined 
as improvement in all organ domains with moderate or severe SLE activity at baseline) compared with 
placebo. The most common side effects are upper respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, infusion-related 
reaction and herpes zoster. The most common serious adverse reaction was herpes zoster. 
The full indication is: 
Saphnelo is indicated as an add-on therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to 
severe, active autoantibody-positive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), despite standard 
therapy. 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of SLE. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
