26 January 2017 
EMA/CHMP/37961/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Daptomycin Hospira 
daptomycin 
On 26 January 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Daptomycin 
Hospira, intended for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI), right-sided 
infective endocarditis (RIE) due to Staphylococcus aureus and S. aureus bacteraemia associated with RIE or 
with cSSTI. The applicant for this medicinal product is Hospira UK Limited. 
Daptomycin Hospira will be available as a powder for solution for injection/infusion (350 mg and 500 mg). 
The active substance of Daptomycin Hospira is daptomycin, a cyclic lipopeptide active against Gram-positive 
bacteria only (ATC code: J01XX09). Daptomycin binds to bacterial membranes, causing rapid inhibition of 
protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis, resulting in bacterial cell death.  
Daptomycin Hospira is a generic of Cubicin, which has been authorised in the EU since 19 January 2006. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Daptomycin Hospira. Since Daptomycin Hospira is 
administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product 
was not required. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
"Daptomycin Hospira is indicated for the treatment of the following infections (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
•  Adult and paediatric (1 to 17 years of age) patients with complicated skin and soft-tissue infections 
(cSSTI). 
•  Adult patients with right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due to Staphylococcus aureus. It is 
recommended that the decision to use daptomycin should take into account the antibacterial 
susceptibility of the organism and should be based on expert advice (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
•  Adult patients with Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia (SAB) when associated with RIE or with cSSTI.  
Daptomycin is active against Gram-positive bacteria only (see section 5.1). In mixed infections where 
Gram-negative and/or certain types of anaerobic bacteria are suspected, daptomycin should be 
co-administered with appropriate antibacterial agent(s).  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Daptomycin Hospira  
EMA/CHMP/37961/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
