20 May 2021 
EMA/CHMP/241760/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Blincyto 
blinatumomab 
On 20 May 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Blincyto. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year or 
older with high-risk first relapsed Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B-precursor 
ALL as part of the consolidation therapy (see section 4.2). 
For information, the full indications for Blincyto will be as follows: 
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with CD19 positive relapsed or 
refractory B precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Patients with Philadelphia 
chromosome positive B-precursor ALL should have failed treatment with at least 2 tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and have no alternative treatment options. 
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome 
negative CD19 positive B-precursor ALL in first or second complete remission with minimal 
residual disease (MRD) greater than or equal to 0.1%. 
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year or 
older with Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B precursor ALL which is refractory 
or in relapse after receiving at least two prior therapies or in relapse after receiving prior 
allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Blincyto is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year or 
older with high-risk first relapsed Philadelphia chromosome negative CD19 positive B-precursor 
ALL as part of the consolidation therapy (see section 4.2).  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Blincyto  
EMA/CHMP/241760/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
