26 April 2019 
EMA/CHMP/225317/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Striascan 
ioflupane (123I) 
On 26 April 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Striascan, intended for 
the diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease and other related diseases and dementia. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is CIS BIO International. 
Striascan will be available as a solution for injection (74 MBq/ml). The active substance of Striascan is 
ioflupane (123I), a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical (ATC code: V09AB03) acting as a dopamine transporter 
imaging agent for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). 
Striascan is a generic of DaTSCAN, which has been authorised in the EU since 27 July 2000. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Striascan. Since Striascan is administered intravenously and is 
100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product DaTSCAN was not required. A 
question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
Striascan is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
• 
• 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonian syndromes related to 
idiopathic Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. Striascan is 
unable to discriminate between Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive 
supranuclear palsy. 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s disease. 
Striascan is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease 
dementia.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Striascan  
EMA/CHMP/225317/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
