23 February 2023  
EMA/CHMP/67344/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Rinvoq 
upadacitinib 
On 23 February 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rinvoq. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. 
KG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Crohn’s disease 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease who have had an inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to 
either conventional therapy or a biologic agent. 
For information, the full indications for RINVOQ will be as follows:2 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult 
patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). RINVOQ may be used as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more DMARDs. RINVOQ may be used 
as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA) 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis in adult 
patients with objective signs of inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) 
and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), who have responded inadequately to nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS, radiographic axial spondyloarthritis) 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active ankylosing spondylitis in adult patients who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Atopic dermatitis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and 
adolescents 12 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Ulcerative colitis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to 
either conventional therapy or a biologic agent. 
Crohn’s disease 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease who have had an inadequate response, lost response or were 
intolerant to either conventional therapy or a biologic agent. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Rinvoq  
EMA/CHMP/67344/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
