9 November 2017 
EMA/727638/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Fasenra 
benralizumab 
On 9 November 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Fasenra, 
intended for the treatment of severe eosinophilic asthma. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
AstraZeneca AB. 
Fasenra will be available as 30-mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringes. The active substance of 
Fasenra is benralizumab, an anti-eosinophil, humanised monoclonal antibody (ATC code: R03DX10). 
Benralizumab binds to the human interleukin-5 receptor expressed on the surface of eosinophils and 
basophils. This leads to apoptosis of eosinophils and basophils through enhanced antibody-dependent 
cell-mediated cytotoxicity, and therefore, reduces eosinophilic inflammation.  
The benefits with Fasenra are its ability to induce depletion of eosinophils in the blood and lung. This leads 
to significant reductions in annual exacerbation rates compared with placebo, especially in patients with 
more than 300 eosinophilsmicrolitre of blood pre-treatment. The most frequent side effects are headache 
(8%) and pharyngitis (3%). 
The full indication is: “Fasenra is indicated as an add-on maintenance treatment in adult patients with severe 
eosinophilic asthma inadequately controlled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids plus long-acting 
β-agonists.” 
It is proposed that Fasenra be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of severe 
asthma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
