15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/538747/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tecartus 
autologous anti-CD19-transduced CD3+ cells 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tecartus2, intended for the treatment of relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). As Tecartus 
is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an assessment by the 
Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Kite Pharma EU B.V. 
Tecartus is an autologous T-cell immunotherapy which will be available as a dispersion for infusion (0.4–
2.0 x 108 cells). The active substance in Tecartus is genetically modified autologous anti-CD19-
transduced CD3+ cells. By binding to CD19-expressing cancer cells and normal B cells, the medicine 
starts T-cell activation and secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. This sequence of events 
leads to killing of CD19-expressing cells. 
The benefit of Tecartus is the tumour shrinkage (response) of mantle cell lymphoma which had relapsed 
or was refractory to other treatment. The most common side effects are cytokine release syndrome, 
infections and encephalopathy. 
The full indication is: 
Tecartus is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell 
lymphoma (MCL) after two or more lines of systemic therapy including a Bruton’s tyrosine 
kinase (BTK) inhibitor. 
Tecartus should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma and 
must be administered in a qualified treatment centre by a physician with experience in the treatment of 
haematological malignancies and trained for administration and management of patients treated with 
Tecartus.   
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tecartus  
EMA/CHMP/538747/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
