22 June 2017  
EMA/CHMP/377462/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Soliris 
eculizumab 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Soliris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Alexion Europe SAS. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Refractory generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) in patients who are anti-acetylcholine receptor 
(AChR) antibody-positive (see section 5.1)." 
For information, the full indications for Soliris will be as follows:2 
"Soliris is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of: 
• 
Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). 
Evidence of clinical benefit is demonstrated in patients with haemolysis with clinical symptom(s) 
indicative of high disease activity, regardless of transfusion history (see section 5.1). 
•  Atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) (see section 5.1). 
•  Refractory generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) in patients who are anti-acetylcholine 
receptor (AChR) antibody-positive (see section 5.1)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
