European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/771707/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RISTFOR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride  
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ristfor, 
50  mg  /  850  mg,  50  mg  /  1000  mg,  film-coated  tablet  intended  for  patients  with  type 2  diabetes 
mellitus.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The  active  substances  of  Ristfor  (A10BD07),  a  combination  product  of  oral  blood  glucose-lowering 
drugs,  are  sitagliptin  and  metformin  hydrochloride.  Sitagliptin  is  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase-4  (DPP-4) 
inhibitor.  DPP-4  inhibition  reduces  the  cleavage  and  inactivation  of  the  active  (intact)  form  of  the 
incretin  hormones,  including  GLP-1  (glucagon-like  peptide  1)  and  GIP  (glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic  polypeptide).  This  way  active  incretin  concentrations  are  elevated  and  that  leads  to 
enhancement  of  glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in  glucagon  release,  thus 
contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  glucose  homeostasis.  Metformin  is  a  biguanide  and  has  an 
antihyperglycaemic  effect,  lowering  both  basal  and  postprandial  plasma  glucose  concentrations  via 
various mechanisms, including decreasing hepatic glucose production, decreasing intestinal absorption 
of glucose, and improving insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilisation. 
Ristfor combines these two antidiabetic agents with complementary mechanisms of action. 
The benefits with Ristfor are its clinically relevant and significant reduction of blood glucose levels in 
patients  inadequately  controlled  by  metformin  alone,  although  non-inferior  efficacy  versus  the 
addition  of  glipizide  was  not  proven,  a  clinically  relevant  improvement  of  glycaemic  control  when 
added to a SU agent, and a presumed improvement of compliance by use of two antidiabetic agents in 
one tablet to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. The effect on body weight is 
similar to that of metformin alone. The most common side effect when taking Ristfor is nausea. When 
sitagliptin  is  taken  as  monotherapy  side  effects  in  excess  (0.2%  of  patients  and  >1  patient)  of  that  in 
patients receiving placebo are headache, hypoglycaemia, constipation, and dizziness. Furthermore, the 
following adverse reactions for the metformin component are known: gastrointestinal symptoms such 
as  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  loss  of  appetite,  and  metallic  taste.  When  Ristfor  is 
taken in combination with a sulphonylurea, common side effects are low blood sugar and constipation. 
When  taking  Ristfor  with  PPARγ  agonists  the  most  common  side  effects  are  headache,  diarrhoea, 
vomiting, low blood sugar and foot swelling. When taking Ristfor with insulin the most common side 
effect is low blood sugar. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ristfor, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of 
the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
Ristfor  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients 
inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being 
treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. 
Ristfor  is  indicated  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  (i.e.,  triple  combination  therapy)  as  an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea. 
Ristfor is indicated as triple combination therapy with a PPARγ agonist (i.e., a thiazolidinedione) as an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
metformin and a PPARγ agonist.  
Ristfor is also indicated as add-on to insulin (i.e., triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients when stable dosage of insulin and metformin alone 
do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  reference  product  Janumet, 
considers  that  there  is  favourable  benefits  to  risk  balance  for  Ristfor  and  therefore  recommends  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
