20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/325146/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Orserdu 
elacestrant 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Orserdu, 
intended for the treatment of ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in patients with ESR1 gene 
mutations. The applicant for this medicinal product is Stemline Therapeutics B.V. 
Orserdu will be available as 86 mg and 345 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Orserdu is 
elacestrant, an anti-oestrogen endocrine therapy (ATC code: L02BA04). Elacestrant selectively binds to 
oestrogen receptor-α (ERα) and degrades ERα protein, disrupting ERα signalling and thereby inhibiting 
the growth of ERα-positive breast cancer cells, including those harbouring oestrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) 
gene mutations. 
The benefit of Orserdu is an improved progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with ER-positive, 
HER2-negative advanced breast cancer with an activating ESR1 mutation who had relapsed after at least 
one prior endocrine therapy in combination with a CDK4/6 inhibitor, when compared to standard of care.  
The most common side effects are nausea, increased triglyceride and cholesterol levels, vomiting, fatigue, 
dyspepsia, diarrhoea, decreased calcium, sodium and potassium levels, back pain, increased creatinine 
levels, arthralgia, constipation, headache, hot flush, abdominal pain, anaemia and increased alanine 
aminotransferase levels.  
The full indication is: 
ORSERDU monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women, and men, with 
estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, HER2-negative, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
with an activating ESR1 mutation who have disease progression following at least one line of 
endocrine therapy including a CDK 4/6 inhibitor. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orserdu should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Orserdu  
EMA/CHMP/325146/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
