14 October 2021 
EMA/CHMP/572279/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rybrevant 
amivantamab 
On 14 October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation2 for the medicinal product 
Rybrevant, intended for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutations. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Rybrevant will be available as a 350 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Rybrevantis amivantamab, a fully human IgG1-based EGFR MET bispecific antibody that targets tumours 
with activating EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations (ATC code: L01FX18). 
The benefits of Rybrevant are its objective response rate and response duration in NSCLC patients with 
EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations after failure of platinum-based therapy. The most common side effects 
are rash, infusion related reactions, nail toxicity, hypoalbuminemia, oedema, fatigue, stomatitis, nausea, 
and constipation. 
The full indication is: 
Rybrevant as monotherapy is indicated for treatment of adult patients with advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) Exon 20 
insertion mutations, after failure of platinum-based therapy. 
Rybrevant should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of cancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
