16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/610605/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Kerendia 
finerenone 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Kerendia, 
intended for the treatment of chronic kidney disease associated with  type 2 diabetes in adults. 
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Bayer AG. 
Kerendia will be available as 10  mg and 20  mg film-coated tablets.  The active substance of Kerendia is 
finerenone, an aldosterone antagonist belonging to  diuretics (ATC code: C03DA05). Finerenone is a non-
steroidal, selective antagonist of the mineralocorticoid receptor. It reduces the  expression of 
pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic mediators. 
The benefit of Kerendia is its  ability to delay the progression of kidney disease in adults with  chronic 
kidney disease and type 2 diabetes compared with  placebo.  
The most common side effects are hyperkalaemia, decreased eGFR and hypotension. 
The full indication is: 
Kerendia is indicated for the  treatment of chronic kidney disease (stage 3 and 4 with  albuminuria) 
associated with  type 2 diabetes in adults. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
