European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc. Ref.: EMA/CHMP/822467/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
HERCEPTIN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): trastuzumab 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Herceptin. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Metastatic  Gastric Cancer (MGC) 
Herceptin  in  combination  with  capecitabine  or  5-fluorouracil  and  cisplatin  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment  of  patients  with  HER2  positive  metastatic  adenocarcinoma  of  the  stomach  or  gastro-
esophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic disease. 
Herceptin should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer whose tumours have HER2 
overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory FISH+ result, or IHC 3+, as determined by an 
accurate and validated assay.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.” 
For information, the full indications for Herceptin will be as follows***: 
Breast Cancer 
Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) 
Herceptin is indicated for the treatment of patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer: 
a)  as  monotherapy  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  received  at  least  two  chemotherapy 
regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at least an anthracycline 
and  a  taxane  unless  patients  are  unsuitable  for  these  treatments.  Hormone  receptor  positive  patients 
must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b)  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
c)  in  combination  with  docetaxel  for  the  treatment  of  those  patients  who  have  not  received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
d)  in  combination  with  an  aromatase  inhibitor  for  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  patients  with 
hormone-receptor positive metastatic breast cancer, not previously treated with trastuzumab.  
Early Breast Cancer (EBC) 
Herceptin is indicated for the treatment of patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer following 
surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable). 
Herceptin should only be used in patients with metastatic or early breast cancer whose tumours have 
either HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated 
assay. 
Metastatic  Gastric Cancer (MGC) 
Herceptin  in  combination  with  capecitabine  or  5-fluorouracil  and  cisplatin  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment  of  patients  with  HER2  positive  metastatic  adenocarcinoma  of  the  stomach  or  gastro-
esophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic disease. 
Herceptin should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer whose tumours have HER2 
overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory FISH+ result, or IHC 3+, as determined by an 
accurate and validated assay. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
