22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/211128/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Onureg 
azacitidine 
On 22 April 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Onureg, 
intended for the maintenance treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
Onureg will be available as 200 mg and 300 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Onureg is 
azacitidine, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01BC07). Azacitidine is similar to cytidine, a building 
block of the genetic material (DNA and RNA) of cells. It exerts its antineoplastic effects by multiple 
mechanisms, including cytotoxicity on cells in the bone marrow and hypomethylation of DNA. 
The benefit of Onureg is its ability to improve the overall survival. The most common side effects are 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and haematological sides effects (neutropenia and thrombocytopenia). 
The full indication is: 
‘Onureg is indicated as maintenance therapy in adult patients with acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML) who achieved complete remission (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood count 
recovery (CRi) following induction therapy with or without consolidation treatment and who are 
not candidates for, including those who choose not to proceed to, hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT).’ 
Onureg should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of chemotherapeutic medicinal 
products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
