European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/86990/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
FORSTEO 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): teriparatide  
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Forsteo. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the therapeutic indication as follows: 
“Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and 
men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for  Forsteo will be as follows***: 
“Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non-
vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women 
and men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1).” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
