25 January 2018 
EMA/CHMP/811150/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Shingrix 
Herpes zoster vaccine (recombinant, adjuvanted) 
On 25 January 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Shingrix, intended for prophylaxis of herpes zoster. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
GlaxoSmithkline Biologicals SA. 
Shingrix will be available as a powder and suspension liquid to be made into a suspension for 
injection. The active substance of Shingrix is varicella zoster virus glycoprotein E antigen (VZV gE) 
(ATC code: J07BK03). In Shingrix, VZV gE is combined with an adjuvant (AS01B), and is designed 
to induce antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune responses in individuals with pre-existing 
immunity against varicella zoster virus. 
The benefits with Shingrix are its ability to significantly decrease the incidence of herpes zoster and 
consequently of post-herpetic neuralgia compared with placebo. The most common side effects are 
pain at the injection site, myalgia, fatigue and headache. 
The full indication is: "Shingrix is indicated for prevention of herpes zoster (HZ) and post-herpetic 
neuralgia (PHN), in adults 50 years of age or older (see section 5.1). The use of Shingrix should be 
in accordance with official recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
