10 November 2016  
EMA/CHMP/737990/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Movymia 
teriparatide 
On 10 November 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Movymia, 
intended for the treatment of osteoporosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is STADA Arzneimittel 
AG. 
Movymia will be available as solution for injection (20 micrograms/80 microliters). The active substance 
of Movymia is teriparatide, the active aminoterminal fragment of human parathyroid hormone (ATC code: 
H05AA02). It acts via the receptor for parathyroid hormone and has an anabolic effect on bone. 
The expected benefits with Movymia are its ability to increase bone mineral density in the lumbar spine 
and hip and to reduce the risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures (other than the hip) in 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The most common side effect is pain in the arm or leg. 
Movymia is a biosimilar medicinal product highly similar to the reference product Forsteo. Studies have 
shown Movymia to have comparable quality, safety and efficacy to Forsteo. 
The full indication is:  
"Movymia is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non 
vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men 
at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
