25 February 2016  
EMA/CHMP/130102/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lonsurf 
trifluridine / tipiracil 
On 25 February 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lonsurf, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Les Laboratoires Servier. 
Lonsurf will be available as film-coated tablets (15 mg / 6.14 mg and 20 mg / 8.19 mg). It is an 
antineoplastic agent combined with a thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor (ATC code: L01BC59). The active 
substances are trifluridine and tipiracil.  
Trifluridine is phosphorylated by thymidine kinase, further metabolised in cells to a deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) substrate, and incorporated directly into DNA, thereby interfering with DNA function and 
preventing cell proliferation. The role of tipiracil is to inhibit the degradation of trifluridine by thymidine 
phosphorylase. 
When added to best supportive care (BSC) Lonsurf improved survival compared to BSC alone. The most 
common side effects are neutropenia, nausea, fatigue, anaemia and leucopenia. 
The full indication is:  
"Lonsurf is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have 
been previously treated with, or are not considered candidates for, available therapies including 
fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based chemotherapies, anti-VEGF agents, and anti-EGFR 
agents". It is proposed that Lonsurf be prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of 
anticancer therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
