15 September 2016 
EMA/CHMP/582037/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Stelara 
ustekinumab 
On 15 September 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending changes to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Stelara. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Crohn’s Disease 
Stelara is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s 
disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a TNFα antagonist or have medical contraindications to such therapies.” 
For information, the full indications for Stelara will be as follows2: 
“Plaque psoriasis 
Stelara is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who failed to 
respond to, or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapies including 
ciclosporin, methotrexate (MTX) or PUVA (psoralen and ultraviolet A) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
STELARA is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adolescent patients 
from the age of 12 years and older, who are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other 
systemic therapies or phototherapies (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
Stelara, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis 
in adult patients when the response to previous non-biological disease modifying anti rheumatic 
drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Crohn’s Disease 
Stelara is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were 
intolerant to either conventional therapy or a TNFα antagonist or have medical 
contraindications to such therapies.” 
In addition, the CHMP recommended the approval of a new intravenous formulation which is to be used in 
the Crohn’s disease indication only. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Stelara  
EMA/CHMP/582037/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
