18 October 2018 
EMA/CHMP/688548/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ogivri 
trastuzumab 
On 18 October 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ogivri, intended 
for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Ogivri will be available as a 150-mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Ogivri is trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01XC03) that binds with high affinity and 
specificity to HER2 leading to the inhibition of proliferation of tumour cells that overexpress HER2. 
Ogivri is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Herceptin (trastuzumab), 
which was authorised in the EU on 28 August 2000. Data show that Ogivri has comparable quality, safety 
and efficacy to Herceptin. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Breast cancer 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Ogivri is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC): 
• 
• 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two 
chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at 
least an anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
Hormone receptor positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are 
unsuitable for these treatments 
in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable 
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients with 
hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
Early breast cancer 
Ogivri is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer (EBC): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) 
(see section 5.1) 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination with 
paclitaxel or docetaxel 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant Ogivri therapy, for locally 
advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). 
Ogivri should only be used in patients with metastatic or EBC whose tumours have either HER2 
overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated assay (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Ogivri in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal 
junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic disease. 
Ogivri should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours have 
HER2 overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ 
result. Accurate and validated assay methods should be used (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Ogivri  
EMA/CHMP/688548/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
