26 July 2018 
EMA/CHMP/395605/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kigabeq 
vigabatrin 
On 26 July 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a paediatric use marketing authorisation (PUMA) for the medicinal 
product Kigabeq, intended for the treatment of infantile spasms (West's syndrome) and resistant partial 
epilepsy (focal onset seizures) in infants and children. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
ORPHELIA Pharma SAS. 
Kigabeq will be available as breakable soluble tablets (100 mg and 500 mg). The active substance of 
Kigabeq is vigabatrin, an antiepileptic (ATC code: N03AG04) whose anticonvulsant activity is mediated 
through the selective and irreversible inhibition of the enzyme responsible for the breakdown of GABA. 
The benefits with Kigabeq are its ability to reduce the frequency of seizures in patients with infantile 
spasms when administered as monotherapy and in patients with resistant partial epilepsy when added to 
an existing regimen of antiepileptic medicines. The most common side effects are visual field defects, 
psychiatric disorders such as agitation, excitation, aggression, nervousness, depression and paranoid 
reaction, and nervous system disorders such as marked sedation, stupor and confusion. 
Kigabeq is a hybrid medicine2 of Sabril (500 mg, granules for oral solution), which has been authorised in 
the EU since 22 March 1993. Kigabeq contains the same active substance as Sabril, but is available in a 
lower strength of 100 mg (allowing a 50 mg dosing increment) in addition to the 500 mg strength. It can 
be administered through gastric tubes in patients who cannot swallow in addition to the regular oral 
administration route. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Kigabeq, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Sabril 500 mg. 
The full indication is:  
“Kigabeq is indicated in infants and children from 1 month to less than 7 years of age for: 
 
Treatment in monotherapy of infantile spasms (West's syndrome). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
 
Treatment in combination with other antiepileptic medicinal products for patients with resistant partial 
epilepsy (focal onset seizures) with or without secondary generalisation, that is where all other 
appropriate medicinal product combinations have proved inadequate or have not been tolerated.” 
It is proposed that Kigabeq be prescribed by physicians specialized in epileptology, neurology or 
paediatric neurology. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Kigabeq  
EMA/CHMP/395605/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
