21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/648485/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Mounjaro 
tirzepatide 
On 21 July 2022,  the Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Mounjaro, 
intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.   
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Eli  Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Mounjaro will be available as a solution for injection in a pre-filled pen. The active substance of Mounjaro 
is tirzepatide, a dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide 1 
(GLP-1) receptor agonist (ATC code: A10B). By means of its action on these receptors, tirzepatide 
improves glycaemic control through several different mechanisms. 
The benefit of Mounjaro is its ability to improve glycaemic control in patients  with  type 2 diabetes. The 
most common side effects are hypoglycaemia when used in combination with  sulphonylurea or insulin, 
and gastrointestinal side effects such as nausea and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is: 
Mounjaro is indicated for the treatment  of adults  with insufficiently  controlled type 2 diabetes 
mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise  
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or 
• 
contraindications 
• 
in addition to  other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes.  
For study results with  respect to combinations, effects on glycaemic control and the populations 
studied, see sections 4.4,  4.5 and 5.1. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granted by the  European Commission. 
Mounjaro  
EMA/CHMP/648485/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
