19 May 2022 
EMA/253572/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kinpeygo 
budesonide 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Kinpeygo3, intended for the treatment of primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Calliditas Therapeutics AB. 
Kinpeygo will be available as a 4 mg modified-release hard capsule. The active substance of Kinpeygo is 
budesonide, a corticosteroid (ATC code: A07EA06) which mainly acts locally in the intestines to reduce 
the inflammation associated with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy. 
The benefit of Kinpeygo is its ability to effectively reduce proteinuria. The most common side effects are 
increased blood pressure, swelling of arms or legs (such as ankle swelling), cushingoid features (such as 
rounded face, increased body hair, weight gain and acne), and indigestion. 
Kinpeygo is a hybrid medicine4 of Entocort which has been authorised in the EU since 2 April 1992. 
Kinpeygo contains the same active substance as Entocort but has a different formulation and a different 
indication. 
The full indication is: 
Kinpeygo is indicated for the treatment of primary immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy (IgAN) 
in adults at risk of rapid disease progression with a urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥1.5 
g/gram.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
4 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Kinpeygo  
EMA/253572/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
