19 November 2015  
EMA/CHMP/730109/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Spectrila 
asparaginase 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Spectrila, 
intended for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Spectrila was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 26 January 2005. The applicant for this medicinal product is medac Gesellschaft fuer 
klinische Spezialpraeparate mbH. 
Spectrila will be available as a 10,000 U powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Spectrila is asparaginase, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX02). The mechanism of 
action of asparaginase is the enzymatic degradation of the amino acid asparagine. Depletion of 
asparagine in blood serum results in apoptosis of cells highly dependent on asparagine, especially 
leukaemic blasts. 
Consequent to the complete asparagine depletion in serum, the benefit with Spectrila administered as 
part of combination chemotherapy is to increase the proportion of patients with complete remission at the 
end of the treatment period. 
The most common side effects are hypersensitivity reactions, hyperglycaemia, hypoalbuminaemia, 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, oedema, fatigue, and change in laboratory parameters 
(e.g. transaminases, bilirubin, blood lipids and coagulation parameters). 
The full indication is: "Spectrila is indicated as a component of antineoplastic combination therapy for the 
treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in paediatric patients from birth to 18 years and adult 
patients". It is proposed that Spectrila be prescribed and administered by physicians and healthcare 
personnel experienced in the use of antineoplastic products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
