17 November 2011 
EMA/900110/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Rebif 
interferon beta-1a 
On 17 November 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Rebif. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Serono 
Europe Ltd. They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Rebif is indicated for the treatment of patients with a single demyelinating event with an active 
inflammatory process, if alternative diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at 
high risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis (see section 5.1)." 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Rebif will be as follows2: 
“Rebif is indicated for the treatment of  
  patients with a single demyelinating event with an active inflammatory process, if 
alternative diagnoses have been excluded, and if they are determined to be at high 
risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis (see section 5.1) 
  patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis. In clinical trials, this was characterised by two or 
more acute exacerbations in the previous two years (see section 5.1). 
Efficacy has not been demonstrated in patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis without 
ongoing relapse activity (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
