20 July 2023
EMA/CHMP/322106/2023
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Lyfnua
gefapixant
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lyfnua, 
intended for the treatment of refractory or unexplained chronic cough in adult patients. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Lyfnua will be available as a 45 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Lyfnua is gefapixant, a 
cough suppressant (ATC code: R05DB29). Gefapixant is a non-narcotic, peripherally active, selective 
antagonist of P2X3 receptors, which are ATP-gated ion channels found on sensory C fibres of the vagus 
nerve in the airways. Blockade of ATP signalling through P2X3 receptors reduces excessive sensory-nerve 
activation and excessive cough induced by extracellular ATP.
The key benefit of the treatment with Lyfnua is the reduction in the frequency of coughs per 24 hours, as 
shown in two phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel assignment intervention studies 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of gefapixant in adults with refractory chronic cough or unexplained 
chronic cough. The most common side effects are a distortion, loss or reduction of the sense of taste.
The full indication is:
Lyfnua is indicated in adults for the treatment of refractory or unexplained chronic cough.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
