18 October 2018 
EMA/CHMP/666423/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dengvaxia 
Dengue tetravalent vaccine (live, attenuated) 
On 18 October 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Dengvaxia, 
intended for prophylaxis against dengue disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi Pasteur. 
Dengvaxia will be available as a powder and solvent to be made into a suspension for injection. The active 
substance of Dengvaxia is made of chimeric yellow fever-based live attenuated viruses, which contain 2 
surface dengue proteins from each of serotypes 1 to 4 of dengue virus. Following administration, the viruses 
replicate locally and induce neutralizing antibodies and cell-mediated immune responses against the four 
dengue virus serotypes. 
The benefits with Dengvaxia are its ability to protect against symptomatic dengue infection, including severe 
forms of the disease, in individuals who have had dengue infection before. The most common side effects are 
headache, injection site pain, malaise, myalgia, asthenia and fever. 
The full indication is: "Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue virus 
serotypes 1, 2, 3 and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with prior dengue virus infection and living in 
endemic areas. The use of Dengvaxia should be in accordance with official recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
