On 26 February 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
Sustiva 
Efavirenz 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
product Sustiva. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Pharma EEIG. They may request a re-examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the 
European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
26 February 2015 
EMA/CHMP/104007/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
with CD4 counts < 50 cells/mm3, or after failure of protease inhibitor (PI) containing regimens. 
Although cross-resistance of efavirenz with PIs has not been documented, there are at present 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
For a summary of clinical and pharmacodynamic information, see section 5.1. 
infected adults, adolescents and children 3 months of age and older and weighing at least 3.5 kg. 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Sustiva will be as follows: 
insufficient data on the efficacy of subsequent use of PI based combination therapy after failure of 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
"SUSTIVA is indicated in antiviral combination treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) 
SUSTIVA has not been adequately studied in patients with advanced HIV disease, namely in patients 
SUSTIVA is indicated in antiviral combination treatment of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
infected adults, adolescents and children 3 months of age and older and weighing at least 3.5 kg." 
regimens containing SUSTIVA. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
