15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/527975/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Libmeldy 
autologous CD34+ cell enriched population that contains hematopoietic stem 
and progenitor cells transduced ex vivo using a lentiviral vector encoding the 
human arylsulfatase A gene 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Libmeldy2, a 
gene therapy for the treatment of children with the ‘late infantile’ (LI) or ‘early juvenile’ (EJ) forms of 
metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). As Libmeldy is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP 
positive opinion is based on an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Orchard Therapeutics (Netherlands) B.V. 
The active substance of Libmeldy consists of the child’s own stem cells which have been modified to 
contain working copies of the ARSA gene.  
People with MLD have a fault in this gene, which results in lack of ARSA enzyme. This leads to a build-up 
of substances called sulfatides in the brain and nervous system. 
Libmeldy is given by injection (drip) into a vein only once. When the child is given Libmeldy, the cells 
contained in the medicine will make the ARSA enzyme, which will break down the sulfatides in the nerve 
cells and other cells of the child’s body. This is expected to slow down the progression of the disease and 
improve the child’s quality of life.  
The benefits of Libmeldy in pre-symptomatic LI and EJ MLD patients are its ability to maintain both motor 
and cognitive function within a normal range. In patients with the early juvenile form of MLD, who already 
have symptoms, a slower decline in motor function is seen while cognitive function is maintained. 
Some side effects seen are related to the conditioning medicine used to prepare the child for treatment 
with Libmeldy. The most common side effects attributed to Libmeldy is the development of antibodies 
against ARSA. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
The full indication is: 
“Libmeldy is indicated for the treatment of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) characterized by biallelic 
mutations in the arysulfatase A (ARSA) gene leading to a reduction of the ARSA enzymatic activity: 
• 
• 
in children with late infantile or early juvenile forms, without clinical manifestations of the 
disease, 
in children with the early juvenile form, with early clinical manifestations of the disease, who still 
have the ability to walk independently and before the onset of cognitive decline.” 
Libmeldy must be administered in a qualified treatment centre with experience in haematopoietic stem 
cell transplantation. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Libmeldy  
EMA/CHMP/527975/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
