16 February 2012 
EMA/CHMP/102366/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pixuvri 
pixantrone dimaleate  
On 16 February 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pixuvri, 29mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of patients 
with multiply relapsed aggressive Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) as monotherapy.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is CTI Life Sciences Ltd.  They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Pixuvri is pixantrone, an anthracyclines and related substances  
(L01DB11) belonging to a class of drugs which antineoplastic activity is linked to inhibition of 
topoisomerase II and DNA intercalation. 
The benefit with Pixuvri is its ability to improve the rate of complete responses and unconfirmed 
complete responses (CR/CRu), compared to the comparator group in adult patients with multiply 
relapsed or refractory aggressive Non-Hodgkin B-cell Lymphomas.  
The most common side effects are neutropenia, leucopoenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, asthenia, 
pyrexia, cough, decreased ejection fraction and nausea. Haematological side effects are also the most 
common associated with grade 3 or 4 toxicity. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pixuvri will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Pixuvri is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients 
with multiply relapsed or refractory aggressive Non-Hodgkin B-cell Lymphomas. The benefit of 
pixantrone treatment has not been established in patients when used as fifth line or greater 
chemotherapy in patients who are refractory to last therapy."  
It is proposed that Pixuvri be prescribed by physicians familiar with the use of antineoplastic agents 
and have the facilities for regular monitoring of clinical, haematological, and biochemical parameters 
during and after treatment  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Pixuvri and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Pixuvri 
EMA/CHMP/102366/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
