25 January 2018  
EMA/CHMP/48689/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Hizentra 
human normal immunoglobulin 
On 25 January 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Hizentra. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is CSL Behring GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Immunomodulatory therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years): 
•  Hizentra is indicated for the treatment of patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating 
polyneuropathy (CIDP) as maintenance therapy after stabilization with IVIg.” 
For information, the full indications for Hizentra will be as follows2: 
“Replacement therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
• 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes with impaired antibody production (see section 4.4). 
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent bacterial infections in patients with chronic lymphocytic 
leukaemia (CLL), in whom prophylactic antibiotics have failed or are contra-indicated. 
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections in multiple myeloma (MM) patients. 
•  Hypogammaglobulinaemia in patients, pre- and post-allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (HSCT). 
Immunomodulatory therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years): 
•  Hizentra is indicated for the treatment of patients with chronic inflammatory 
demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) as maintenance therapy after stabilization with 
IVIg.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Hizentra  
EMA/CHMP/48689/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
