24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/348641/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Abecma 
idecabtagene vicleucel 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Abecma,2 
intended for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. As Abecma is an advanced 
therapy medicinal product, the CHMP’s positive opinion is based on an assessment by the Committee for 
Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Celgene Europe BV. 
Abecma will be available as a 260-500 x 10⁶ CAR-positive viable T cells dispersion for infusion. The active 
substance of Abecma is idecabtagene vicleucel, a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-positive T cell therapy 
targeting B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), which is expressed on the surface of normal and malignant 
plasma cells. Antigen-specific activation of Abecma results in CAR-positive T cell proliferation, cytokine 
secretion and subsequent cytolytic killing of BCMA-expressing cells. 
The benefits of Abecma are its ability to provide durable responses in patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma. The most common side effects are neutropenia, cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS), anaemia, thrombocytopenia, unspecified infections, leucopenia, fatigue, diarrhoea, hypokalaemia, 
hypophosphataemia, nausea, lymphopenia.  
The full indication is: 
Abecma is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple 
myeloma who have received at least three prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory 
agent, a proteasome inhibitor and an anti-CD38 antibody and have demonstrated disease 
progression on the last therapy. 
Abecma should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies 
including multiple myeloma.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Abecma  
EMA/CHMP/348641/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
