27 June 2019 
EMA/CHMP/287624/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Giapreza 
angiotensin II 
On 27 June 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Giapreza, intended for 
the treatment of refractory hypotension in adults with septic or other distributive shock. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is La Jolla Pharmaceutical II B.V. 
Giapreza will be available as a 2.5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance in 
Giapreza is angiotensin II acetate, which raises blood pressure by vasoconstriction (ATC code: C01CX009). 
The benefit with Giapreza is its ability to increase blood pressure in patients with septic and distributive 
shock. The most common side effects are thromboembolic events, transient hypertension, tachycardia and 
peripheral ischaemia.  
The full indication is: “Giapreza is indicated for the treatment of refractory hypotension in adults with septic 
or other distributive shock who remain hypotensive despite adequate volume restitution and application of 
catecholamines and other available vasopressor therapies (see section 5.1)”. It is proposed that Giapreza be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of shock and used in an acute and hospital setting. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
