27 January 2022 
EMA/CHMP/687405/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord 
vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On 27 January 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord, intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord will be available as 50 mg/850 mg and 50 mg/1000 mg film-
coated tablets. The active substances of Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord are vildagliptin and 
metformin hydrochloride, two oral blood glucose-lowering drugs used in combination in the treatment of 
diabetes (ATC code: A10BD08). Vildagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, improves 
glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes by increasing the levels of active incretin hormones, 
leading to enhanced glucose-dependent insulin secretion and reduced glucagon release. Metformin 
hydrochloride, a member of the biguanide class, works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and 
reducing its absorption in the gut.  
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is a generic of Eucreas, which has been authorised in the EU 
since 14 November 2007. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Vildagliptin/Metformin 
hydrochloride Accord, and its bioequivalence to the reference product Eucreas. A question and answer 
document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve 
glycaemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
• 
• 
in patients who are inadequately controlled with metformin hydrochloride alone. 
in patients who are already being treated with the combination of vildagliptin and metformin   
hydrochloride, as separate tablets. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
in combination with other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes, including insulin, 
when these do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for available 
data on different combinations). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Vildagliptin/Metformin hydrochloride Accord  
EMA/CHMP/687405/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
