25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/433406/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Ilaris 
canakinumab 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Ilaris. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
They may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of active Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) in patients 
aged 2 years and older who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and systemic corticosteroids. Ilaris can be given as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Ilaris will be as follows2: 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 2 years and older with body weight of 7.5 kg or above, including: 
−  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
−  Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
−  Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of active Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) in 
patients aged 2 years and older who have responded inadequately to previous therapy with 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and systemic corticosteroids. Ilaris can be 
given as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate. 
Gouty arthritis 
Ilaris is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of adult patients with frequent gouty arthritis attacks 
(at least 3 attacks in the previous 12 months) in whom non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) and colchicine are contraindicated, are not tolerated, or do not provide an adequate 
response, and in whom repeated courses of corticosteroids are not appropriate (see section 5.1). 
Ilaris 
EMA/CHMP/433406/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
