25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/447957/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Giotrif 
afatinib 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Giotrif 20 
mg, 30 mg, 40 mg and 50 mg film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of EGFR TKI-naïve adult 
patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating EGFR 
mutation(s). The applicant for this medicinal product is Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Giotrif is afatinib, an antineoplastic agent, protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE13), 
that covalently binds to and irreversibly blocks signalling from all homo- and heterodimers formed by 
the ErbB family members EGFR (ErbB1), HER2 (ErbB2), ErbB3 and ErbB4. 
The benefits with Giotrif have been shown in a phase III, randomised, open-label study of afatinib 
versus chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with 
activating EGFR mutation(s). In this study efficacy has been shown in terms of an increased 
progression free survival in patients receiving afatinib compared to chemotherapy. The most common 
side effects are diarrhea, stomatitis, rash, dermatitis acneiform, pruritus, dry skin, paronychia, 
decreased apetite and epistaxis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Giotrif will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: " GIOTRIF as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of Epidermal 
Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) TKI-naïve adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating EGFR mutation(s) (see section 5.1).” 
It is proposed that Giotrif be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Giotrif and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Giotrif 
EMA/CHMP/447957/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
