EMA/CHMP/289459/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kymriah 
tisagenlecleucel 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kymriah, 
intended for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(DLBCL). As Kymriah is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP positive opinion is based on an 
assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies.  
Kymriah, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 29 April 2014, was reviewed under 
EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis 
Europharm Limited. 
Kymriah will be available as a dispersion for infusion. The active substance of Kymriah is tisagenlecleucel, 
an autologous, immunocellular cancer therapy which involves reprogramming a patient’s own T cells to 
identify and eliminate CD19-expressing cells. This is achieved by addition of a transgene encoding a 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR).  
The benefits of Kymriah are its ability to achieve remission with a significant duration in patients with ALL 
and to achieve an objective response with a significant duration in patients with DLBCL. The most 
common side effects in patients with ALL are cytokine release syndrome, infections, 
hypogammaglobulinaemia, pyrexia and decreased appetite. The most common side effects in patients 
with DLBCL are cytokine release syndrome, infections, pyrexia, diarrhoea, nausea, hypotension and 
fatigue. 
The full indication is:  
“Kymriah is indicated for the treatment of: 
Paediatric and young adult patients up to 25 years of age with B-cell acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (ALL) that is refractory, in relapse post-transplant or in second or later relapse. 
Adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or 
more lines of systemic therapy.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
It is proposed that Kymriah be administered in a qualified treatment centre. Therapy should be started 
and supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies 
and trained for administration and management of patients treated with Kymriah. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Kymriah  
EMA/CHMP/289459/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
