27 January 2022 
EMA/CHMP/45656/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Breyanzi 
lisocabtagene maraleucel  
On 27 January 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Breyanzi2, 
intended for the treatment of adult with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 
primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and follicular lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B), after at 
least two previous lines of treatments. As Breyanzi is an advanced therapy medicinal product, the CHMP 
positive opinion is based on an assessment by the Committee for Advanced Therapies. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
Breyanzi will be available as 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL (CD4+ cells) / 1.1-70 × 106 cells/mL (CD8+ cells) 
dispersion for infusion.  
Breyanzi contains the following two active substances, which are covered by the single INN lisocabtagene 
maraleucel: 
•  CD19-directed genetically modified autologous cell-based product consisting of purified CD8+ T 
cells (CD8+ cells) 
•  CD19-directed genetically modified autologous cell-based product consisting of purified CD4+ T 
cells (CD4+ cells) 
Breyanzi is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous cellular immunotherapy, where the chimeric 
antigen receptor (CAR) binds to CD19 expressed on the cell surface of tumour and normal B cells. This 
induces activation and proliferation of CAR T cells, release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and cytotoxic 
killing of target cells. 
The benefits of Breyanzi are its ability to provide high and durable responses in patients with relapsed or 
refractory DLBCL, PMBCL and FL3B. The most common side effects are neutropenia, anaemia, cytokine 
release syndrome, fatigue, and thrombocytopenia. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The full indication is: 
Breyanzi is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL) and follicular 
lymphoma grade 3B (FL3B), after two or more lines of systemic therapy. 
Breyanzi should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of haematological malignancies 
and trained for administration and management of patients treated with Breyanzi. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Breyanzi  
EMA/CHMP/45656/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
