11 November 2021 
EMA/625434/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Uplizna 
inebilizumab 
On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Uplizna2, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) who 
are anti-aquaporin 4 immunoglobulin G (AQP4-IgG) seropositive  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Viela Bio. 
Uplizna will be available as a 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Uplizna 
is inebilizumab, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA). Inebilizumab binds to the B cell-specific 
surface antigen CD19, resulting in a profound depletion of B cells, which are believed to play a central 
role in the pathogenesis of NMOSD.  
The benefit of Uplizna is a reduced risk of attacks in AQP4-IgG seropositive NMOSD. The most common 
side effects are urinary tract infections, joint pain and reduction of immunoglobulins levels.  
The full indication is: 
Uplizna is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with neuromyelitis optica 
spectrum disorders (NMOSD) who are anti-aquaporin 4 immunoglobulin G (AQP4-IgG) 
seropositive see section 5.1). 
Uplizna should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of NMOSD and with access to 
appropriate medical support to manage potential severe reactions such as serious infusion-related 
reactions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
