13 December 2018 
EMA/CHMP/862388/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tobramycin PARI 
tobramycin 
On 13 December 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tobramycin 
PARI, intended for the management of chronic pulmonary infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 
patients aged 6 years and older with cystic fibrosis. The applicant for this medicinal product is PARI Pharma 
GmbH. 
Tobramycin PARI will be available as a 170 mg nebuliser solution. The active substance of Tobramycin PARI 
is tobramycin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic (ATC code: J01GB01) which primarily affects bacterial protein 
synthesis resulting in rapid concentration-dependent bacterial cell death. 
Tobramycin PARI represents an alternative treatment option for cystic fibrosis patients with chronic P. 
aeruginosa lung infections.   
It is a hybrid medicine2 of TOBI Nebuliser solution which has been authorised in the EU since 10 December 
1999. Tobramycin PARI contains the same active substance as TOBI Nebuliser solution, but has a different 
strength and is used with a different nebuliser device, allowing it to be inhaled over a shorter period.  The 
most common side effects are cough and dysphonia.  
The full indication is:  
"Tobramycin PARI is indicated for the management of chronic pulmonary infection due to Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in patients aged 6 years and older with cystic fibrosis (CF).  
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
