17 November 2011 
EMA/CHMP/817228/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Caprelsa 
vandetanib 
On 17 November 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Caprelsa, 100 mg, 300 mg, film-coated tablets intended for the treatment of aggressive and 
symptomatic medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or 
metastatic disease.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Caprelsa is vandetanib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE) with activity against 
the rearranged during transfection (RET) proto-oncogene, the vascular endothelial growth factor 
receptor (VEGFR) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).  
The benefit with Caprelsa is its ability to improve progression-free survival (PFS) as compared to 
placebo in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic MTC. 
The most common side effects are nasopharyngitis, bronchitis, upper respiratory tract infections, 
urinary tract infections, decreased appetite, hypocalcaemia, insomnia, depression, headache, 
paresthesia, dysaesthesia, dizziness, blurred vision, corneal structural change (including corneal 
deposits and corneal opacity), prolongation of QT interval, hypertension, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, 
nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, photosensitivity reactions, rash and other skin reactions (including acne, 
dry skin, dermatitis, pruritis), nail disorders, proteinuria, nephrolithiasis, asthenia, fatigue, pain and 
oedema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Caprelsa will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Caprelsa is indicated for the treatment of aggressive and symptomatic 
medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. 
For patients in whom rearranged during transfection (RET) mutation is not known or is negative, a 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
possible lower benefit should be taken into account before individual treatment decision (see important 
information in sections 4.4 and 5.1). It is proposed that Caprelsa be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in treatment of medullary thyroid cancer, the use of anticancer therapies and the 
assessment of electrocardiogram. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Caprelsa and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional. 
Caprelsa 
EMA/CHMP/817228/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
