24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/397789/2010 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sycrest 
asenapine  
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sycrest, 
5 mg, 10 mg, sublingual tablet intended for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes 
associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. The applicant for this medicinal product is N.V. Organon.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Sycrest is asenapine (as maleate), a psycholeptic, antipsychotic (N05AH05). 
Based on its receptor pharmacology, the efficacy of asenapine is mediated through a combination of 
antagonist activity at D2 and 5-HT2A receptors. Actions at other receptors e.g., 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-
HT2C, 5-HT6, 5-HT7, D3, and α2-adrenergic receptors, may also contribute to the clinical effects of 
asenapine. 
The benefits with Sycrest are its ability to reduce manic symptoms in bipolar I disorder (moderate to 
severe manic episodes) and to maintain its effect during the episode for up to 12 weeks. The addition 
of Sycrest as adjunctive therapy has also shown superior efficacy over lithium or valproate 
monotherapy in reducing manic symptoms in bipolar I disorder and this effect was maintained for up to 
12 weeks. 
The most common side effects (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are anxiety and somnolence. Other 
common side effects (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are weight gain, increased appetite, 
dystonia (slow or sustained muscle contractions), akathisia (restlessness),  dyskinesia (involuntary 
muscle contractions), parkinsonism (slow movements, tremor), sedation, dizziness, dysgeusia (change 
in taste), hypoaesthesia oral (numb feeling of the tongue or in the mouth), alanine aminotransferase 
increased (increase in the level of liver proteins), muscle rigidity (muscle tightness) and fatigue. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sycrest will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is: treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with bipolar I 
disorder in adults. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Sycrest and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Sycrest  
EMA/CHMP/397789/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
