23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/371721/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Revolade 
eltrombopag / eltrombopag olamine 
On 23 July 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Revolade. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows2: 
"Revolade is indicated in adult patients with acquired severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) who were either 
refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation." 
For information, the full indications for Revolade will be as follows: 
“Revolade is indicated for adult chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) 
splenectomised patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). 
Revolade may be considered as second line treatment for adult non-splenectomised patients where 
surgery is contraindicated. 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection for the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia, where the degree of thrombocytopenia is the main factor preventing the initiation or 
limiting the ability to maintain optimal interferon-based therapy (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Revolade is indicated in adult patients with acquired severe aplastic anaemia (SAA) who were 
either refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and are unsuitable 
for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
