9 November 2017 
EMA/CHMP/737340/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Prevymis 
letermovir 
On 9 November 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Prevymis, 
intended for the prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and disease in adult CMV-seropositive 
recipients [R+] of an allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Prevymis was designated as 
an orphan medicinal product on 15 April 2011. The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Limited. 
Prevymis will be available as a concentrate for solution for infusion and as film-coated tablets (240 mg 
and 480 mg). The active substance of Prevymis is letermovir, an antiviral (ATC code: J05AX18) that acts 
on the CMV DNA terminase and inhibits viral replication. 
The benefits with Prevymis are its ability to prevent reactivation of CMV infection (CMV DNAemia) and 
CMV end-organ disease in a population of HSCT patients at risk of CMV reactivation. The most common 
side effects are nausea, diarrhoea and vomiting. 
The full indication is: "Prevymis is indicated for prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation and 
disease in adult CMV-seropositive recipients [R+] of an allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
(HSCT)."  
It is proposed that Prevymis be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of patients who 
have had an allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplant.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
