19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/373819/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Temozolomide Sun 
temozolomide 
On 19 May 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Temozolomide Sun 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 180 mg, 250 mg hard capsules intended for 
oncology treatment. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Europe 
B.V. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Temozolomide Sun is temozolomide an antineoplastic and immunomodulating 
agent (ATC code: L01AX03). Temozolomide (TMZ) is a triazene, which undergoes rapid chemical 
conversion at physiologic pH to the active monomethyl triazenoimidazole carboxamide (MTIC). The 
cytotoxicity of MTIC is thought to be due primarily to alkylation at the O6 position of guanine with 
additional alkylation also occurring at the N7 position. Cytotoxic lesions that develop subsequently are 
thought to involve aberrant repair of the methyl adduct.  
Temozolomide Sun is a generic of Temodal, which has been authorised in the EU since 26 January 
1999. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Temozolomide Sun and its bioequivalence 
with Temodal. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
The approved indication is:  
• 
• 
“For the treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme concomitantly 
with radiotherapy (RT) and subsequently as monotherapy treatment. 
For the treatment of children from the age of three years, adolescents and adult patients with 
malignant glioma, such as glioblastoma multiforme or anaplastic astrocytoma, showing recurrence 
or progression after standard therapy”. 
Medicinal product subject to special and restricted medical prescription. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of data submitted, considers there to be a favourable benefit to risk balance 
for Temozolomide Sun and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Temozolomide Sun  
EMA/373819/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
