19 September 2013 
EMA/489804/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
ABILIFY MAINTENA 
aripiprazole 
On  19  September  2013,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
ABILIFY  MAINTENA,  300  mg  and  400  mg,  powder  and  solvent  for  prolonged-release  suspension  for 
injection intended for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients stabilised with oral 
aripiprazole. The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Otsuka Pharmaceutical  Europe  Ltd.  They  may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in 
writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The  active  substance  of  ABILIFY  MAINTENA  is  aripiprazole  (as  monohydrate),  a  psycholeptic 
antipsychotic,  already  authorised  in  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  as  oral  and  rapid  intramuscular 
forms.  The  pharmacological  properties  of  aripiprazole  are  mediated  through  a  combination  of  partial 
agonism  at  dopamine  D2  and  serotonin  5-HT1A  receptors  and  antagonism  at  serotonin  5-HT2A 
receptors.  
The  benefits  with  ABILIFY  MAINTENA  are  its  ability  to  reduce  the  proportion  of  stabilised  patients 
experiencing relapse in long term use and its properties to act as long acting agent, allowing a monthly 
administration instead of a daily oral intake of aripiprazole. Patients are previously stabilised with oral 
aripiprazole. 
The most common side effects are weight gain, akathisia (restlessness), insomnia (difficulty in 
sleeping) and injection site pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for ABILIFY MAINTENA will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The  approved  indication  is:  "maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adult  patients  stabilised  with 
oral aripiprazole.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  there  to  be  a 
favourable  benefit-to-risk  balance  for  ABILIFY  MAINTENA  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of 
the marketing authorisation.  
ABILIFY MAINTENA 
EMA/489804/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
