28 January 2021     
EMA/CHMP/646053/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vazkepa 
icosapent ethyl 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vazkepa, 
intended to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in patients at high cardiovascular risk. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Amarin Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Vazkepa will be available as 998 mg soft capsules. The active substance of Vazkepa is icosapent ethyl, a 
lipid modifying agent (ATC code: C10AX06). The mechanisms of action are likely multi-factorial, possibly 
including improved lipoprotein profile with reduction of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, anti-inflammatory 
and antioxidant effects, reduction of macrophage accumulation, improved endothelial function, increased 
fibrous cap thickness/stability, and antiplatelet effects. 
The benefits with Vazkepa are its ability to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events (such as 
cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, coronary revascularisation, or hospitalisation for 
unstable angina) compared to placebo. 
The most common side effects are bleeding, peripheral oedema, atrial fibrillation, constipation, 
musculoskeletal pain, gout and rash.  
The full indication is: 
Vazkepa is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in adult statin-treated patients at 
high cardiovascular risk with elevated triglycerides (≥150 mg/dL) and 
•
•
established cardiovascular disease, or
diabetes, and at least one other cardiovascular risk factor.
For study details including cardiovascular risk factors and results with respect to effects on 
cardiovascular events see section 5.1. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Vazkepa  
EMA/CHMP/646053/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
