22 September 2011 
EMA/CHMP/508585/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
Levetiracetam 
On 22 September 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group, 100mg/ml, oral solution intended for the treatment of of epilepsy. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Levetiracetam Actavis Group is levetiracetam, a  nervous system - other 
antiepileptics –(ATC code: N03AX14). Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative chemically unrelated to 
existing antiepileptic active substances. The exact mechanism by which levetiracetam acts to treat 
epilepsy is unknown, however, the drug binds to a synaptic vesicle protein, SV2A which is believed to 
impede nerve conduction across synapses. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group is a generic of Keppra, which has been authorised in the EU since 
29 September 2000. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Levetiracetam Actavis 
Group oral solution. Levetiracetam Actavis Group is an aqueous solution administered orally and 
contains an active substance in the same concentration as an the reference product Keppra, therefore, 
a bioequivalence study versus the reference product Keppra was not required as per the Guideline on 
the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1. A question and answer document 
on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Levetiracetam Actavis Group will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Levetiracetam Actavis Group is indicated as monotherapy in the treatment 
of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients from 16 years of age with 
newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group is indicated as adjunctive therapy 
• in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy. 
• in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
• in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 
12 years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy.”. It is proposed that Levetiracetam Actavis Group 
is prescribed subject to medical prescription. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Levetiracetam Actavis Group and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Levetiracetam Actavis Group  
EMA/CHMP/508585/2011  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
