16 December 2021  
EMA/702822/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Keytruda 
pembrolizumab 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Keytruda. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication as follows:2 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Keytruda, in combination with axitinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced renal 
cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
Keytruda, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with renal 
cell carcinoma at increased risk of recurrence following nephrectomy, or following 
nephrectomy and resection of metastatic lesions (for selection criteria, please see 
section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Keytruda will be as follows: 
Melanoma 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) 
melanoma in adults. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with Stage III 
melanoma and lymph node involvement who have undergone complete resection (see section 
5.1). 
Non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung 
carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% tumour proportion score (TPS) 
with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations. 
Keytruda, in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, is indicated for the 
first-line treatment of metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults whose 
tumours have no EGFR or ALK positive mutations. 
Keytruda, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel, is indicated for 
the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults. 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 1% TPS and who 
have received at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive 
tumour mutations should also have received targeted therapy before receiving Keytruda. 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 
3 years and older with relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma who have failed 
autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) or following at least two prior therapies when ASCT is not 
a treatment option. 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who have received prior platinum-containing chemotherapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy and 
whose tumours express PD-L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 10 (see section 5.1). 
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) 
Keytruda, as monotherapy or in combination with platinum and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic or unresectable recurrent 
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 1 
(see section 5.1). 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% TPS and 
progressing on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Keytruda, in combination with axitinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced renal 
cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
Keytruda, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with renal cell 
carcinoma at increased risk of recurrence following nephrectomy or following nephrectomy and 
resection of metastatic lesions (for selection criteria, please see section 5.1). 
Colorectal cancer (CRC) 
Keytruda  
EMA/702822/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Keytruda as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic microsatellite 
instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) colorectal cancer in adults. 
Oesophageal carcinoma 
Keytruda, in combination with platinum and fluoropyrimidine based chemotherapy, is indicated for 
the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic carcinoma of the 
oesophagus or HER-2 negative gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma in adults whose 
tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 10 (see section 5.1). 
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) 
Keytruda, in combination with chemotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of locally recurrent 
unresectable or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 
with a CPS ≥ 10 and who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease (see 
section 5.1). 
Endometrial carcinoma (EC)  
Keytruda, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the treatment of advanced or recurrent 
endometrial carcinoma in adults who have disease progression on or following prior treatment 
with a platinum-containing therapy in any setting and who are not candidates for curative surgery 
or radiation. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Keytruda  
EMA/702822/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
