15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/550956/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Opdivo. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. For information, the full 
indications for Opdivo will be as follows2: 
Melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with melanoma with 
involvement of lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection (see 
section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose 
tumours have no sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text as bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after 
prior therapy in adults. 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and 
treatment with brentuximab vedotin.  
Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell 
cancer of the head and neck in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy. 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
after prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/550956/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
