21 October 2010 
EMA/643636/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Iasibon 
ibandronic acid   
On 21 October 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Iasibon 
50mg film-coated tablets intended for prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and 
bone metastases and Iasibon 1 mg/ml, 2 mg/2ml, 6 mg/6ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
intended for prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases and 
treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia with or without metastases. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Pharmathen S.A. 
The active substance of Iasibon is ibandronic acid, a third generation bisphosphonate (ATC Code: M05B 
A 06) which inhibits bone resorption.  
Iasibon is a generic of Bondronat which has been authorised in the EU since 25 June 1996. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Iasibon, and its bioequivalence with Bondronat. A 
question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication for 50mg film-coated tablets is:  “Prevention of skeletal events (pathological 
fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and 
bone metastases”. 
The approved indication for concentrate for solution for infusion is: “Prevention of skeletal events 
(pathological fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast 
cancer and bone metastases. Treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia with or without 
metastases”. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Iasibon and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Iasibon  
EMA/643636/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
