24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/414325/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Imbruvica 
ibrutinib 
On 24 July 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Imbruvica 
140 mg hard capsule intended for the treatment of relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) 
and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). 
Imbruvica was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 26 April 2012 for treatment of MCL and 
on 12 March 2013 for treatment of CLL. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Janssen–Cilag International NV. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Imbruvica is ibrutinib, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XE27) which 
inhibits Bruton’s tyrosine kinase, a signalling molecule of the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) and 
cytokine receptor pathways. 
The benefits in CLL of Imbruvica are in terms of improved progression free survival (PFS) as shown in 
a randomised controlled trial against ofatumumab. The benefits in MCL of Imbruvica are in terms of 
overall response rate and duration of response as shown in a single-arm study. The most common side 
effects are: pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, dizziness, headache, haemorrhage, bruising, petechiae, diarrhoea, vomiting, stomatitis, 
nausea, constipation, rash, arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, pyrexia and peripheral oedema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Imbruvica will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
" Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell 
lymphoma (MCL). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) 
who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line in the presence of 17p deletion or 
TP53 mutation in patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy.” 
It is proposed that Imbruvica be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Imbruvica and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Imbruvica 
EMA/CHMP/414325/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
