13 October 2016 
EMA/CHMP/643776/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cystadrops 
mercaptamine 
On 13 October 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cystadrops, 
intended for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal deposits in patients with cystinosis. Cystadrops was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 7 November 2008. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Orphan Europe S.A.R.L. 
Cystadrops will be available as a 3.8 mg/g eye-drop solution. The active substance of Cystadrops is 
mercaptamine, a cystine-depleting agent (ATC code: S01XA21) which works by converting cystine to 
cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfides. 
The benefit of Cystadrops is its ability to reduce corneal cystine crystal accumulation. The most common side 
effects are eye pain, ocular hyperaemia, eye pruritus, increased lacrimation, blurred vision and eye 
irritation. 
The full indication is: "Cystadrops is indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal deposits in adults 
and children from 2 years of age with cystinosis." It is proposed that Cystadrops be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the management of cystinosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
