17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/471384/2019 Corr. 1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion2 (initial authorisation) 
Quofenix 
delafloxacin 
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Quofenix, 
intended for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults when it is 
considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents commonly recommended for the initial treatment 
of these infections. The applicant for this medicinal product is A. Menarini Industrie Farmaceutiche Riunite 
s.r.l. 
Quofenix will be available as 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion and as a 450 mg tablet. 
The active substance of Quofenix is delafloxacin, an antibacterial for systemic use (ATC code: J01MA23) 
which inhibits bacterial topoisomerase IV and DNA gyrase (topoisomerase II), which are enzymes required 
for bacterial DNA replication, transcription, repair, and recombination. 
Delafloxacin given intravenously has been shown to be as effective as vancomycin plus aztreonam given 
intravenously, and delafloxacin given intravenously followed by delafloxacin given by mouth has been shown 
to be as effective as vancomycin plus aztreonam given intravenously. The most common side effects are 
fungal  infections,  headache,  diarrhoea,  nausea,  vomiting,  increase  in  transaminase  levels,  itching,  and 
injection/infusion site reactions. 
The full indication is:  
“Quofenix is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections 
(ABSSSI) in adults when it is considered inappropriate to use other antibacterial agents that are 
commonly recommended for the initial treatment of these infections (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 This document was updated on 21 October 2019 to correct information on the comparison of delafloxacin with vancomycin plus 
aztreonam 
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
 
