25 June 2020  
EMA/339453/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Xolair 
omalizumab 
On 25 June 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Xolair. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) 
Xolair is indicated as an add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids (INC) for the treatment of 
adults (18 years and above) with severe CRSwNP for whom therapy with INC does not provide 
adequate disease control. 
For information, the full indications for Xolair will be as follows: 
Allergic asthma 
Xolair is indicated in adults, adolescents and children (6 to <12 years of age). 
Xolair treatment should only be considered for patients with convincing IgE (immunoglobulin E) 
mediated asthma (see section 4.2). 
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy to improve asthma control in patients with severe persistent 
allergic asthma who have a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and 
who have reduced lung function (FEV1 <80%) as well as frequent daytime symptoms or night-
time awakenings and who have had multiple documented severe asthma exacerbations despite 
daily high-dose inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-agonist. 
Children (6 to <12 years of age) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy to improve asthma control in patients with severe persistent 
allergic asthma who have a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
frequent daytime symptoms or night-time awakenings and who have had multiple documented 
severe asthma exacerbations despite daily high-dose inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting 
inhaled beta2-agonist. 
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) 
Xolair is indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of chronic spontaneous urticaria in adult 
and adolescent (12 years and above) patients with inadequate response to H1 antihistamine 
treatment. 
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) 
Xolair is indicated as an add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids (INC) for the treatment of 
adults (18 years and above) with severe CRSwNP for whom therapy with INC does not provide 
adequate disease control. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Xolair  
EMA/339453/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
