20 July 2017 
EMA/CHMP/426201/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bavencio 
avelumab 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bavencio, 
intended for the treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma. Bavencio was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 14 December 2015. The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Serono Europe 
Limited. 
Bavencio will be available as a 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Bavencio is avelumab, an antineoplastic agents (ATC code: not yet assigned) that is directed against 
programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1). Avelumab binds to PD-L1 and blocks the interaction between PD-L1 
and the programmed death 1 (PD-1) and B7.1 receptors.  
The benefits with Bavencio are its ability to show tumour responses in patients whether they have or not 
been treated with chemotherapy. In many patients, the response is of prolonged duration. 
The most common side effects are fatigue, nausea, diarrhoea, decreased appetite, constipation, infusion 
related reaction, weight decreased and vomiting. Serious adverse reactions are immune-related adverse 
reactions and infusion-related reactions. 
The full indication is: "Bavencio is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with 
metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC)." Treatment should be initiated and supervised by a physician 
experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
