30 May 2013 
EMA/306855/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pomalidomide Celgene 
pomalidomide 
On 30 May 2013 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pomalidomide Celgene intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Pomalidomide Celgene was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 October 2009. The applicant for this medicinal product 
is Celgene Europe Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Pomalidomide Celgene is pomalidomide, an immunomodulating agent (ATC 
Code: L04AX06). Pomalidomide has direct anti-myeloma tumouricidal activity, immunomodulatory 
activities and inhibits stromal cell support for multiple myeloma tumour cell growth 
The benefits with Pomalidomide Celgene, in combination with low-dose dexamethasone, are its ability 
to prolong survival. A teratogenic effect of Pomalidomide Celgene in humans is expected. The most 
common side effects are anaemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue and pyrexia.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pomalidomide Celgene will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Pomalidomide Celgene in combination with dexamethasone is indicated in 
the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma who have received at 
least two prior treatment regimens, including both lenalidomide and bortezomib, and have 
demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.” 
It is proposed that Pomalidomide Celgene treatment be initiated and monitored under the supervision 
of physicians experienced in the management of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Pomalidomide Celgene and therefore recommends the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
Pomalidomide Celgene 
EMA/306855/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
