23 March 2017  
EMA/152667/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Trumenba 
Meningococcal group B vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed) 
On 23 March 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Trumenba, 
intended for prophylaxis against invasive meningococcal disease caused by meningococcal serogroup B 
bacteria. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited.  
Trumenba will be available as a suspension for injection. The active substances of Trumenba are two 
recombinant lipidated factor H binding protein (fHbp) variants from subfamily A and B, which are found 
on the surface of Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B (ATC code: J07AH09). Immunisation with Trumenba 
is intended to stimulate the production of bactericidal antibodies that recognize fHbp expressed by 
meningococci. 
The benefits with Trumenba are its ability to induce protective serum bactericidal antibody responses to a 
number of meningococcal serogroup B test strains expressing fHbp variants that are representative of 
meningococcal serogroup B strains causing invasive disease. The most common side effects are injection 
site local reactions (pain, redness and swelling), headache, fatigue, chills, diarrhoea, muscle and joint 
pain, and nausea. 
The full indication is: "Trumenba is indicated for active immunisation of individuals 10 years and older to 
prevent invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. See section 5.1 for 
information on the immune response against specific serogroup B strains. The use of this vaccine should 
be in accordance with official recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
