31 July 2013 
EMA/422789/2013   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ovaleap 
follitropin alfa  
On 31 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ovaleap, 
600 IU/ml, solution for injection intended for the treatment of fertility disorders. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, 
provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. Ovaleap is a biosimilar medicinal product, i.e. a medicinal product that has been 
demonstrated to be similar in quality, safety and efficacy to the reference medicinal product GONAL-f. 
The active substance of Ovaleap is follitropin alfa, recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone 
[r-hFSH](G03GA05). Follitropin alfa is essential for normal female gamete growth and maturation, and 
induction of normal gonadal steroid production. Deficient endogenous production of FSH is a known 
cause of infertility and administration of exogenous gonadotropins is used to treat this condition.  
The benefits with Ovaleap are its ability for the treatment of fertility disorders. The most common side 
effects are headache, ovarian cysts and local injection site reactions. Mild or moderate Ovarian 
Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) has been commonly reported and should be considered as an 
intrinsic risk of the stimulation procedure. Thromboembolism may occur very rarely, usually associated 
with severe OHSS. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ovaleap will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
In adult women 
•  Anovulation (including polycystic ovarian syndrome) in women who have been unresponsive to 
treatment with clomifene citrate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
•  Stimulation of multifollicular development in women undergoing superovulation for assisted 
reproductive technologies (ART) such as in vitro fertilisation (IVF), gamete intra-fallopian transfer 
and zygote intra fallopian transfer. 
•  Ovaleap in association with a luteinising hormone (LH) preparation is recommended for the 
stimulation of follicular development in women with severe LH and FSH deficiency. In clinical trials 
these patients were defined by an endogenous serum LH level < 1.2 IU/L. 
In adult men 
•  Ovaleap is indicated for the stimulation of spermatogenesis in men who have congenital or 
acquired hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with concomitant human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) 
therapy. 
It is proposed that Ovaleap be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of fertility 
disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Ovaleap and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Ovaleap 
EMA/422789/2013   
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
