16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/679312/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ontilyv 
opicapone 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ontilyv, 
intended for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bial Portela & Companhia S.A. 
Ontilyv will be available as hard capsules (25 mg and 50 mg). The active substance of Ontilyv is 
opicapone, a peripheral, selective and reversible COMT inhibitor (ATC code: N04BX04) that increases L-
DOPA plasma levels when used concomitantly with L-DOPA/DOPA-decarboxylase inhibitors (DDCIs). 
The benefit of Ontilyv is its ability to decrease off-time (when patients are severely restricted by their 
symptoms) and increase on-time without troublesome dyskinesia. The most common side effects are 
dyskinesia, constipation, insomnia, dry mouth and dizziness. 
The application for Ontilyv was an informed consent application. In an informed consent application, 
reference is made to an authorised medicine where the marketing authorisation holder of the reference 
medicine has given consent to the use of their dossier in the application procedure. The reference product 
for Ontilyv is Ongentys. 
The full indication is: 
Ontilyv is indicated as adjunctive therapy to preparations of levodopa/ DOPA decarboxylase inhibitors 
(DDCI) in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations who cannot be 
stabilised on those combinations 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
