28 June 2018 
EMA/CHMP/239619/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vyxeos  
daunorubicin / cytarabine 
On 28 June 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vyxeos, intended for the 
treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Vyxeos was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 11 
January 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited. 
Vyxeos is a liposomal formulation of a fixed combination of daunorubicin and cytarabine, antineoplastic 
agents that inhibit topoisomerase II activity and also cause DNA damage (ATC code: L01XY01). The product 
will be available as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. After reconstitution the solution will 
contain 2.2 mg/ml of daunorubicin and 5 mg/ml of cytarabine.  
The benefits with Vyxeos are its ability to increase survival compared with a standard combination of 
cytarabine and daunorubicin in patients with high-risk AML. The most common side effects are 
hypersensitivity including rash, febrile neutropenia, oedema, diarrhoea/colitis, mucositis, fatigue, 
musculoskeletal pain, abdominal pain, decreased appetite, cough, headache, chills, arrhythmia, pyrexia, 
sleep disorders and hypotension. 
The full indication is: “Vyxeos is indicated for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed, therapy-related 
acute myeloid leukaemia (t-AML) or AML with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MRC).” 
It is proposed that Vyxeos treatment should be initiated and monitored under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the use of chemotherapeutic medicinal products.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
