19 May 2022 
EMA/CHMP/260147/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Cosentyx 
secukinumab 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cosentyx. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA) 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of 
active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients 6 years and older whose disease has responded 
inadequately to, or who cannot tolerate, conventional therapy (see section 5.1). 
Juvenile psoriatic arthritis (JPsA) 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of 
active juvenile psoriatic arthritis in patients 6 years and older whose disease has responded 
inadequately to, or who cannot tolerate, conventional therapy (see section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Cosentyx will be as follows:2 
Adult plaque psoriasis 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are 
candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children and 
adolescents from the age of 6 years who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the treatment of 
active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients when the response to previous disease modifying anti 
rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate (see section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS, radiographic axial spondyloarthritis) 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of active ankylosing spondylitis in adults who have 
responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA) 
Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with 
objective signs of inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence in adults who have responded inadequately to non 
steroidal anti inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA) 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the 
treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients 6 years and older whose 
disease has responded inadequately to, or who cannot tolerate, conventional therapy 
(see section 5.1). 
Juvenile psoriatic arthritis (JPsA) 
Cosentyx, alone or in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the 
treatment of active juvenile psoriatic arthritis in patients 6 years and older whose 
disease has responded inadequately to, or who cannot tolerate, conventional therapy 
(see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Cosentyx  
EMA/CHMP/260147/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
