30 March 2023 
EMA/CHMP/141137/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Qaialdo 
spironolactone 
On 30 March 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Qaialdo, 
intended for the treatment of refractory oedema associated with excessive aldosterone excretion. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited. 
Qaialdo will be available as a 10 mg/ml oral suspension. The active substance of Qaialdo is 
spironolactone, an aldosterone antagonist (ATC code: C03DA01). It competitively inhibits 
mineralocorticoid receptors in the kidneys to promote excretion of water and sodium and retention of 
potassium.  
Qaialdo is a hybrid medicine2 of Aldactone which has been authorised in the EU since 13-03-1975. 
Qaialdo contains the same active substance as Aldactone. Compared to the reference medicinal product, 
Qaialdo has a different pharmaceutical form (oral suspension) and strength.  
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Qaialdo, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Aldactone. 
Because Qaialdo is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as the same. 
The most common side effects are hyperkalaemia, particularly in patients with renal impairment or in 
those receiving ACE-inhibitors or angiotensin II antagonists concomitantly, gynaecomastia and breast 
pain. 
The full indication is: 
In the management of refractory oedema associated with congestive cardiac failure; hepatic 
cirrhosis with ascites and oedema, malignant ascites, nephrotic syndrome, diagnosis and 
treatment of primary aldosteronism, essential hypertension. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neonates, children and adolescents should only be treated under guidance of a paediatric 
specialist. There is limited paediatric data available (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Qaialdo  
EMA/CHMP/141137/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
