22 June 2023  
EMA/266855/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Soliris 
eculizumab 
On 22 June 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Soliris. The 
marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Alexion Europe SAS. 
The  CHMP  adopted  an  extension  to  an  existing  indication  of  generalised  myasthenia  gravis  for  use  in 
paediatric patients. For information, the full indications for Soliris will be as follows:2  
Soliris is indicated in adults and children for the treatment of: 
−  Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). 
Evidence of clinical benefit is demonstrated in patients with haemolysis with clinical symptom(s) indicative 
of high disease activity, regardless of transfusion history (see section 5.1). 
−  Atypical haemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) (see section 5.1). 
−  Refractory  generalized  myasthenia  gravis  (gMG)  in  patients  aged  6  years  and  above  who  are 
anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-positive (see section 5.1). 
Soliris is indicated in adults for the treatment of: 
−  Refractory  generalized  myasthenia  gravis  (gMG)  in  patients  who  are  anti-acetylcholine  receptor 
(AChR) antibody-positive (see section 5.1).  
−  Neuromyelitis  optica  spectrum  disorder  (NMOSD)  in  patients  who  are  anti-aquaporin-4  (AQP4) 
antibody-positive with a relapsing course of the disease (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
