17 March 2011 
EMA/CHMP/87152/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Eliquis 
apixaban 
On 17 March 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Eliquis 
2.5mg film coated tablet intended for the prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult 
patients who have undergone elective hip or knee replacement surgery. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Eliquis is apixaban, a reversible direct and selective inhibitor of factor Xa, 
which inhibits free and clot-bound factor Xa and prothrombinase activity, leading to indirect inhibition 
of platelet aggregation induced by thrombin.  
The benefits with Eliquis are its ability to exert anticoagulant properties and demonstrate 
antithrombotic activity in the prevention of venous thromboembolism. The most common side effects 
are anaemia, haemorrhage, contusion and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Eliquis will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “the prevention of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in adult patients 
who have undergone elective hip or knee replacement surgery”.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Eliquis and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
