25 April 2013 
EMA/CHMP/231975/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xtandi 
enzalutamide 
On 25 April 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xtandi, 40 
mg, soft capsule, intended for the treatment of adult men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate 
cancer whose disease has progressed on or after docetaxel therapy. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Astellas Pharma Europe B.V.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Xtandi is enzalutamide, a potent androgen receptor signalling inhibitor (ATC 
Code not yet assigned) that blocks several steps in the androgen receptor signalling pathway. 
The benefits with Xtandi are its ability to improve the survival of patients and to delay the progression 
of disease. The most common side effects are hot flush and headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xtandi will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: "Xtandi is indicated for the treatment of adult men with metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer whose disease has progressed on or after docetaxel therapy." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Xtandi and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
