European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/285157/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
SAMSCA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tolvaptan 
On 28 May 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), having considered 
new information, adopted a positive opinion,∗∗∗ recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for 
the medicinal product Samsca, 15 mg and 30 mg tablets intended for the treatment of hyponatraemia. 
The Applicant for this medicinal product is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. 
The active substance of Samsca is tolvaptan, a vasopressin antagonist medicinal product (C03XA01) 
which  blocks  the  binding  of  arginine  vasopressin  at  the  V2  receptors  of  the  distal  portions  of  the 
nephron, thereby inducing free water clearance (aquaresis) without depletion of electrolytes. 
The benefits with Samsca are the improvement of serum sodium balance for the duration of therapy 
and  the  prevention  of  progressive  lowering  of  sodium.  This  correction  of  hyponatraemia  offers  a 
clinically relevant effect which has been shown in patients with hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome 
of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The most common side effects are nausea 
and thirst. Teratogenicity seen in animal studies is addressed by a contraindication in pregnancy.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Samsca, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of adult patients with hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome 
of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)”. Due to the need for a dose titration phase 
with close monitoring of serum sodium and volume status, treatment with Samsca should be initiated 
in hospital.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Samsca and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
∗∗ ∗   Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
