30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/665088/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Trepulmix 
treprostinil sodium 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Trepulmix2, 
intended for the treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). The applicant for 
this medicinal product is SciPharm Sarl. 
Trepulmix will be available as 1 mg/ml, 2.5 mg/ml, 5 mg/ml and 10 mg/ml solutions for infusion. The active 
substance of Trepulmix is treprostinil sodium, a prostacyclin analogue which has a direct vasodilatory effect 
on the pulmonary and systemic arterial circulation and inhibits platelet aggregation. 
The benefits with Trepulmix is its ability to provide significant improvement in exercise capacity in patients 
with CTEPH. The most common side effects are headache, diarrhoea, nausea, jaw pain and infusion site 
pain. 
Trepulmix is a hybrid medicine3 of Remodulin which has been authorised in the EU since 10 August 2005 and 
contains the same active substance. Remodulin is licensed for the treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension. 
The full indication is: 
“Treatment of adult patients with WHO Functional Class (FC) III or IV and: 
•
•
inoperable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), or
persistent or recurrent CTEPH after surgical treatment
to improve exercise capacity.” 
Treatment with Trepulmix should be started and monitored only by clinicians experienced in the treatment 
of pulmonary hypertension. Treatment should be started under close medical supervision in a medical 
facility where intensive care can be provided. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
3 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Trepulmix  
EMA/CHMP/665088/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
