16 September 2021  
EMA/CHMP/513781/2021 Corr.1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion2 (post authorisation) 
Steglatro 
ertugliflozin  
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Steglatro. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication as follows:3  
Steglatro is indicated for the treatment of adults aged 18 years and older with insufficiently 
controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control: 
• 
• 
as monotherapy in patients for whom the use when metformin is considered inappropriate due to 
intolerance or contraindications. 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. 
(For study results with respect to combinations of therapies, and effects on glycaemic control, 
cardiovascular events and the population studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1.) 
For information, the full indication is as follows: 
Steglatro is indicated for the treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus as 
an adjunct to diet and exercise: 
• 
as monotherapy when metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or 
contraindications. 
in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. 
• 
For study results with respect to combinations of therapies, effects on glycaemic control, cardiovascular 
events, and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5, and 5.1. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
1 30 September 2021 
2 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
3 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Steglatro  
EMA/CHMP/513781/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
