14 November 2019 
EMA/CHMP/536390/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tavlesse 
fostamatinib 
On 14 November 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tavlesse, 
intended for the treatment of primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). This is an acquired 
immune-mediated disorder characterised by destruction of platelets and impaired platelet production.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Rigel Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
Tavlesse will be available as 100-mg and 150-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tavlesse is 
fostamatinib (ATC code: B02BX09). Fostamatinib blocks spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK), and thereby inhibits 
signal transduction of B-cell receptors and Fc-activating receptors, which play a key role in 
antibody-mediated cellular responses. Fostamatinib  reduces antibody-mediated destruction of platelets. 
The benefits of Tavlesse are its ability to increase and maintain platelet count and reduce bleeding risk. The 
most common side effects are dizziness, diarrhoea, nausea, frequent bowel movement, hypertension  and 
blood pressure abnormalities and liver function test abnormalities. 
The full indication is: “Tavlesse is indicated for the treatment of chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in 
adult patients who are refractory to other treatments”. Fostamatinib treatment should be initiated and 
remain under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in the treatment of haematological diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
