24 June 2021 
EMA/CHMP/341057/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Evrenzo 
roxadustat 
On 24 June 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Evrenzo, 
intended for the treatment of anaemia symptoms in patients with chronic kidney disease. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 
Evrenzo will be available as 20 mg, 50 mg, 70 mg, 100 mg and 150 mg film-coated tablets. The active 
substance of Evrenzo is roxadustat, an orally administered antianaemic preparation (ATC code: 
B03XA05). Roxadustat is a first-in-class inhibitor of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) prolyl hydroxylase that 
corrects anaemia by activating a response that occurs naturally when oxygen levels in the blood are low, 
promoting erythropoiesis and increasing the blood's oxygen-carrying capacity. 
The benefits of Evrenzo are its ability to correct haemoglobin levels and reduce the need for rescue 
therapy in both non-dialysis-dependent (NDD) and dialysis-dependent (DD) patients. The effects of 
Evrenzo on haemoglobin levels and the need for rescue therapy are comparable to those seen with 
erythropoiesis-stimulating agents.  
The most common side effects are hypertension, vascular access thrombosis, diarrhoea, peripheral 
oedema, hyperkalaemia and nausea.  
The full indication is: 
Evrenzo is indicated for treatment of adult patients with symptomatic anaemia associated 
with chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Evrenzo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of anaemia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
