21 April 2017  
EMA/181654/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Spinraza 
nusinersen 
On  21  April  2017,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Spinraza, 
intended for the treatment of  5q  spinal muscular atrophy  (SMA).  Spinraza,  which  was designated as an 
orphan  medicinal  product  on  2  April  2012,  was  reviewed  under  EMA’s  accelerated  assessment 
programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Biogen Idec Ltd. 
Spinraza will be available as a 2.4 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Spinraza is 
nusinersen, an antisense oligonucleotide that can make the SMN2 gene produce adequate levels of full-
length SMN protein, thus improving neuronal survival. 
The benefits with Spinraza are its ability to allow achievement of motor milestones and improvement in 
muscle function which is not observed during the natural course of the disease. The most common side 
effects are related to its administration via lumbar puncture. 
The full indication is: "Spinraza is indicated for the treatment of 5q spinal muscular atrophy." It is 
proposed that Spinraza should only be started by a physician with experience in the management of 
spinal muscular atrophy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
