19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/471074/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
NovoEight 
turoctocog alfa 
On 19 September 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
NovoEight 250, 500, 100, 1500, 2000, or 3000 IU, powder and solvent for solution for injection, 
intended for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (congenital 
factor VIII deficiency).  The applicant for this medicinal product is Novonordisk. They may request a 
re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of NovoEight is turoctocog alfa, human recombinant factor VIII that enables the 
temporary substitution of the endogenous coagulation factor VIII in haemophilia A patients. The 
benefits with NovoEight are its ability to prevent and treat the bleeds in previously treated patients 
with severe haemophilia A. The most common side effects are increase in hepatic enzymes and 
injection site reaction. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for NovoEight will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency)". It is proposed that NovoEight be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of Haemophilia A. It is proposed that treatment should be initiated under 
the supervision of a doctor experienced in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for NovoEight and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
