20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/437314/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lutathera 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lutathera, a 
radiopharmaceutical medicinal product indicated for the treatment of well differentiated 
gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (GEP-NETs). Lutathera was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 31 January 2008. The applicant for this medicinal product is Advanced Accelerator 
Applications. 
Lutathera will be available as a 370 MBq/ml solution for infusion. The active substance of Lutathera is 
lutetium (177Lu) oxodotreotide, a radiolabelled peptide that has high affinity for subtype 2 somatostatin 
receptors (sst2) (ATC code: V10XX04). It targets malignant cells which overexpress sst2 receptors and 
has a limited effect on neighbouring noncancerous cells. 
The benefits with Lutathera are its ability to improve progression-free survival compared with octreotide 
LAR, a somatostatin receptor agonist, in patients with well differentiated GEP-NET tumours.  
The most common side effects are nausea, vomiting, haematological toxicity (thrombocytopenia, 
lymphopenia, anaemia, pancytopenia), fatigue and decreased appetite. 
The full indication is: "Lutathera is indicated for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, progressive, 
well differentiated (G1 and G2), somatostatin receptor positive gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine 
tumours (GEP NETs) in adults." Lutathera should be administered only by persons authorised to handle 
radiopharmaceuticals in designated clinical settings and after evaluation of the patient by a qualified 
physician. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
