20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/328223/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Litfulo 
ritlecitinib 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Litfulo, 
intended for the treatment of alopecia areata (AA). The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer 
Europe MA EEIG. 
Litfulo will be available as a 50 mg hard capsule. The active substance of Litfulo is ritlecitinib, a Janus-
associated kinase (JAK) inhibitor (ATC code: L04AF08). Ritlecitinib irreversibly and selectively inhibits  
JAK 3 and the tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) family by blocking γ-common 
cytokine signalling and reducing cytolytic activity of NK and CD8+ cells. Although the complete 
pathophysiology of AA is still not understood, JAK3 and TEC family mediated signalling pathways are both 
thought to be involved. 
The benefit of Litfulo is its ability to regrow lost hair compared with placebo, as shown in a phase 2b/3 
randomised, double-blind, dose-ranging study in patients with alopecia areata. The most common side 
effects are diarrhoea, acne, upper respiratory tract infections, urticaria, rash, folliculitis and dizziness. 
The full indication is: 
Litfulo is indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents  
12 years of age and older (see section 5.1). 
Litfulo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of alopecia areata. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
