23 July 2020 
EMA/383350/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Blenrep 
belantamab mafodotin 
On 23 July 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Blenrep3, intended for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Blenrep was reviewed 
under EMA’s accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited. 
Blenrep will be available as a 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Blenrep is belantamab mafodotin, a humanised IgG1κ monoclonal antibody against the B-
cell maturation antigen (BCMA) conjugated with a cytotoxic agent, maleimidocaproyl monomethyl 
auristatin F (mcMMAF) (ATC code: L01XC39). The antibody-drug conjugate binds to BCMA on myeloma 
cell surfaces causing cell cycle arrest and inducing antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. 
The benefit with Blenrep is its ability to provide durable responses in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma. The most significant frequently reported side effects (in ≥30% of patients) are 
keratopathy and thrombocytopenia. 
The full indication is: 
“Blenrep is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients, 
who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least one 
proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, and 
who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.” 
Blenrep should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Blenrep  
EMA/383350/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
