European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/374221/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ALENDRONATE SODIUM AND COLECALCIFEROL, MSD 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): alendronic acid / colecalciferol   
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Alendronate 
Sodium and Colecalciferol, MSD, 70 mg / 2800 IU, 70 mg / 5600 IU, tablet intended for treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  ALENDRONATE  Alendronate  Sodium  and  Colecalciferol,  MSD  is  a  fixed 
dose  combination  of  two  active  substances,  alendronic  acid  (in  the  form  of  alendronate  sodium 
trihydrate) and colecalciferol (vitamin D3), which is suitable for a once weekly regimen. Alendronate 
belongs  to  a  group  of  non-hormonal  medicines  called  bisphosphonates,  which  prevents  the  loss  of 
bone that occurs in women after they have been through the menopause, and helps to rebuild bone. It 
reduces  the  risk  of  spine  and  hip  fractures.  Vitamin  D  is  an  essential  nutrient,  required  for  calcium 
absorption and healthy bones. 
The benefits with Alendronate Sodium and Colecalciferol, MSD relate to the reduction of the risk of 
spine and hip fractures. The most common side effects relate to the digestive tract (including 
abdominal pain, pain upon swallowing, inflammation or ulceration of the gullet) as well as bone, 
muscle and/or joint pain 
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  ALENDRONATE  Alendronate  Sodium  and  Colecalciferol,  MSD,  as 
for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients at risk of vitamin D 
insufficiency.  Alendronate  Sodium  and  Colecalciferol,  MSD  reduces  the  risk  of  vertebral  and  hip 
fractures” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data of the reference product FOSAVANCE, 
considers  that  there  is  a  favourable  benefit-risk  balance  for  Alendronate  Sodium  and  Colecalciferol, 
MSD and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
