EMA/CHMP/631749/2021 Rev.2 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
11 November 2021 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nexviadyme 
avalglucosidase alfa 
On 23 July 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nexviadyme2, 
intended for the treatment of glycogen storage disease type II (Pompe disease). The Committee also 
concluded at that time that the active substance, avalglucosidase alfa, which is a modified version of the 
enzyme alglucosidase alfa, could not be considered a new active substance. 
The applicant subsequently requested a re-examination with respect to the new active substance status 
of avalglucosidase alfa. After considering the grounds for the request, the CHMP re-examined the initial 
opinion and confirmed, in its conclusion on 11 November 2021, that avalglucosidase alfa could not be 
considered to be a new active substance because there was not enough difference between 
avalglucosidase alfa and alglucosidase alfa as regards efficacy and safety. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe BV. 
Nexviadyme will be available as a 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Nexviadyme is avalglucosidase alfa, a recombinant human acid α-glucosidase (ATC code: 
not yet assigned), which is an enzyme replacement therapy that provides an exogenous source of acid α-
glucosidase. 
The benefit of Nexviadyme is its ability to improve the respiratory function (also called force vital 
capacity) of Pompe disease patients. The most common side effects are hypersensitivity (including 
anaphylaxis), infusion associated reactions (pruritus, rash, headache, urticaria, fatigue, nausea and 
chills). 
The full indication is: 
Nexviadyme (avalglucosidase alfa) is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy for the 
treatment of patients with Pompe disease (acid α-glucosidase deficiency). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nexviadyme should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of patients with Pompe 
disease or other inherited metabolic or neuromuscular diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Nexviadyme  
EMA/CHMP/631749/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
