22 May 2014 
EMA/CHMP/277292/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Envarsus 
tacrolimus 
On 22 May 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Envarsus, 
0.75 mg, 1 mg and 4 mg, prolonged-release tablets intended for the prophylaxis of transplant rejection 
in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients and the treatment of allograft rejection resistant to 
treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal products in adult patients. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Envarsus is tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant (L04AD02). 
The benefits with Envarsus are its ability to inhibit the formation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, which are 
mainly responsible for graft rejection. Tacrolimus suppresses T-cell activation and T-helper-cell 
dependent B-cell proliferation, as well as the formation of lymphokines (such as interleukins-2, -3, and 
γ-interferon) and the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor. The results from the study in stable and 
de novo kidney transplant patients showed that there was no clinical difference between the Envarsus 
group and the tacrolimus immediate-release one in the conversion and de novo settings. Results of the 
studies with Envarsus including both stable liver transplant recipients (‘conversion’ setting), and de 
novo liver transplant recipients also showed no significant clinical difference between the Envarsus 
group and the tacrolimus immediate-release formulation one. 
The most common side effects are Diarrhoea, UTI, blood creatinine increased and nausea are the most 
common AEs reported for patients in Phase 2/ 3 clinical kidney transplant studies. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Envarsus will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: "Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft 
recipients. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients". 
It is proposed that Envarsus be prescribed by physicians experienced in immunosuppressive therapy 
and the management of transplant patients. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Envarsus and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Envarsus 
EMA/CHMP/277292/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
