20 February 2014 
EMA/65875/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
indacaterol / glycopyrronium bromide 
On 20 February 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ulunar 
Breezhaler, 85 mcg/43 mcg, inhalation powder, hard capsule intended for maintenance bronchodilator 
treatment to relieve symptoms in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Ulunar Breezhaler (R03AL04) is a fixed-dose combination of the active substances indacaterol, a beta-
2-adrenergic agonist, and glycopyrronium bromide, an anticholinergic. Indacaterol activates the 
relaxation of the muscles of the airways, and glycopyrronium blocks the bronchoconstrictor action of 
acetylcholine on airway smooth muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. 
The benefits with Ulunar Breezhaler are its ability to relieve symptoms in adult patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The most common side effects are the beta-adrenergic and 
anticholinergic symptoms related to the individual components of the combination. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ulunar Breezhaler will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Ulunar Breezhaler is indicated as a maintenance bronchodilator treatment 
to relieve symptoms in adult patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)."  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted for the reference product Ultibro 
Breezhaler, considers there to be a favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Ulunar Breezhaler and 
therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Ulunar Breezhaler 
EMA/65875/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
