20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/287639/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Keytruda 
pembrolizumab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Keytruda. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Keytruda, in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine and platinum-containing 
chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma in adults 
whose tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 1. 
For information, the full indications for Keytruda will be as follows:2 
Melanoma 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults and adolescents aged 
12 years and older with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults and adolescents 
aged 12 years and older with Stage IIB, IIC or III melanoma and who have undergone complete 
resection (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell 
lung carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% tumour proportion score 
(TPS) with no EGFR or ALK positive tumour mutations. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, is indicated for the 
first-line treatment of metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults whose 
tumours have no EGFR or ALK positive mutations. 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with carboplatin and either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel, is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults. 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 1% TPS and who 
have received at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. Patients with EGFR or ALK positive 
tumour mutations should also have received targeted therapy before receiving KEYTRUDA. 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 
3 years and older with relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma who have failed 
autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) or following at least two prior therapies when ASCT is 
not a treatment option. 
Urothelial carcinoma 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who have received prior platinum-containing chemotherapy (see 
section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
urothelial carcinoma in adults who are not eligible for cisplatin-containing chemotherapy and 
whose tumours express PD-L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 10 (see section 5.1). 
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) 
KEYTRUDA, as monotherapy or in combination with platinum and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic or unresectable recurrent 
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 1 
(see section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic head and 
neck squamous cell carcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a ≥ 50% TPS and 
progressing on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with axitinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the first-line treatment of advanced 
renal cell carcinoma in adults (see section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with renal cell 
carcinoma at increased risk of recurrence following nephrectomy, or following nephrectomy and 
resection of metastatic lesions (for selection criteria, please see section 5.1). 
Microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) cancers 
Colorectal cancer (CRC) 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for adults with MSI-H or dMMR colorectal cancer in the 
following settings: 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/287639/2023 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
• 
• 
first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer; 
treatment of unresectable or metastatic colorectal cancer after previous 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination therapy. 
Non-colorectal cancers 
KEYTRUDA as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of the following MSI-H or dMMR 
tumours in adults with: 
• 
advanced or recurrent endometrial carcinoma, who have disease progression on or following 
prior treatment with a platinum-containing therapy in any setting and who are not 
candidates for curative surgery or radiation; 
•  unresectable or metastatic gastric, small intestine, or biliary cancer, who have disease 
progression on or following at least one prior therapy. 
Oesophageal carcinoma 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with platinum and fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy, is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of locally advanced unresectable or metastatic carcinoma of the 
oesophagus or HER-2 negative gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, in adults whose 
tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 10 (see section 5.1). 
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment, and then continued as 
monotherapy as adjuvant treatment after surgery, is indicated for the treatment of adults with 
locally advanced, or early-stage triple-negative breast cancer at high risk of recurrence (see 
section 5.1). 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with chemotherapy, is indicated for the treatment of locally recurrent 
unresectable or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 
with a CPS ≥ 10 and who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease (see 
section 5.1). 
Endometrial carcinoma (EC)  
KEYTRUDA, in combination with lenvatinib, is indicated for the treatment of advanced or 
recurrent endometrial carcinoma in adults who have disease progression on or following prior 
treatment with a platinum-containing therapy in any setting and who are not candidates for 
curative surgery or radiation. 
Cervical cancer 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab, is indicated for the 
treatment of persistent, recurrent, or metastatic cervical cancer in adults whose tumours 
express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 1. 
Gastric or gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma 
KEYTRUDA, in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine and platinum-
containing chemotherapy, is indicated for the first-line treatment of locally advanced 
unresectable or metastatic HER2-positive gastric or gastro-oesophageal junction 
adenocarcinoma in adults whose tumours express PD-L1 with a CPS ≥ 1. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/287639/2023 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Keytruda  
EMA/CHMP/287639/2023 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
