10 December 2020 
EMA/CHMP/646289/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tukysa 
tucatinib 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tukysa, 
intended for the treatment of HER2-positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Seagen B.V. 
Tukysa will be available as 50 and 150 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tukysa is 
tucatinib, an antineoplastic protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EH03) which inhibits HER2 kinase. This 
leads to inhibition of downstream cell signalling and cell proliferation and induces death in HER2-driven 
tumour cells.  
The benefits with Tukysa are its ability to increase progression free survival and overall survival including 
in patients with metastases. The most common side effects are diarrhoea and increased liver enzymes 
(ALT and AST). 
The full indication is: 
TUKYSA is indicated in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine for the treatment of adult 
patients with HER2-positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have received at 
least 2 prior anti-HER2 treatment regimens.  
Tukysa should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of anti–cancer medicinal 
products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
