23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/585580/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pepaxti 
melphalan flufenamide 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pepaxti2, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The applicant for this medicinal product is Oncopeptides 
AB. 
Pepaxti will be available as a 20 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Pepaxti is melphalan flufenamide, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01AA10). Melphalan 
flufenamide is a lipophilic derivative of melphalan designed to enhance cell penetration. Once inside the 
cells, melphalan inhibits DNA and RNA synthesis, causing tumour cell death. 
The benefit of Pepaxti is its ability to bring about a response in patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma. The most common side effects are thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and anaemia. 
The full indication is: 
Pepaxti is indicated, in combination with dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult patients 
with multiple myeloma who have received at least three prior lines of therapies, whose disease 
is refractory to at least one proteasome inhibitor, one immunomodulatory agent, and one anti-
CD38 monoclonal antibody, and who have demonstrated disease progression on or after the last 
therapy. For patients with a prior autologous stem cell transplantation, the time to progression 
should be at least 3 years from transplantation. 
Pepaxti should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
