European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/618601/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISTAION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PREZISTA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): darunavir 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  an  extension  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Prezista. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Janssen-
Cilag International NV. 
The  extension  adopted  by  the  CHMP  is  to  add  a  new  strength  (400 mg  film-coated  tablets)  to  the 
existing product range. 
This new strength will be used in a new indication. 
The  new  indication  adopted  by  the  CHMP  is:  PREZISTA  400 mg,  co-administered  with  low-dose 
ritonavir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in antiretroviral therapy (ART) naïve adults. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  extension  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
* 
Summaries  of  positive  opinion  are  published  without  prejudice  to  the  Commission  Decision,  which  will 
normally be issued within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption 
of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they 
notify the EMEA in writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
