22 February 2018  
EMA/84249/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Kineret 
anakinra 
On 22 February 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Kineret. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ). 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
"Kineret is indicated in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a 
body weight of 10 kg or above for the treatment of Still’s disease, including Systemic Juvenile 
Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD), with active systemic features of 
moderate to high disease activity, or in patients with continued disease activity after treatment 
with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or glucocorticoids. 
Kineret can be given as monotherapy or in combination with other anti-inflammatory drugs and 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs)." 
For information, the full indications for Kineret will be as follows2: 
"Kineret is indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of Rheumatoid 
Arthritis (RA) in combination with methotrexate, with an inadequate response to methotrexate 
alone. 
Kineret is indicated in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a 
body weight of 10 kg or above for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes 
(CAPS), including: 
• 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA) 
•  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) 
• 
Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Kineret is indicated in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and 
older with a body weight of 10 kg or above for the treatment of Still’s disease, including 
Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD), 
with active systemic features of moderate to high disease activity, or in patients with 
continued disease activity after treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) or glucocorticoids. 
Kineret can be given as monotherapy or in combination with other anti-inflammatory 
drugs and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs)." 
In addition the CHMP adopted the removal of the following contraindication: 
"Kineret must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/minute) (see 
section 4.2)."  
For information, the full contraindications for Kineret will be as follows3: 
"Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or to 
E. coli derived proteins. 
Kineret must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/minute) (see 
section 4.2). 
Kineret treatment must not be initiated in patients with neutropenia (ANC <1.5 x 109/l) (see 
section 4.4)." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
3 Removed text as strikethrough 
Kineret  
EMA/84249/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
                                                
