23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/392428/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Praluent 
alirocumab 
On 23 July 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Praluent, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial 
and non-familial) and mixed dyslipidaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is sanofi-aventis 
groupe. 
Praluent will be available as 75 mg/ml and 150 mg/ml solution for injection in pre-filled syringes and pre-
filled pens. The active substance of Praluent is alirocumab, a lipid modifying agent. Alirocumab, a human 
monoclonal antibody, binds selectively to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), a protein 
that regulates the recycling of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors on the surface of liver cells and 
decreases the ability of the liver to clear LDL from the blood. By binding to PCSK9, alirocumab increases 
the levels of LDL receptor on the surface of liver cells thereby reducing serum LDL-cholesterol levels. 
The benefits with Praluent are its ability to reduce the levels of serum LDL-cholesterol in patients who are 
unable to control their cholesterol despite taking a maximum tolerated dose of statins or who cannot take 
statins.  
The most common side effects are upper respiratory tract signs and symptoms, pruritus and injection site 
reactions. The use of Praluent may lead to very low cholesterol levels, the impact of which on long-term 
safety has not yet been established.  
The full indication is:  
"Praluent is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and non-
familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
- 
- 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to 
reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
or for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Praluent  
EMA/CHMP/392428/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
  
  
