23 April 2015  
EMA/247591/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lumark 
Lutetium (177Lu) chloride 
On 23 April 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lumark, a 
radiopharmaceutical precursor. Lumark is not intended for direct use in patients and must be used only 
for radiolabelling carrier molecules specifically developed to be used with Lumark. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is I.D.B. Radiopharmacy B.V. 
Lumark will be available as an 8 to 400 GBq Lutetium (177Lu) radiopharmaceutical precursor solution. The 
active substance of Lumark is 177Lu, a radioactive isotope of lutetium that emits beta and gamma 
radiation. The effect of Lumark depends on the nature of the medicine that is radiolabelled with it. 
Since Lumark is not intended for direct administration without conjugation to carrier molecules, no clinical 
data with the use of Lumark alone have been submitted. However, information demonstrating the clinical 
utility of Lumark when attached to relevant carrier molecules was presented, for example in the 
molecular imaging of neuroendocrine tumours. 
Unfavourable effects relating to radiation exposure can occur with Lumark as is the case with all 
radionuclides in clinical use. These effects, which include carcinogenicity and mutagenicity, will depend on 
the radiation characteristics of lutetium (177Lu) chloride in Lumark and on the carrier molecule to which 
Lumark is labelled. In addition to radiation exposure to the patient, there is also a risk of radiation 
exposure to other individuals in close proximity to the patient.  A judgement on whether the risk is 
acceptable in any particular case can only be made in subsequent applications for carrier molecules 
intending to use Lumark as a radiolabel. 
The full indication is: "Lumark is a radiopharmaceutical precursor. It is not intended for direct use in 
patients. This medicinal must be used only for the radiolabelling of carrier molecules, which have been 
specifically developed for radiolabelling with this radionuclide”. It is recommended that Lumark only be 
used by specialists experienced with in vitro radiolabelling. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Lumark  
EMA/247591/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
