19 September 2019  
EMA/CHMP/476189/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Remsima 
infliximab 
On 19 September 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Remsima. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
The CHMP recommended approval of a new route of administration, strength and pharmaceutical form: 
Remsima 120 mg solution for injection for subcutaneous use in prefilled pens or syringes. This 
pharmaceutical form will be available in addition to the existing one: 100 mg, powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion.  
Remsima for subcutaneous use is authorised only in the rheumatoid arthritis indication. 
The full indication for Remsima for subcutaneous use is as follows: 
“Rheumatoid arthritis 
Remsima, in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for the reduction of signs and symptoms as well as 
the improvement in physical function in:  
• 
• 
adult patients with active disease when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs), including methotrexate, has been inadequate.  
adult patients with severe, active and progressive disease not previously treated with 
methotrexate or other DMARDs.  
In these patient populations, a reduction in the rate of the progression of joint damage, as measured by 
X-ray, has been demonstrated (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
