22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/46218/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sivextro 
tedizolid phosphate 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sivextro, 
200mg, film-coated tablet, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment 
of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in adults. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Cubist (UK) Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they 
notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Sivextro is tedizolid phosphate, a new oxazolidinone, which acts by inhibiting 
the protein biosynthesis in the bacterial cell, by binding to the 50S ribosomal subunit (ATC Code not 
yet assigned). 
The benefits with Sivextro are its ability to be active against important Gram-positive pathogens that 
are common aetiological agents of ABSSSI, including methicillin-resistant S.aureus (including linezolid-
resistant strains), as well as pathogenic streptococci. The most common side effects are nausea, 
headache, diarrhoea and vomiting. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Sivextro will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
"Sivextro is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI) in 
adults (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents."  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Sivextro and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Sivextro 
EMA/CHMP/46218/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
