17 February 2011 
EMA/CHMP/110226/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Hizentra 
human normal immunoglobulin   
On 17 February 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Hizentra, 
200 mg/ml, solution for subcutaneous injection intended for replacement therapy in adults and 
children in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections. 
Replacement therapy in myeloma or chronic lymphatic leukaemia with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is CSL Behring GmbH. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Hizentra is human normal immunoglobulin, an immune sera and 
immunoglobulins: immunoglobulins, normal human, for extravascular administration (ATC Code 
J06BA01). 
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) with a broad spectrum of 
antibodies against infectious agents. Human normal immunoglobulin contains the IgG antibodies 
present in the normal population. It is usually prepared from pooled plasma from not fewer than 1,000 
donors. It has a distribution of immunoglobulin G subclasses closely proportional to that in native 
human plasma. Adequate doses of this medicinal product may restore abnormally low immunoglobulin 
G levels to the normal range. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
In a study conducted in Europe, a total of 51 subjects with primary immunodeficiency syndromes aged 
between 3 and 60 years old were treated with Hizentra for up to 41 weeks. The mean dose 
administered each week was 0.12 g/kg body weight. Sustained IgG trough levels with mean 
concentrations of 7.99 – 8.25 g/l were thereby achieved throughout the treatment period. Subjects 
received in total 1,831 weekly Hizentra infusions. 
In a study conducted in the US, a total of 49 subjects with primary immunodeficiency syndromes aged 
between 5 and 72 years old were treated with Hizentra for up to 15 months. The mean dose 
administered each week was 0.23 g/kg body weight. Sustained IgG trough levels with a mean 
concentration of 12.53 g/l were thereby achieved throughout the treatment period. Subjects received 
in total 2,264 weekly Hizentra infusions. 
No serious bacterial infections were reported during the efficacy period in subjects receiving Hizentra 
during clinical studies. 
Immunoglobulins are a normal constituent of the human body. L-proline is a physiological, non-
essential amino acid. The safety of Hizentra has been assessed in several preclinical studies, with 
particular reference to the excipient L-proline. Non-clinical data reveal no special risk for humans 
based on safety pharmacology and toxicity studies. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Hizentra will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:   
Replacement therapy in adults and children in primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as: 
- congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
- common variable immunodeficiency 
- severe combined immunodeficiency 
- IgG subclass deficiencies with recurrent infections. 
Replacement therapy in myeloma or chronic lymphatic leukaemia with severe secondary 
hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections. 
It is proposed that Hizentra is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
immunodeficiency.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Hizentra and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Hizentra  
EMA/CHMP/110226/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
