26 February 2015 
EMA/140022/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zykadia 
ceritinib 
On 26 February 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Zykadia, 150 mg, hard capsule, intended for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase (ALK) positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with crizotinib. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. They may request a re-examination 
of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zykadia is ceritinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE28), inhibiting 
autophosphorylation of ALK, ALK mediated phosphorylation of downstream signalling proteins and 
proliferation of ALK dependent cancer cells. 
The benefits with Zykadia are its important activity on ALK-positive NSCLC in patients previously 
treated with crizotinib, with an objective response rate of 56.4 %and 37.1% in a phase I and II study, 
respectively. The median duration of response was 8.3 and 9.2 months, respectively. The most 
common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, liver laboratory test abnormalities, 
abdominal pain, decreased appetite, constipation, rash, blood creatinine increased, oesophageal 
disorder and anaemia. The most serious adverse reactions are hepatotoxicity, gastrointestinal effects, 
QT interval prolongation, bradycardia, interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis and hyperglycaemia.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zykadia will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Zykadia is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic 
lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with 
crizotinib". It is proposed that Zykadia be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
anti-cancer medicinal products.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zykadia and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Zykadia 
EMA/140022/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
                                                
