20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/324066/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tepkinly 
epcoritamab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional 2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tepkinly 3, intended for the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG. 
Tepkinly will be available as a 4 mg/0.8 ml concentrate for solution for injection and a 48 mg solution for 
injection. The active substance of Tepkinly is epcoritamab, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: not yet 
assigned). By simultaneously binding to CD20 on the B cell and CD3 on the T cell, epcoritamab mediates 
the formation of an immunological synapse, with subsequent T-cell activation and proliferation, secretion 
of cytokines and release of cytolytic proteins resulting in the lysis of CD20-expressing B cells. 
The benefits of Tepkinly were evident in terms of a complete response (CR) rate and overall response 
rate (ORR) with a significant duration, as observed in an open-label, multicentre trial evaluating Tepkinly 
in patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL), including DLBCL, after two or more 
lines of systemic therapy. The most common side effects are cytokine release syndrome, infections, 
neutropenia, fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, headache, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea, pyrexia, 
injection site reactions.  
The full indication is: 
Tepkinly as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after two or more lines of systemic therapy. 
Tepkinly must only be administered under the supervision of a healthcare professional qualified in the use 
of anti-cancer therapy.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tepkinly  
EMA/CHMP/324066/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
