17 September 2020 
EMA/CHMP/488242/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Tecentriq 
atezolizumab 
On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tecentriq. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have not received prior systemic 
therapy (see section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Tecentriq will be as follows:2 
Urothelial carcinoma  
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC): 
• 
• 
after prior platinum containing chemotherapy, or 
who are considered cisplatin ineligible, and whose tumours have a PD-L1 expression 
≥ 5% (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer   
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated for the first-
line treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-squamous non small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC). In patients with EGFR mutant or ALK-positive NSCLC, Tecentriq, in combination with 
bevacizumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated only after failure of appropriate targeted 
therapies (see section 5.1). 
Tecentriq as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic NSCLC after prior chemotherapy. Patients with EGFR mutant or ALK positive 
NSCLC should also have received targeted therapies before receiving Tecentriq (see section 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
5.1). 
Tecentriq, in combination with nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin, is indicated for the first-line 
treatment of adult patients with metastatic non-squamous NSCLC who do not have EGFR mutant 
or ALK positive NSCLC (see section 5.1). 
Breast cancer 
Tecentriq in combination with nab-paclitaxel is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable locally advanced or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) whose 
tumours have PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% and who have not received prior chemotherapy for 
metastatic disease. 
Small cell lung cancer  
Tecentriq, in combination with carboplatin and etoposide, is indicated for the first-line treatment 
of adult patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) (see section 5.1).  
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Tecentriq, in combination with bevacizumab, is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have not 
received prior systemic therapy (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Tecentriq  
EMA/CHMP/488242/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
