23 February 2017 
EMA/CHMP/99882/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Natpar 
parathyroid hormone 
On 23 February 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Natpar, intended for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism. Natpar was designated as an orphan medicinal 
product on 18 December 2013. The applicant for this medicinal product is Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ltd. 
Natpar will be available as powder (25, 50, 75 and 100 micrograms) and solvent for solution for injection. 
The active substance of Natpar is parathyroid hormone (ATC code: H05AA03). Natpar is intended as a 
replacement therapy for endogenous parathyroid hormone, a principal regulator of calcium and 
phosphate homeostasis. 
The main benefits with Natpar are its ability to reduce the patient’s need for calcium and vitamin D 
supplements while maintaining serum calcium levels within the desired range and partially improving 
some parameters of calcium-phosphate metabolism. The most common side effects are hypercalcaemia 
and hypocalcaemia. 
The full indication is: "Natpar is indicated as adjunctive treatment of adult patients with chronic 
hypoparathyroidism who cannot be adequately controlled with standard therapy alone". It is proposed 
that Natpar be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of hypoparathyroidism. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
