15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/767279/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Teriflunomide Mylan 
teriflunomide 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Teriflunomide 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited. 
Teriflunomide Mylan will be available as a 14 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Teriflunomide 
Mylan is teriflunomide, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA31). The exact mechanism by 
which teriflunomide exerts its therapeutic effect in MS is not fully understood, but it is known to reduce 
the proliferation of lymphocytes by blocking the mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase 
(DHO-DH). 
Teriflunomide Mylan is a generic of Aubagio, which has been authorised in the EU since 26th of August 
2013. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Teriflunomide Mylan, and its bioequivalence 
to the reference product Aubagio. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is: 
Teriflunomide Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 
10 years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) (please refer to section 5.1 
for important information on the population for which efficacy has been established). 
Treatment with Teriflunomide Mylan should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the 
management of multiple sclerosis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
