15 December 2016 
EMA/858904/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Alecensa 
alectinib 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Alecensa, intended for the treatment of patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with crizotinib. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
Alecensa will be available as 150 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Alecensa is alectinib, a 
protein kinase inhibitor (L01XE36) that inhibits autophosphorylation of ALK, ALK-mediated 
phosphorylation of downstream signalling proteins and proliferation of ALK-dependent cancer cells. 
The benefits with Alecensa are its important activity on ALK-positive NSCLC in patients previously treated 
with crizotinib, with objective response rates of 50.8% and 52.2% (response evaluable population) in two 
phase II studies. The median duration of response in the studies was 15.2 and 14.9 months, respectively 
and the median progression free survival was 8.9 and 8.2 months.  
The most common side effects are constipation, oedema (including peripheral oedema, generalised 
oedema, eyelid oedema, periorbital oedema), myalgia (including myalgia and musculoskeletal pain) and 
nausea. The most serious adverse reactions are interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis, hepatotoxicity, 
severe myalgia and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation and bradycardia. 
The full indication is: "Alecensa as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously 
treated with crizotinib". It is proposed that Alecensa be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of 
anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
granted by the European Commission. 
Alecensa  
EMA/858904/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
