16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/470881/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 16 September  2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Opdivo. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma 
EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or metastatic 
gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumours express PD-
L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 5. 
For information, the full indications for Opdivo will be as follows: 
Melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab  is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab  is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
1 Summaries of  positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days f rom adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with melanoma with 
involvement of lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection (see 
section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab  and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose tumours have 
no sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after prior  chemotherapy in adults. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab  is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after prior 
therapy in adults. 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab  is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Opdivo in combination with cabozantinib is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and treatment with 
brentuximab vedotin.  
Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell 
cancer of the head and neck in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Urothelial carcinoma 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy. 
Mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal 
cancer (CRC) 
Opdivo in combination with ipilimumab  is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer after prior 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable 
advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior 
fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/470881/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (OC or GEJC) 
Opdivo as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with oesophageal 
or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer who have residual pathologic disease following prior 
neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
Opdivo in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or metastatic 
gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumours express PD-
L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 5. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/470881/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
