16 February 2012 
EMA/CHMP/70728/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nimenrix 
Meningococcal group A, C, W135 and Y conjugate vaccine 
On 16 February 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nimenrix, 
powder and solvent for solution for injection intended for active immunisation of individuals from the 
age of 12 months and above against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
group A, C, W-135 and Y. The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKlline Biologicals. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Nimenrix is a Meningococcal group A, C, W138 and Y conjugate vaccine, 
Meningococcal vaccines (J07AH08) where the anti-capsular meningococcal antibodies protect against 
meningococcal diseases via complement mediated bactericidal activity. 
The benefits with Nimenrix are its ability to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis  
groups A, C, W-135 and Y in individuals from 12 months and above.  The most common side effects 
are redness, pain and swelling. A pharmacovigilance plan for Nimenrix will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Indication for active immunisation of individuals from the age of 12 
months and above against invasive meningococcal diseases caused by Neisseria meningitidis group A, 
C, W-135 and Y". The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. It is 
proposed that Nimenrix is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of invasive disease 
caused by Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W-135 and Y.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Nimenrix and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Nimenrix 
EMA/CHMP/70728/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
