21 November 2013 
EMA/CHMP/636968/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tivicay 
dolutegravir 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Tivicay, 50 mg, Film-coated tablet intended for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is ViiV Healthcare. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
The active substance of Tivicay is dolutegravir, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AX12). 
Dolutegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and blocking the strand 
transfer step of retroviral Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) integration which is essential for the HIV 
replication cycle. 
The benefit with Ticivay is the efficacy demonstrated in adult patients with and without resistance to 
the integrase inhibitors class (documented or clinically suspected) and in adolescents without 
resistance to the integrase inhibitors class. The most common side effects for Tivicay are diarrhoea 
(16%), nausea (15%) and headache (14%). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tivicay will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Tivicay is indicated in combination with other anti-retroviral medicinal 
products for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected adults and adolescents 
above 12 years of age". It is proposed that Tivicay be prescribed by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of HIV infection. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Tivicay and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Tivicay 
EMA/CHMP/636968/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
