20 May 2021  
EMA/283696/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Eucreas 
vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On 20 May 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Eucreas. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the existing indication as follows:2 
Eucreas is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adults 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
• 
• 
in patients who are inadequately controlled with metformin hydrochloride alone. 
in  patients  who  are  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of  vildagliptin  and 
metformin hydrochloride, as separate tablets. 
• 
in  combination  with  other  medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  diabetes,  including 
insulin, when these do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 
5.1 for available data on different combinations). 
Eucreas is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
•  Eucreas is indicated in the treatment of adult patients who are unable to achieve sufficient glycaemic 
control at their maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone or who are already treated with 
the combination of vildagliptin and metformin as separate tablets. 
•  Eucreas  is  indicated  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  (i.e.  triple  combination  therapy)  as  an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  adult  patients  inadequately  controlled  with  metformin  and  a 
sulphonylurea. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Eucreas is indicated in triple combination therapy with insulin as an adjunct to diet and exercise to 
improve glycaemic control in adult patients when insulin at a stable dose and metformin alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Eucreas  
EMA/283696/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
