23 June 2022  
EMA/CHMP/560868/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Rinvoq 
upadacitinib 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rinvoq.2 The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & 
Co. KG. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Rinvoq is indicated for the treatment of active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis in adult 
patients with objective signs of inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) 
and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), who have responded inadequately to nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
For information, the full indications for Rinvoq will therefore be as follows:3 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult 
patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). RINVOQ may be used as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate. 
Psoriatic arthritis  
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have 
responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more DMARDs. RINVOQ may be used 
as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This recommendation is without prejudice to the final conclusions of the ongoing referral procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data. 
3 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA) 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active non-radiographic axial 
spondyloarthritis in adult patients with objective signs of inflammation as indicated by 
elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), who 
have responded inadequately to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS, radiographic axial spondyloarthritis) 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of active ankylosing spondylitis in adult patients who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy. 
Atopic dermatitis 
RINVOQ is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and 
adolescents 12 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Rinvoq  
EMA/CHMP/560868/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
