30 January 2020 
EMA/CHMP/44961/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nilemdo 
bempedoic acid 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nilemdo, 
intended for the treatment of adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative 
Service GmbH. 
Nilemdo will be available as 180 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Nilemdo is bempedoic 
acid, a lipid modifying agent (ATC code: C10AX15). Bempedoic acid lowers low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C) by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis in the liver. 
The benefits with Nilemdo are its ability to reduce levels of LDL-C but also non-high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (non-HDL-C), apolipoprotein B (apo B), and total cholesterol (TC) in patients with 
hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia when administered alone and in combination with other 
lipid-modifying medicinal products. The most common side effects are hyperuricaemia, pain in extremity, 
and anaemia. 
The full indication is: 
“Nilemdo is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
• 
• 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to 
reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin (see sections 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4) 
or, 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, or 
for whom a statin is contraindicated.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
granted by the European Commission. 
Nilemdo  
EMA/CHMP/44961/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
