14 November 2019 
EMA/CHMP/402512/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Polivy 
polatuzumab vedotin 
On 14 November 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Polivy3, intended for the treatment of relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in 
combination with bendamustine and rituximab. The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration GmbH. 
Polivy will be available as a 140 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Polivy is polatuzumab vedotin (ATC code: L01XC37) is a CD79b targeted antibody-drug conjugate that 
preferentially delivers a potent anti-mitotic agent (monomethyl auristatin E, or MMAE) to B cells, which 
results in the killing of malignant B-cells. 
The benefits with Polivy in combination with bendamustine and rituximab are its ability to elicit higher rates 
of complete responses as compared to bendamustine – rituximab alone. The most common side effects are 
infections neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neuropathy, dizziness, 
cough, gastrointestinal disorders, fatigue, pyrexia, asthenia, chills and infusion-related reactions. 
The full indication is: “Polivy in combination with bendamustine and rituximab is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) who are not candidates for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplant.” It is proposed that Polivy must only be administered under the 
supervision of a healthcare professional experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit to 
public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The marketing 
authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to date 
to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
