European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/776168/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PROLIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): denosumab 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Prolia, 
60mg/ml,  solution  for  injection  intended  for  osteoporosis  and  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone 
ablation. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Prolia  is  denosumab,  a  drug  affecting  bone  structure  and  mineralization 
medicinal product (ATC Code M05BX04). Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that targets 
and  binds  with  high  affinity  and  specificity  to  RANK  ligand  (RANKL),  preventing  activation  of  its 
receptor,  RANK,  on  the  surface  of  osteoclast  precursors  and  osteoclasts.  Prevention  of  the 
RANKL/RANK  interaction  inhibits  osteoclast  formation,  function  and  survival,  thereby  decreasing 
bone resorption in cortical and trabecular bone. 
The  benefits  with  Prolia  are  its  ability  to  significantly  reduce  the  risk  of  vertebral,  hip  and  non-
vertebral  fractures  and  increase  bone  mineral  density  in postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk of 
fractures.  Prolia  also  significantly  reduces  the  risk  of  vertebral  fractures  and  increases  bone  mineral 
density in men with prostate cancer at increased risk of fractures receiving hormone ablation.   
The  most  common  side  effects  are  urinary  tract  infection,  upper  respiratory  tract  infection,  cataract, 
constipation, rash, sciatica and pain in extremity. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Prolia, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
(cid:131)  Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures. 
(cid:131)  Treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  at 
increased  risk  of  fractures.  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving  hormone  ablation,  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the Agency in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Prolia and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
