20 January 2011 
EMA/26661/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Gilenya 
fingolimod 
On 20 January 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Gilenya, 
0.5 mg, hard capsule intended for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis with high disease activity.  The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Gilenya is fingolimod, a selective immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA27) 
acting as a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator. Fingolimod is metabolised to the active 
metabolite fingolimod phosphate, a functional antagonist of S1P receptors on lymphocytes. Fingolimod 
phosphate blocks the capacity of lymphocytes to egress from lymph nodes, causing a redistribution, 
rather than depletion, of lymphocytes. This redistribution reduces the infiltration of pathogenic 
lymphocyte cells into the central nervous system. 
The benefits with Gilenya are its ability in reducing the number of relapses in patients with relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis. The most common side effects (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are 
influenza viral infections, headache, diarrhoea, back pain, cough and elevated liver enzyme (known as 
ALT). Other common side effects (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) that could be or could 
become serious are herpes virus infection (shingles or herpes zoster), lymphopenia, leucopenia 
(reduced white blood cells), bradycardia (slow heartbeat), atrioventricular block (irregular heart 
rhythm), bronchitis and gastroenteritis. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Gilenya will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The approved indication is:  
“Gilenya  is  indicated  as  single  disease  modifying  therapy  in  highly  active  relapsing  remitting  multiple 
sclerosis for the following adult patient groups:  
• 
Patients with high disease activity despite treatment with a beta-interferon.  
These patients may be defined as those who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course 
(normally at least one year of treatment) of beta-interferon. Patients should have had at least 1 
relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and have at least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial 
MRI or at least 1 Gadolinium-enhancing lesion. A “non-responder” could also be defined as a patient 
with an unchanged or increased relapse rate or ongoing severe relapses, as compared to the previous 
year. 
or 
• 
Patients with rapidly evolving severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis defined by 2 or more 
disabling relapses in one year, and with 1 or more Gadolinium enhancing lesions on brain MRI or a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI”. 
It is proposed that Gilenya is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of multiple 
sclerosis.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Gilenya and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Gilenya  
EMA/26661/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
