21 July 2022 
EMA/CHMP/644170/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vabysmo 
faricimab 
On 21 July 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vabysmo, 
intended for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and diabetic macular 
oedema (DME). The applicant for this medicinal product is Roche Registration GmbH. 
Vabysmo will be available as a 120 mg/ml solution for injection. The active substance of Vabysmo is 
faricimab, a bispecific antibody that neutralises both angiopoietin-2 and VEGF-A. By dual inhibition of 
Ang-2 and VEGF-A, faricimab reduces vascular permeability and inflammation, inhibits pathological 
angiogenesis and restores vascular stability which are associated with the increased retinal thickness 
observed in nAMD and DME. 
The main benefit of Vabysmo is the improvement in visual acuity as measured in four phase III, 
randomised, double-masked, active comparator-controlled clinical studies. The most common side effects 
are cataract and conjunctival haemorrhage. 
The full indication is: 
Vabysmo is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with: 
Neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), 
Visual impairment due to diabetic macular oedema (DME). 
Vabysmo should be administered by a qualified physician experienced in intravitreal injections. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
