20 July 2017  
EMA/CHMP/464835/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Xermelo 
telotristat ethyl 
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Xermelo, 
intended for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhoea in combination with a somatostatin analogue. 
Xermelo was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 October 2009. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Ipsen Pharma. 
Xermelo will be available as 250-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance in Xermelo, telotristat 
ethyl, inhibits L-tryptophan hydroxylases (TPH1 and TPH2), which are the rate-limiting step in serotonin 
biosynthesis. Serotonin is over-secreted in patients with neuroendocrine tumours and carcinoid 
syndrome. Serotonin is thought to contribute to the symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome. 
The benefits with Xermelo are its ability to decrease the number of bowel movements per day in patients 
whose carcinoid syndrome diarrhoea cannot be managed with somatostatin analogues alone.  
The most common side effects are abdominal pain, fatigue and increased gamma-glutamyl transferase (a 
liver enzyme). 
The full indication is: "Xermelo is indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhoea in 
combination with somatostatin analogue (SSA) therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA 
therapy". 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
