24 September 2015  
EMA/628694/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ravicti 
glycerol phenylbutyrate 
On 24 September 2015 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product RAVICTI, 
intended for the treatment of  adult and paediatric patients ≥2 months of age with urea cycle disorders 
including deficiencies of carbamoyl phosphate-synthase-I, ornithine carbamoyltransferase, 
argininosuccinate synthetase, argininosuccinate lyase, arginase I and ornithine translocase deficiency 
hyperornithinaemia-hyperammonaemia homocitrullinuria syndrome who cannot be managed by dietary 
protein restriction and/or amino acid supplementation alone.  
 RAVICTI was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 10 June 2010. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Horizon Therapeutics Limited. 
RAVICTI will be available as 1.1 g/ml Oral liquid. The active substance of RAVICTI is glycerol 
phenylbutyrate, metabolism products (ATC code: A16AX09). Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a nitrogen-
binding medicinal product. 
The benefits with RAVICTI are its ability to reduce the blood ammonia levels. The most common side 
effects are abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhoea, and/or headache.  The most frequently reported adverse 
reactions were diarrhoea, flatulence, and headache (8.8% each); decreased appetite (7.0%), vomiting 
(6.1%); and fatigue, nausea and, skin odour abnormal (5.3% each).These reactions usually disappear 
within a few days even if treatment is continued. 
The full indication is: " RAVICTI is indicated for use as adjunctive therapy  for chronic management of 
adult and paediatric patients ≥2 months of age with urea cycle disorders (UCDs) including deficiencies of 
carbamoyl phosphate-synthase-I (CPS), ornithine carbamoyltransferase (OTC), argininosuccinate 
synthetase (ASS), argininosuccinate lyase (ASL), arginase I (ARG) and ornithine translocase deficiency 
hyperornithinaemia-hyperammonaemia homocitrullinuria syndrome (HHH) who cannot be managed by 
dietary protein restriction and/or amino acid supplementation alone. 
RAVICTI must be used with dietary protein restriction and, in some cases, dietary supplements (e.g., 
essential amino acids, arginine, citrulline, protein-free calorie supplements). " 
It is proposed that RAVICTI be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of urea cycle 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
                                                
disorders.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Ravicti  
EMA/628694/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
