21 April 2017  
EMA/CHMP/245560/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Besponsa 
inotuzumab ozogamicin 
On 21 April 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Besponsa, 
intended for the treatment of adults with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Besponsa was designated as an 
orphan medicinal product on 7 June 2013. The applicant for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. 
Besponsa will be available as a 1-mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active 
substance of Besponsa is inotuzumab ozogamicin, a humanised immunoglobulin class G subtype 4 (IgG4) 
antibody (ATC code: L01XC26) that specifically recognises human CD22. 
Besponsa has been shown to increase the proportion of patients who have complete remission and 
molecular remission and to delay the progression of disease. The most common side effects are 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, leucopenia, infection, haemorrhage and venoocclusive liver 
disease/sinusoidal obstruction syndrome. 
The full indication is: "Besponsa is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with relapsed or 
refractory CD22-positive B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Adult patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) relapsed or refractory B cell precursor ALL should have failed 
treatment with at least 1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)".  
It is proposed that Besponsa be prescribed by physicians experienced in treating cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
