21 November 2013 
EMA/702774/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Erbitux 
cetuximab 
On 21 November 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the 
medicinal product Erbitux.  
Amended use of Erbitux 
The CHMP changed the indication for use in metastatic colorectal cancer (cancer of the lower bowel or 
rectum that has spread to other parts of the body) to clarify the particular genetic makeup of the 
cancer that must be present before treatment with Erbitux, which is described as epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR)-expressing, RAS wild-type disease. Previously, use was indicated in those with 
EGFR-expressing, KRAS-wild type metastatic colorectal cancer. The full indication will now be 2: 
“Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR)-expressing, RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer 
• 
• 
in combination with irinotecan-based chemotherapy, 
in first-line in combination with FOLFOX, 
•  as a single agent in patients who have failed oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based 
therapy and who are intolerant to irinotecan. 
Erbitux is indicated for the treatment of patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck 
• 
• 
in combination with radiation therapy for locally advanced disease, 
in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic 
disease”. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the amended indication 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
Amended contraindication 
The CHMP also recommended that the contraindications for Erbitux against use with oxaliplatin-
containing chemotherapy in patients who have certain mutations (genetic changes) in their cancer 
should be amended to state that Erbitux must not be used in patients whose tumours carry mutations 
in RAS genes. Previously, use of Erbitux with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy was prohibited in 
patients whose tumours carried the KRAS gene (one type of RAS gene). The full contraindications for 
Erbitux will be as follows3: 
"Erbitux is contraindicated in patients with known severe (grade 3 or 4) hypersensitivity 
reactions to cetuximab. 
The combination of Erbitux with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy is 
contraindicated for patients with mutant RAS metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) or 
for whom RAS mCRC status is unknown. 
Before initiation of combination treatment, contraindications for concomitantly used 
chemotherapeutic agents or radiation therapy must be considered". 
An assessment report containing details of the CHMP’s evaluation and its conclusions on the amended 
benefit-risk balance of Erbitux will be available on the EMA website after the European Commission has 
issued a decision.   
The updated EU product information containing the CHMP’s full recommendations on how Erbitux 
should be used will be published on the EMA website after the European Commission has granted a 
marketing authorisation. The updated EU product information, which includes the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) and the package leaflet, will be available in all official languages of the EU. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck KGaA. They may request a re-
examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing 
of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
3 The text in bold represents the new or the amended contraindication 
Erbitux 
EMA/702774/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
                                                
