23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/604677/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vyvgart 
efgartigimod alfa 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vyvgart2, 
intended for the treatment of anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody positive generalised Myasthenia 
Gravis. The applicant for this medicinal product is Argenx. 
Vyvgart will be available as 20mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Vyvgart is efgartigimod alfa, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AA58). Efgartigimod alfa is a 
fragment of human IgG1 antibody that binds to the neonatal Fc Receptor (FcRn), thereby decreasing the 
levels of circulating IgG, including pathogenic IgG autoantibodies. 
Benefits of Vyvgart include a decrease in functional disability as rated by patients, and less disease 
severity as assessed by qualified physicians, as compared with placebo in clinical trials. The most 
common side effects are upper respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections. 
The full indication is: 
Vyvgart is indicated as an add-on to standard therapy for the treatment of adult patients with 
generalised Myasthenia Gravis (gMG) who are anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody 
positive.  
Efgartigimod alfa must be administered by a healthcare professional and under the supervision of a 
physician experienced in the management of patients with neuromuscular disorders. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
