22 April 2010 
EMA/CHMP/159861/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Daxas 
Roflumilast 
On 22 April 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Daxas, 500 
microgram, film-coated tablets intended for the maintenance treatment of severe chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Nycomed GmbH. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Daxas is roflumilast, a systemic drug for obstructive airway diseases (ATC 
Code: R03DX07). Roflumilast is an anti-inflammatory agent designed to target both the systemic and 
pulmonary inflammation associated with COPD. Roflumilast reduces the activity of phosphodiesterase 4 
(PDE4), an enzyme found in body cells and which is important to the pathogenesis of COPD.  
The benefits with Daxas are its ability to reduce inflammation in the lungs, to reduce narrowing of 
airways and to ease breathing problems in adults with severe COPD. 
The most common side effects are diarrhoea, weight decrease, nausea, stomach ache and headache. 
Diarrhoea, nausea, stomach ache and headache mainly occur within the first weeks of therapy and 
mostly resolve on continued treatment. After discontinuation of Daxas, the majority of patients regain 
body weight after 3 months.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Daxas will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Daxas is indicated for maintenance treatment of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
(FEV1 post-bronchodilator less than 50% predicted) associated with chronic bronchitis in adult patients 
with a history of frequent exacerbations as add on to bronchodilator treatment. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7 7418 8545 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Daxas and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Daxas  
EMA/CHMP/159861/2010 
Page 2/2
 
 
 
