European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/368573/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
JANUVIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Januvia.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Merck  Sharp  & 
Dohme Ltd. 
The  CHMP  adopted  a  new  indication  as  follows:  “to  improve  glycaemic  control  when  diet  and 
exercise alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to 
contraindications or intolerance.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Januvia will be as follows***: 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Januvia is indicated: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to  improve  glycaemic  control  when  diet  and  exercise  alone  do  not  provide  adequate 
glycaemic  control  and  when  metformin  is  inappropriate  due  to  contraindications  or 
intolerance. 
to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise  plus 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus 
maximal  tolerated  dose  of  a  sulphonylurea  alone  do  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control 
and when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  and  metformin  when  diet 
and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in whom use of a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is 
appropriate, Januvia is indicated: 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
in combination with the PPARγ agonist when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone 
do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
in  combination  with  the  PPARγ  agonist  and  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  dual 
therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
