22 September 2011
EMA/CHMP/755839/2011
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Komboglyze
saxagliptin / metformin 
On 22 September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Komboglyze, 2.5 mg/850mg and 2.5mg/1000 mg film-coated tablet intended for treatment of type 2 
diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb / AstraZeneca EEIG. 
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.
The active substance of Komboglyze is saxagliptin / metformin hydrochloride (A10BD10), a 
combination of oral blood glucose lowering products. Saxagliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) 
inhibitor. DPP-4 inhibition reduces the cleavage and inactivation of the active (intact) form of the 
incretin hormone glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and glucose dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
(GIP), producing an elevation of incretin concentrations that leads to enhancement of glucose-
dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon release. This way saxagliptin improves 
glycaemic control by reducing fasting and postprandial glucose concentrations in patients with 
type 2 diabetes. Metformin is a biguanide and has an antihyperglycaemic effect, lowering both basal 
and postprandial plasma glucose concentrations. It is thought to act via various mechanisms, including
decreasing hepatic glucose production, decreasing intestinal absorption of glucose, and improving 
insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilisation. Komboglyze combines these 
two glucose-lowering agents with complementary mechanisms of action.
The benefits with Komboglyze are its reduction of blood glucose levels in patients inadequately 
controlled by metformin alone; and as being equivalent in its glucose-lowering effect compared to the 
combined use of saxagliptin 5mg once daily and metformin twice daily as an alternative option for 
patients being treated with these 2 medicines as separate tablets already. The most common side 
effects are upper respiratory infection, urinary tract infection, gastroenteritis, sinusitis, 
nasopharyngitis, headache, vomiting, nausea and rash. A common side effect of metformin use is 
metallic taste.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)20 7418 8400 Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax>
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu Website www.ema.europa.eu
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
                                               
A pharmacovigilance plan for Komboglyze will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Komboglyze is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve 
glycaemic control in adult patients aged 18 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately 
controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being treated with 
the combination of saxagliptin and metformin as separate tablets.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Komboglyze and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Komboglyze
EMA/CHMP/755839/2011
Page 2/2
