17 December 2015  
EMA/CHMP/777080/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Vaxelis 
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis B (rDNA), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) and haemophilus type B conjugate vaccine 
(adsorbed) 
On 17 December 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vaxelis, 
intended for prophylaxis against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and invasive 
diseases caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Sanofi Pasteur MSD SNC. 
Vaxelis will be available as a suspension for injection in pre-filled syringes. The active substances of 
Vaxelis are derived from diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis B (rDNA), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) and haemophilus type B bacteria. Vaxelis is a combined bacterial and viral 
vaccine (ATC code: J07CA09) that works by inducing the immune system to mount a specific immune 
response against the antigens included in its formulation. 
The benefits with Vaxelis are its ability to elicit immune responses to each antigen, which are above 
predefined thresholds of protection and non-inferior to immune responses of a comparator vaccine after 
the booster dose. The most common side effects are decreased appetite, somnolence, vomiting, 
crying/irritability, fever and injection site reactions (erythema, pain and swelling).  
The full indication is: “primary and booster vaccination in infants and toddlers from the age of 6 weeks 
against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and invasive diseases caused by 
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). The use of Vaxelis should be in accordance with official 
recommendations".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
