1 April 2016 
EMA/CHMP/220589/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Galafold 
migalastat 
On 1 April 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Galafold, intended for 
the treatment of Fabry disease. Galafold was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 22 May 2006. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Amicus Therapeutics UK Ltd. 
Galafold will be available as 123 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Galafold is migalastat,  
a pharmacological chaperone designed to selectively and reversibly bind to certain mutant forms of the  
α-Gal A enzyme, in patients with GLA mutations responsive to migalastat (defined as amenable 
mutations). Migalastat binding stabilizes the enzyme thus facilitating its trafficking to the lysosomes 
where the enzyme activity is restored. 
The benefits of Galafold are its ability to stabilise renal function for up to 18 months in patients with 
experience of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and up to 30 months in ERT-naïve patients.  
It also improves cardiac function following 18 months of treatment in ERT-experienced patients and  
30 months of treatment in ERT-naïve patients. The most common side effect is headache which is seen in 
more than 10% of patients. 
The full indication is: "Galafold is indicated for long-term treatment of adults and adolescents aged  
16 years and older with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency) and who 
have an amenable mutation.” 
It is proposed that Galafold is prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of Fabry disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
