24 June 2010 
EMA/392565/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Brinavess  
vernakalant hydrochloride 
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Brinavess, 
20 mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion intended for rapid conversion of recent onset atrial 
fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults (for non-surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 7 days duration; for 
post-cardiac surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 3 days duration). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Brinavess is vernakalant hydrochloride a novel anti-arrhythmic drug that acts 
preferentially in the atria (ATP code: C01BG11) to prolong atrial refractoriness and to rate-dependently 
slow impulse conduction. 
The benefits with Brinavess are its ability to rapidly convert atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm.  The 
most common side effects seen in the first 24 hours after receiving Brinavess were dysgeusia (taste 
disturbance), sneezing and paraesthesia. Serious side effects, including hypotension, bradycardia and 
complete AV block occurred infrequently. The arrhythmogenic potential of vernakalant appears limited 
but more information on this potential will be collected from a Post-authorisation Registry study. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Brinavess will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in 
adults:  
• 
• 
for non-surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 7 days duration;  
for post-cardiac surgery patients: atrial fibrillation ≤ 3 days duration.”  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
It is proposed that Brinavess is administered by intravenous infusion, by qualified medical personnel in 
a monitored clinical setting appropriate for cardioversion. Detailed recommendations for the use of this 
product will be described in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC), which will be published in 
the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union 
languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Brinavess and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Brinavess  
EMA/392565/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
