20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/490023/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Otezla 
apremilast 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Otezla, 10 mg, 20 mg, 30 mg, film-coated tabled intended for the treatment , alone or in combination 
with Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs), of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior DMARD therapy 
and the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to 
respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including 
cyclosporine, methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA). The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Celgene Europe Limited. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided 
they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the 
opinion. 
The active substance of Otezla is apremilast, an immunosuppressant (ATC Code: L04AA32). 
Apremilast, an oral small-molecule inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4), works intracellularly to 
modulate a network of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory mediators. PDE4 is a cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate (cAMP)-specific PDE and the dominant PDE in inflammatory cells. PDE4 inhibition 
elevates intracellular cAMP levels, which in turn down-regulates the inflammatory response by 
modulating the expression of TNF-α, IL-23, IL-17 and other inflammatory cytokines. Cyclic AMP also 
modulates levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-10. 
The benefits with Otezla in psoriatic arthritis are its ability to significantly improve the signs and 
symptoms of psoriatic arthritis, as assessed by the American college of rheumatology (ACR) 20 
response criteria compared to placebo at Weeks 16. This ACR 20 response was maintained at Week 
24.  
The benefits with Otezla in plaque psoriasis are its ability to significantly improve moderate to severe 
plaque psoriasis as demonstrated by the proportion of patients with Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 
score (PASI)-75 and sPGA responses at Week 16, compared to placebo. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The most common side effects are gastrointestinal disorders including diarrhoea and nausea. The other 
most commonly reported adverse reactions included upper respiratory tract infections, headache, and 
tension headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Otezla will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indications are:  
Psoriatic arthritis 
Otezla, alone or in combination with Disease Modifying Antirheumatic Drugs (DMARDs), is indicated for 
the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in adult patients who have had an inadequate response 
or who have been intolerant to a prior DMARD therapy (see section 5.1).  
Psoriasis 
Otezla is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who failed to respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy 
including cyclosporine, methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA).  
Treatment with Otezla should be initiated by specialists experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Otezla and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Otezla  
EMA/CHMP/490023/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
