23 June 2022 
EMA/CHMP/562259/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sunlenca  
lenacapavir 
On 23 June 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sunlenca, 
intended for the treatment of adults with multidrug-resistant human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
(HIV-1) infection. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences Ireland UC. 
Sunlenca will be available as a 300 mg film-coated tablet and a 464 mg solution for injection. The active 
substance of Sunlenca is lenacapavir, an antiviral for systemic use (ATC code: J05AX). Lenacapavir is a 
selective inhibitor of HIV-1 capsid function that directly binds to the interface between capsid protein (CA) 
subunits and  inhibits HIV-1 replication by interfering with multiple, essential steps of the viral lifecycle. 
The main benefits of Sunlenca are its ability to sustainably reduce HIV-1 viral load and keep it at a low 
level and the increase of the CD4 cell count, as shown in the CAPELLA study in 72 patients with multiclass 
resistant (MDR) HIV-1.  
The most common adverse reactions in observed in this trial were injection site reactions and nausea  
The full indication is: 
Sunlenca injection, in combination with other antiretroviral(s), is indicated for the treatment 
of adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infection for whom it is otherwise not possible to 
construct a suppressive anti-viral regimen (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Sunlenca tablet, in combination with other antiretroviral(s), is indicated for the treatment of 
adults with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infection for whom it is otherwise not possible to construct 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a suppressive anti-viral regimen, for oral loading prior to administration of long-acting 
lenacapavir injection (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
Sunlenca should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of HIV. Prior to starting 
lenacapavir, the healthcare professional should carefully select patients who agree to the required 
injection schedule. To help maintain viral suppression and reduce the risk of viral rebound and potential 
development of resistance associated with missed doses, the healthcare professional should also counsel 
patients about the importance of adherence to both the scheduled dosing visits and the optimised 
background regimen. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Sunlenca  
EMA/CHMP/562259/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
