15 September 2022 
EMA/721412/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mycapssa 
octreotide 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Mycapssa2, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with acromegaly. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Amryt Pharmaceuticals DAC. 
Mycapssa will be available as a 20 mg gastro-resistant hard capsule. The active substance of Mycapssa is 
octreotide, a somatostatin analogue (ATC code: H01CB02). It inhibits pathologically increased secretion 
of growth hormone in patients with acromegaly. 
The benefit of Mycapssa is its ability to maintain biochemical control of pathologically increased hormone 
secretion in patients with acromegaly after switching from an injectable form of octreotide. The most 
common side effects are abdominal pain, diarrhoea and nausea. 
Mycapssa is a hybrid medicine3 of Sandostatin IR which has been authorised in the EU since 06 Oct 1995. 
Mycapssa contains the same active substance as Sandostatin IR, but in contrast to Sandostatin IR it is 
administered orally in hard capsules.  
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Mycapssa.  
The full indication is: 
Mycapssa is indicated for maintenance treatment in adult patients with acromegaly who have 
responded to and tolerated treatment with somatostatin analogues. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
3 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Mycapssa  
EMA/721412/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
