20 May 2021 
EMA/CHMP/212648/2021  corr. 
Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human  Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Klisyri 
tirbanibulin  
On 20 May 2021, the Com mittee for Medicinal Products for Hum an Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a m arketing authorisation for the m edicinal product Klisyri, 
intended for the treatment of actinic keratosis. 
The applicant for this m edicinal product is Alm irall, S.A. 
Klisyri will be available as 10 m g/g ointm ent. The active substance of Klisyri is tirbanibulin and belongs to 
the pharm acotherapeutic group of antibiotics and chemotherapeutics for dermatological use (ATC code: 
D06BX03). It works by disrupting m icrotubules by direct binding to tubulin, which induces cell cycle arrest 
and apoptotic death of proliferating cells. 
The benefits of Klisyri are higher complete and partial clearance rates of lesions on the face and scalp in 
patients treated with Klisyri com pared with vehicle, as observed in two pivotal random ised, double-blind, 
vehicle-controlled Phase III studies. The m ost common side effects are local skin reactions at the 
application site including erythema, flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling and erosion/ulceration. 
The full indication is: 
Klisyri is indicated for the field treatm ent of non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic 
keratosis (Olsen grade 1) of the face or scalp in adults. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (Sm PC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
m ade available in all official European Union languages after the m arketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published  without prejudice  to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question   Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency  of  the European  Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
