European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/720221/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
TEPADINA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): thiotepa 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Tepadina, 15mg and 100mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended as conditioning 
treatment prior to autologous or allogeneic haematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation in adult and 
paediatric patients. Tepadina was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 29 January 2007. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is ADIENNE S.r.l.. 
The active substance of Tepadina is thiotepa, an ethylene imine medicinal product (L01AC01), which 
is a cell cycle-phase independent, non-specific alkylating antineoplastic agent, related chemically and 
pharmacologically to the nitrogen mustard.  
The  benefits  with  Tepadina  are  its  cytotoxic  and  myeloablative  ability  which  are  applied  to 
conditioning  treatment  prior  to  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation.  The  most  common  side 
effects  are  infections,  pancytopenia,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  haemorrhagic  cystitis  and  mucosal 
inflammation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tepadina, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “in combination with other chemotherapy medicinal products: 1) with or 
without  total  body  irradiation  (TBI),  as  conditioning  treatment  prior  to  allogeneic  or  autologous 
haematopoietic  progenitor  cell  transplantation  (HPCT)  in  haematological  diseases  in  adult  and 
paediatric  patients;  2)  when  high  dose  chemotherapy  with  HPCT  support  is  appropriate  for  the 
treatment  of  solid  tumours  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients.”.  It  is  proposed  that  Tepadina  must  be 
prescribed by physicians experienced in conditioning treatment prior to haematopoietic progenitor cell 
transplantation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Tepadina  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
