28 January 2021 
EMA/CHMP/17719/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kesimpta 
ofatumumab 
On 28 January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kesimpta, 
intended for the treatment of adult patients with active relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Ireland Limited. 
Kesimpta will be available as a 20 mg solution for injection for subcutaneous administration. The active 
substance of Kesimpta is ofatumumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody that targets a receptor called 
CD20 expressed on the B-cells. 
The benefits with Kesimpta are its ability to prevent relapses and slowing disease progression. The most 
common side effects are upper respiratory tract infections and injection-related reactions. 
The full indication is:  
Kesimpta is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis 
(RMS) with active disease defined by clinical or imaging features (see section 5.1).  
Kesimpta treatment should be initiated by physicians experienced in the management of neurological 
conditions. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
