16 September 2021 
EMA/CHMP/352390/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Brukinsa 
zanubrutinib 
On 16 September 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Brukinsa2, 
intended for the treatment of Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (WM). 
The applicant for this medicinal product is BeiGene Ireland Ltd. 
Brukinsa will be available as 80 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Brukinsa is zanubrutinib, a 
Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor (ATC code: L01EL03) which blocks the activity of BTK inactivating 
the pathways necessary for B-cell proliferation, trafficking, chemotaxis, and adhesion. 
The benefits of Brukinsa are a clinically meaningful rate of very good partial response (VGPR) and/or 
complete response (CR). The most common side effects are neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, upper 
respiratory tract infection, haemorrhage/haematoma, rash, bruising, anaemia, musculoskeletal pain, 
diarrhoea, pneumonia and cough. 
The full indication is: 
Brukinsa as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s 
macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first line treatment 
for patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy. 
Brukinsa should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
