19 January 2012 
EMA/CHMP/508725/2011 – Rev.1 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pioglitazone Actavis 
Pioglitazone  
On 19 January 2012 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a revised 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Pioglitazone Actavis, 15 mg, 30mg and 45mg, tablets intended for the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. The revision amends the wording of the product information to ensure that the terms of the 
marketing authorization are in line with the outcome of the referral of the reference medicinal 
products. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actavis Group PTC ehf.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Pioglitazone Actavis is pioglitazone, a drug used in diabetes, blood glucose 
lowering drugs, excl. insulins  (A10BG03) and appears to act via activation of specific nuclear receptors 
(peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma) leading to increased insulin sensitivity of liver, fat 
and skeletal muscle cells in animals. Treatment with pioglitazone has been shown to reduce hepatic 
glucose output and to increase peripheral glucose disposal in the case of insulin resistance.  
Pioglitazone Actavis Group 15, 30, 45 mg tablet is a generic of Actos, which has been authorised in the 
EU since 13 October 2000. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pioglitazone Actavis 
Group 15, 30, 45 mg tablet and its bioequivalence with the reference product Actos. A question and 
answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pioglitazone Actavis will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
“Pioglitazone  is  indicated  as  second  or  third  line  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  as  described 
below:  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
as monotherapy 
-  in  adult  patients  (particularly  overweight  patients)  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  for 
whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or intolerance. 
Pioglitazone is also indicated for combination with insulin in type 2 diabetes mellitus adult patients with 
insufficient  glycaemic  control  on 
insulin 
for  whom  metformin 
is 
inappropriate  because  of 
contraindications or intolerance. 
After initiation of therapy with pioglitazone, patients should be reviewed after 3 to 6 months to assess 
adequacy of response to treatment (e.g. reduction in HbA1c). In patients who fail to show an adequate 
response, pioglitazone should be discontinued. In light of potential risks with prolonged therapy, 
prescribers should confirm at subsequent routine reviews that the benefit of pioglitazone is 
maintained”. 
Pioglitazone is contraindicated in patients with: 
  hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients 
 
cardiac failure or history of cardiac failure (NYHA stages I to IV) 
  hepatic impairment 
 
 
diabetic ketoacidosis 
current bladder cancer or a history of bladder cancer  
  uninvestigated macroscopic haematuria 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Pioglitazone Actavis and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Pioglitazone Actavis  
EMA/CHMP/508725/2011 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
