30 January 2020 
EMA/32437/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nubeqa 
darolutamide 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nubeqa, 
intended for the treatment of prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bayer AG. 
Nubeqa will be available as 300-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Nubeqa is darolutamide, 
an androgen receptor inhibitor (ATC code: L02BB06) that binds directly to the receptor ligand binding 
domain. 
The benefits with Nubeqa are its ability to delay metastatic disease in patients with non-metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer. The most common side effect is fatigue. 
The full indication is:  
“NUBEQA is indicated for the treatment of adult men with non-metastatic castration resistant prostate 
cancer (nmCRPC) who are at high risk of developing metastatic disease”.  
It is proposed that Nubeqa be prescribed by a specialist physician experienced in treatment of prostate 
cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
