20 October 2011 
EMA/CHMP/752234/2011 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Levetiracetam SUN 
levetiracetam 
On 20 October 2011 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Levetiracetam SUN 100 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the treatment of 
epilepsy. The applicant for this medicinal product is SUN Pharmaceutical Industries Europe B.V. They 
may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Levetiracetam SUN is levetiracetam, an antiepileptic agent (ATC code: 
N03AX14). Levetiracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative chemically unrelated to existing antiepileptic 
active substances. The mechanism of action of levetiracetam still remains to be fully elucidated but 
appears to be different from the mechanisms of current antiepileptic medicinal products. In vitro and in 
vivo experiments suggest that levetiracetam does not alter basic cell characteristics and normal 
neurotransmission.  
Levetiracetam SUN is a generic of Keppra, which has been authorised in the EU since 29 September 
2000. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Levetiracetam SUN and its bioequivalence 
with Keppra. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here.  
The approved indication is as follows:  
Monotherapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy.  
Levetiracetam SUN is indicated as adjunctive therapy: 
 
in the treatment of partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in adults, 
children and infants from 4 years of age with epilepsy.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with Juvenile 
Myoclonic Epilepsy.  
in the treatment of primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures in adults and adolescents from 12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalised Epilepsy. 
Levetiracetam SUN is an alternative for patients when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of data submitted, considers there to be a favourable benefit to risk balance 
for Levetiracetam SUN and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Levetiracetam SUN  
EMA/CHMP/752234/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
