20 July 2023 
EMA/CHMP/321765/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tevimbra 
tislelizumab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tevimbra2, 
intended for the treatment of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Tevimbra will be available as a 100 mg concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Tevimbra is tislelizumab, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01FF09). Tislelizumab is a humanised IgG4 
variant monoclonal antibody that potentiates T cell responses, including anti-tumour responses, through 
blockade of PD-1 binding to PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands. 
The benefit of Tevimbra is an improvement in overall survival in patients with advanced or metastatic 
oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma, as shown in an open-label, randomised phase 3 study comparing 
Tevimbra with ICC. The most common side effect is anaemia. 
The full indication is: 
Tevimbra as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable, 
locally advanced or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior platinum-based 
chemotherapy. 
Tevimbra should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
