24 March 2022 
EMA/CHMP/122713/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Amifampridine SERB 
amifampridine 
On 24 March 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, 
recommending the  granting  of  a marketing  authorisation  for the  medicinal product  Amifampridine SERB, 
intended for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome in adults.  
The applicant for this  medicinal product is SERB SA. 
Amifampridine SERB  will  be  available as  10  mg  tablets.  The  active  substance  of  Amifampridine SERB  is 
amifampridine  (ATC  code:  N07XX05).  Amifampridine  blocks  voltage-dependent  potassium  channels, 
thereby  prolonging  pre-synaptic cell  membrane  depolarisation,  which  enhances  the  transport  of  calcium 
into  the nerve ending. The  resulting increase in  intra-cellular calcium concentrations facilitates  exocytosis 
of acetylcholine-containing vesicles, which in turn enhances neuromuscular transmission. 
Amifampridine SERB is a generic of Firdapse, which has been authorised in the EU since 23 December 2019. 
Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Amifampridine  SERB.  The  applicant  claimed 
Amifampridine  SERB  has  the  same  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  active  substance  and 
excipients, and  the same pharmaceutical form as the  reference medicinal product,  and that  the  medicine 
is manufactured following the same process and at the same manufacturing sites. Therefore, the proposed 
product is considered bioequivalent to the  reference product according to the Guideline of Investigation of 
Bioequivalence, as they are pharmaceutically equivalent and their  bioavailability is univocally the same. A 
question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Symptomatic treatment of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS)  in adults.  
Amifampridine SERB should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the  treatment of the disease.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in  all  official European  Union  languages  after the  marketing  authorisation  has  been granted  by 
the European Commission. 
Amifampridine SERB  
EMA/CHMP/122713/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
