European Medicines Agency  
London, 7 May 2009 
EMEA/CHMP/287662/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
ON 
Novel Influenza (H1N1) outbreak 
Tamiflu (oseltamivir) 
Relenza (zanamivir) 
EMEA/H/A-5.3/1172 
Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
In view of the novel Influenza A (H1N1) outbreak, the Executive Director of the European Medicines 
Agency  (EMEA)  presented  on  30  April  2009,  a  request  for  a  CHMP  opinion  under  Article  5(3)  of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The CHMP opinion was sought on the following: 
(1) 
The potential usability of Tamiflu (oseltamivir) capsules already on the market in the EU 
for  which  the  expiry  date  is  about  to  expire  or  has  already  passed,  taking  into  account 
(a) the  outcome  of  the  ongoing  variation  procedure  to  extend  the  shelf-life  from  5  to 
7 years,  and  (b)  the  exceptional  potential  health  implications  that  may  result  from  a 
shortage  of  oseltamivir  available  in  the  EU.  The  recommendation  should  also  elaborate 
on the conditions to be fulfilled, e.g. in terms of the storage conditions to be adhered to. 
The CHMP should also consider whether it is in a position to provide a recommendation 
regarding the usability of oseltamivir bulk over the extended period. 
(2)  The appropriateness of administering oseltamivir to children younger than 1 year of age 
to treat or prevent the novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. If appropriate, the 
CHMP should make dosing recommendations. 
(3)  The  use  of  oseltamivir  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the  novel 
Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. 
(4)  The  use  of  Relenza  (zanamivir)  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the 
novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic. 
1.2  Steps taken for the procedure 
At the request of the Executive Director, the following was agreed on April 30 2009: 
•  The Rapporteur for Tamiflu, Dr. Outi Lapatto-Reiniluotto, was appointed for the review procedure 
under Article 5(3). 
•  The Rapporteur for Relenza, Dr Bengt Ljungberg was appointed for the review procedure under 
Article 5(3), 
•  Experts from the Paediatric Committee (PDCO) were identified for the review procedure. There 
were the following: Dr. Marta Granstrom, Dr. Ann Marie Kaukonen, Dr. Irja Lutsar, Dr. Gerard 
Pons, Dr. Francesca Rocchi, Dr. Paolo Rossi, Dr. Siri Wang.  
•  Other experts were also identified for the review procedure: Dr. Ingrid Uhnoo, Dr. Regine Lehnert 
and Dr. Elisabeth Elefant. 
•  An eight day time frame for the procedure was set. 
•  The procedure was initiated on 30 April 2009.  
•  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  (MAHs)  for  Tamiflu  and  Relenza,  respectively  Roche 
Registration  Limited  (Roche)  and  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK),  were  informed  of  the  start  of  this 
procedure on the 1st of May 2009.  
•  Roche provided additional information on Tamiflu on the 1st of May 2009. 
•  The  PDCO  experts’  assessment  report  on  the  appropriateness  of  administering  oseltamivir  to 
children younger than 1 year of age to treat or prevent the novel Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a 
pandemic was circulated on 4 May 2009. 
•  The Rapporteur’s overall assessment report was circulated on 4 May 2009.  
•  The assessment report on the use of Relenza was circulated on 5 May 2009. 
•  The Rapporteur’s final assessment report was circulated on 6 May 2009. 
•  On 7 May 2009 the CHMP adopted an Opinion via written procedure. 
2/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Background 
On 27 April 2009 the World Health Organization (WHO) raised the level of influenza pandemic alert 
from the current phase 3 to phase 4 based on the emergence of a new Infuenza A (H1N1) virus and its 
widespread presence in Mexico and the United States of America (USA).  
On  29  April  2009,  the  WHO  raised  the  level  of  influenza  pandemic  alert  to  phase  5,  based  on 
assessment  of  available  information  and  following  expert  consultations.  Advice  was  given  to  all 
countries to activate their pandemic preparedness plans and to monitor unusual outbreaks of influenza-
like illness and severe pneumonia.  
There are presently four antiviral drugs available for treatment of influenza and these belong to two 
classes:  adamantane 
inhibitors 
(oseltamivir and zanamivir). The novel influenza viruses detected in humans in Mexico and USA were 
found to be resistant to amantadine and rimantadine. Laboratory testing however indicated that these 
viruses may be susceptible to oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza). 
inhibitors  (amantadine  and  rimantadine)  and  neuraminidase 
Oseltamivir is a centrally authorised product with a marketing authorisation valid since 20 June 2002. 
Zamivir is authorised via the mutual recognition procedure since June 1999.  
Oseltamivir is indicated in the treatment of influenza in patients one year of age and older who present 
with symptoms typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Oseltamivir 
is  also  indicated  in  post-exposure  prevention  in  individuals  one  year  of  age  or  older.  Oseltamivir  is 
approved as hard capsules and powder for oral suspension. 
Zanamivir  is  indicated  for  treatment  of  influenza  in  patients  above  5  years  of  age  who  present  with 
symptoms  typical  of  influenza  when  influenza  is  circulating  in  the  community.  Zanamivir  is  also 
indicated for post-exposure prevention in individuals 5 years of age or older. Zanamivir is approved as 
oral inhalation powder administered through a Diskhaler device. 
Considering the spread of the novel Influenza A (H1N1) and the potential clinical need in case of a 
declared  pandemic,  the  EMEA  requested  that  dosing  recommendations  in  children  younger  than  1 
year of age for oseltamivir and pregnant and breastfeeding women for both oseltamivir and zanamivir 
should be investigated.  
On 27 April 2009 the MAH for Tamiflu submitted a variation (EMEA/H/C/402/II/65) to extend the 
shelf-life of Tamiflu 75 mg, 45 mg and 30 mg hard capsules from 5 to 7 years. A positive opinion was 
issued by the CHMP on 6 May 2009. 
Considering the data presented and the potential health implications of a shortage of oseltamivir in the 
EU, the EMEA requested that recommendations be given on the use of oseltamivir (finished product 
and bulk) manufactured since May 2002 onwards (for which stability has or will shortly expire).  
The following information was submitted by the MAH for oseltamivir on 1st May 2009 and assessed 
by the CHMP to form the basis of this assessment report: 
-  Drug  safety  report  1032998  which  evaluates  literature,  preclinical  data  and  cases  of  maternal 
exposure recorded in the Roche oseltamivir safety database. 
- Poster presentation describing German retrospective survey – Influenza in Infants – Experience with 
Oseltamivir,  H  Skopnik  and  K.  Siedler,  Klinikum  Worms,  Klinik  fur  Kinder-  und  Jugendmedizin, 
Gabriel-von-Seidl-Straβe 81, D-67550 Worms 
-  Final  Summary  of  Japanese  Retrospective  Surveillance  and  Prospective  Studies  in  Children  Less 
than 1 Year of Age 
3/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Amendment  1  of  Clinical  study  report MV21118 (A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 
study of early oseltamivir treatment of influenza in children 1-3 years of age) 
- NIH/NIAID collaborative antiviral study group (23 April 2009) 
-  Evaluation  sheet  used  to  perform  a  structured  retrospective  analysis  of  the  medical  records  of 
children admitted to Worms Hospital with a diagnosis of influenza and treated with oseltamivir with 
the parents’ fully informed consent over 5 consecutive influenza seasons (2003–2007).  
This assessment report also takes into consideration the Completed NIH Chart Review - CASG 113 
FSR submitted by the MAH in June 2007. 
For  zanamivir,  the  present  assessment  is  based  on  data  available  from  the  recent  renewal,  periodic 
safety  assessment  reports  (PSUR)  and  data  from  the  initial  marketing  authorisation  (non-clinical 
reproduction toxicity studies). No updates on the use of Relenza during pregnancy and lactation were 
received from the MAH of zanamivir in the framework of this Article 5(3) procedure. 
2.2 Question 1 
The  potential  usability  of  Tamiflu  (oseltamivir)  capsules  already  on  the  market  in  the  EU  for 
which  the  expiry  date  is  about  to  expire  or  has  already  passed,  taking  into  account  (a) the 
outcome of the ongoing variation procedure to extend the shelf-life from 5 to 7 years, and (b) the 
exceptional  potential  health  implications  that  may  result  from  a  shortage  of  oseltamivir 
available in the EU. The recommendation should also elaborate on the conditions to be fulfilled, 
e.g. in terms of the storage conditions to be adhered to. The CHMP should also consider whether 
it is in a position to provide a recommendation regarding the usability of oseltamivir bulk over 
the extended period. 
On 27 April 2009 the MAH for Tamiflu submitted a variation (EMEA/H/C/402/II/65) to extend the 
shelf-life of Tamiflu 75 mg, 45 mg and 30 mg hard capsules from 5 to 7 years. A positive opinion was 
issued by the CHMP on 6 May 2009. 
It should be noted that this extension of shelf life to 7 years does not apply to the paediatric suspension 
of  Tamiflu. 
Due to the public health emergency linked to the current risk of pandemic influenza, and based on data 
made available regarding the stability of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir) 30mg, 45mg and 75mg capsules for an 
additional  period  of  2  years,  the  CHMP  recommends  that  boxes  of  Tamiflu  capsules  should  not  be 
discarded where the expiry date has already passed.  For these batches an updated expiry date should 
be determined by adding a further period of 2 years to the stated expiry date. 
The conditions of storage play a role in the stability of medicinal products.  It is of great importance 
that these boxes have always been kept and remains stored below 25oC. 
More detailed instructions concerning the use of capsules for which the expiry date has passed will be 
available in case a pandemic influenza is declared by the WHO in the context of the Novel influenza A 
(H1N1) outbreak. 
With regard to bulk of active substance as stockpiled by some Member States, no specific data have 
been provided in the framework of this Article 5(3) procedure, and therefore assessed by the CHMP. 
The decision to stockpile and use this specific form is the prerogative of the individual Member States 
in accordance with the stability data provided by the MAH. 
4/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 Question 2 
The appropriateness of administering oseltamivir to children younger than 1 year of age to treat 
or  prevent  the  novel  Influenza  A  (H1N1)  in  case  of  a  pandemic.  If  appropriate,  the  CHMP 
should make dosing recommendations. 
Amongst  the  set  of  data  submitted  by  Roche  in  the  framework  of  this  Article  5(3)  procedure,  2 
documents have been assessed: the drug safety report 1032998 which evaluates literature, preclinical 
data and cases of maternal exposure recorded in the Roche oseltamivir safety database, and the poster 
presentation describing German retrospective survey.  
-  Data  from  the  ongoing NIH study “A Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic and Safety Evaluation 
of Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) for the Treatment of Children Less Than 24 Months of Age with Confirmed 
Influenza Infection (CASG 114)” was assessed by the CHMP. 
This study is a prospective, age-stratified pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic and safety evaluation of 
oseltamivir  therapy  in  children  less  than  24  months  of  age  with  confirmed  influenza  infection. 
Between 48 and 108 infants with confirmed influenza are expected to be enrolled into one of five age 
cohorts see table 1 below. At study onset, Cohort II and III will be enrolled simultaneously. Cohorts 
IV and V will be enrolled sequentially by decreasing age groups, predicated upon the pharmacokinetic 
and  safety  data  from  the  preceding  cohort.  The  oldest  cohort  (Cohort  I),  which  falls  under  the 
marketed indication for oseltamivir treatment, may be enrolled at any time during the study.  
The table 1 below summarises the enrolment scheme. 
Summary of Trial to Date (April 2009): 
Cohort I – N=11 (enrolled) 
Cohort IIA – N=7 (closed) 
Cohort IIB – N=3 (enrolled) 
Cohort III – N=15 (closed) 
Cohort IV – N=4  
Cohort V - (not open) 
5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forty (40) subjects have been enrolled on the study as of 23 April 2009. It should be noted that this 
study  is  still  ongoing  and  only  a  very  short  interim  report  is  available.  No  children  between  0  and 
3 months  of  age  are  yet  included.  Furthermore  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  the  data  is  still 
premature. However some interim information can be used here. 
Demographic Assessments 
Sixty-three (63) percent (25 of 40) are male, and fifty-eight (58) percent (23 of 40) are Caucasian. The 
median symptom duration (confirmed diagnosis of influenza) prior to enrolment ranged from 2 days to 
4 days. 
Two  (2)  patients  have  withdrawn  from  the  study  prior  to  completion.  One  (1)  withdrew  after  the 
second  dose  of  oseltamivir  due  to  hypersensitivity  reaction.  The  other  stopped  medication  and  the 
parents withdrew consent on Day 4 of dosing. 
Six  (6)  patients  have  reported  serious  adverse  events  (AEs)  during  their  study  participation.    These 
events  included:  influenza  (in  2  patients),  hypersensitivity  with  rash  and  difficulty  breathing, 
pneumonia, pyrexia, and decreased oxygen saturation (in 1 each).  The event of hypersensitivity was 
considered  to  be  related  to  study  drug;  all  other  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  were  considered  not 
related.  Most were thought to be consistent with the underlying influenza infection.   
A  total  of  57  AEs  have  been  reported  among  26  patients.    One  (1)  patient  experienced  neutropenia 
(Grade  4  absolute  neutrophil  count  (ANC)  not  accompanied  by  other  clinical  symptoms)  which 
resolved spontaneously without interruption of study drug. Five (5) patients were diagnosed with otitis 
media  (OM)  (4  in  Cohort  III  and  one  in  Cohort  II  A).  The  most  common  AEs  reported  were 
gastrointestinal  events;  8  patients  reported  vomiting,  3  reported  diarrhoea,  and  one  each  reported 
flatulence  and  teething.  One  (1)  patient  experienced  urticaria  but  11  reported  less  severe  skin 
disorders.  Three  (3)  of  the  gastrointestinal  AEs  were  considered  related  to  study  drug  but  all  other 
events were considered not related. 
-  Poster  presentation  describing  German  retrospective  study:  Poster  presentation  describing 
German retrospective survey – Influenza in Infants – Experience with Oseltamivir, H Skopnik and K. 
Siedler,  Klinikum  Worms,  Klinik  fur  Kinder-  und  Jugendmedizin,  Gabriel-von-Seidl-Straβe  81,  D-
67550 Worms 
This  poster  presentation  described  a  retrospective  analysis  of  data  from  157  infants  <  1  year  of  age 
who received oseltamivir 2 mg/kg BID during the flu seasons of 2003-2007. This survey identified all 
infants  presenting  with  fever  >  38.0o  C  and  at  least  3 influenza  like  symptoms  such  as  rhinitis, 
pharyngitis, cough, general ill appearance, and sudden onset of symptoms. Patients positive in rapid 
influenza testing were hospitalised and treated with oseltamivir 2 mg/kg BID. Duration of fever after 
therapy start was used as the primary criterion for analysis of oseltamivir efficacy. 
As noted, 157 infants were included in the study: 45% male, mean age 6.2 months (+/- 3.2 months).  
Of the patients who had siblings at home, 34/90 (37%) siblings reported influenza symptoms within 
one week of the patient’s admission.  Most infants did not report underlying medical conditions: 7 had 
pre-existing  cardiovascular  disease,  6  had  pre-existing  pulmonary  disease,  and  2  had  pre-existing 
dermatologic  disease.    Eight  (8)  infants  were  diagnosed  with  concomitant  pneumonia,  7  had 
concomitant seizures, 2 had concomitant RSV infection, 1 had meningococcal meningitis, and 1 had 
enteritis due to salmonella.  Overall, 10 infants had secondary infections requiring antibiotic treatment. 
It  was  not  clear  from  the  report  submitted  if  the  “concomitant”  conditions  represent  conditions 
diagnosed at baseline or if they developed during treatment. 
The  most  common  presenting  symptoms  in  this  cohort  of  infants  were:    rhinitis  (85%),  pharyngitis 
(84%),  cough  (66%),  feeding  difficulties  (40%),  otitis  (24%),  conjunctivitis  (18%),  and  vomiting 
(16%).    Wheezing,  sepsis-like  illness,  enteritis,  tonsillitis,  febrile  seizure,  and  stridor  were  each 
reported  in  <  10%  of  patients.    Resolution  of  fever  to  <  37o  C  occurred  in  128/157  (82%)  within 
36 hours  of  beginning  oseltamivir  treatment  and  in  136  (87%)  within  48  hours.    Oseltamivir  was 
reported  to  be  well-tolerated  although  vomiting  during  treatment  was  reported  in  62  infants  and 
6/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diarrhoea  was  reported  in  34  infants.  These  events  were  reported  to  be  mild  and  did  not  require 
intervention.   
The authors concluded that “Oseltamivir carboxylate in infants proved to be as effective and safe as in 
older children….Since infants are particularly vulnerable to influenza the approval of oseltamivir for 
this age group health authorities is desirable.”  
Two (2) other studies had already been assessed previously by the CHMP and therefore have not been 
evaluated  in  this  assessment  report  although  the  previous  conclusions  were  revisited  and  considered 
for the purpose of this review. 
These 2 studies are the following: 
-  The  Japanese Retrospective Surveillance in Children Less than 1 Year of Age 
Substantial use of oseltamivir in young children below the age of 1 year has been reported in Japan.  
As a result, a retrospective surveillance study was conducted in young infants who were administered 
oseltamivir  during  the  influenza  season  of  2003-2004.  Of  the  834  cases  collected  under  the 
surveillance, 771 of them were found eligible for safety analysis. Diarrhoea was the most frequently 
reported event. No serious adverse drug reactions were recorded.  
A prospective survey of the use of oseltamivir in children aged <1 year of age was also undertaken in 
the 2004-2005 influenza season in Japan. A total of 1771 cases were collected under the surveillance, 
and 1674 of them were found eligible for safety analysis. Eighty-two percent (82%) of these children 
were  aged  6-12  months.  The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  in  the  oseltamivir  group  were 
diarrhoea, upper respiratory tract inflammation, vomiting and rash. Data from these retrospective and 
prospective  analyses  indicate  that  no  new  safety  signals  are  emerging  associated  with  the  use  of 
oseltamivir in children <1 year of age. However, further studies are warranted to confirm the safety of 
oseltamivir  in  children  <1  year  of  age.  A  prospective  study  evaluating  the  pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics and safety of oseltamivir in children 0-24 months of age is planned.  
In  May  2007,  in  the  framework  of  the  first  renewal  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  the  CHMP 
concluded that the data submitted did not suggest that the use of oseltamivir increases the incidence of 
adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  or  adverse  events  related  to  the  central  nervous  system  in 
children  younger  than  1  year  of  age,  and  therefore  no  new  major  concerns  about  the  safety  of 
oseltamivir  in  infants  younger  than  1  year  of  age  had  emerged.  However,  the  data  were  then 
insufficient to rule out serious but infrequently occurring adverse events.  
-  The Completed NIH Chart Review - CASG 113 FSR submitted by the MAH in June 2007. 
In 2007, the MAH submitted a retrospective chart review (Study CASG 113) designed to assess the 
safety  of  oseltamivir  as  a  treatment  for  influenza  in  children  less  than  12  months  of  age  in  the  US. 
From 15 medical centers, 180 patients were enrolled.  
The  primary  study  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  frequency  of  neurological  adverse  events  among 
children  less  than  12  months  of  age  who  received  antiviral  therapy  as  a  treatment  for  suspected  or 
laboratory  diagnosed  influenza  (oseltamivir  versus  amantadine  or  rimantadine).  The  most frequently 
reported adverse event was”irritability”. During treatment with oseltamivir, 13 infants reported a new 
symptom  of  “irritable”  than  at  baseline  (n  =  21).  No  other  significant  neurological  disorders  were 
observed.  
The  secondary  objective  of  the  review  was  to  describe  the  frequency  of  all  adverse  events  among 
children  less  than  12  months  who  were  administered  oseltamivir,  amantadine  or  rimantadine  and  to 
compare the frequency of adverse events at various doses of oseltamivir when administered to children 
less than 12 months. There was a notable increase of “gastro-intestinal disorders”, such as vomiting. 
At  baseline,  14  infants  reported  to  have  vomiting,  whereas  a  new  symptom  of  vomiting  during 
treatment with oseltamivir was reported in 9 infants. Vomiting is a known and labelled side effect of 
oseltamivir. One subject with a history of failure to thrive died within 30 days of initiating the antiviral 
medication. 
7/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, the proportion of babies with any neurologic event was not statistically different between 
the treatment groups (p=0.13). Review of the adverse events observed in other system organ classes 
indicated a favourable safety profile with the antivirals used in this paediatric population. 
In  February  2008,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  most  common  adverse  events,  probably  related  to 
medication, were irritability and vomiting. Neurologic adverse events during treatment reported were 
irritability  (n=13),  agitation  (n=1),  hypertonia  (n=1),  hypotonia  (n=2),  seizures  (n=1).  Neurologic 
adverse events were rare and not statistically significant between treatment groups. From the report, it 
could  be  concluded  that  oseltamivir  did  not  cause  unknown  safety  problems  in  children  below 
12 months of age. 
Two (2) safety studies (the German poster and the Japanese retrospective study) have used a dose of 
2 mg/kg in children below 1 year of age and showed that oseltamivir was well tolerated.  
It  is  acknowledged  that  limited  data  are  available  supporting  the  use  of  Tamiflu  in  children  below 
1 year of age. However considering the urgent need for recommendations to treat this population in 
case  of  a  pandemic  influenza  is  declared  by  the  WHO  in  the  context  of  the  Novel  influenza  A 
(H1N1) outbreak, the CHMP recommends: 
1.  To treat children below 1 year of age with Tamiflu .. 
2.  The appropriate dosage to treat children below 1 year of age is 2-3mg/kg twice daily during 5 days. 
3.  The post-exposure prophylaxis of children below 1 year of age should be very carefully considered 
by prescribers. If it is decided to prescribe Tamiflu to prevent influenza for children below 1 year 
of age who have been exposed to the virus, the appropriate dose should be 2-3mg/kg once a day 
during 10 days. 
4.  The paediatric suspension or dilution of the capsules of tamiflu can be used to prepare the dose in 
children below 1 year of age. 
5.  Children  below  1  year  of  age  should  be  treated  under  medical  supervision.  However  in  case  of 
pandemic  influenza,  this  recommendation  could  potentially  place  huge  burden  on  hospital 
resources and therefore, the CHMP strongly recommends that at least children below 3 months of 
age are treated under medical supervision in hospital. 
2.4 Question 3  
The use of oseltamivir during pregnancy and lactation to treat or prevent the novel Influenza A 
(H1N1) in case of a pandemic 
The current product information includes the following text in Section 4.6 Pregnancy and Lactation  
There are no adequate data from the use of oseltamivir in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal or postnatal 
development  (see  section  5.3).  Oseltamivir  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  the 
potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
In  lactating  rats,  oseltamivir  and  the  active  metabolite  are  excreted  in  the  milk.  It  is  not  known 
whether  oseltamivir  or  the  active  metabolite  are  excreted  in  human  milk.  Oseltamivir  should  be 
used during breast-feeding only if the potential benefit for the mother justifies the potential risk for 
the breast-fed infant. 
This  reflects  that  oseltamivir  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  or  breast-feeding  unless  the 
potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the foetus or breast-fed infant.  
It is noted that data are available from animal studies, which do not indicate direct or indirect harmful 
effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal or postnatal development. In animal reproductive 
studies  in  rats  and  rabbits,  no  teratogenic  effect  was  observed.  Fertility  and  reproductive  toxicity 
studies  have  been  conducted  in  rats.  There  was  no  evidence  of  an  effect  on  fertility  at  any  dose  of 
oseltamivir  studied.  Foetal  exposure  in  rats  and  rabbits  was  approximately  15-20%  of  that  of  the 
mother. 
8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data in lactating rats indicates that oseltamivir and the active metabolite are excreted in the milk. It is 
not  known  whether  oseltamivir  or  the  active  moiety  (Oseltamivir  carboxylate)  is  excreted  in  human 
milk. 
In the framework of this Article 5(3) procedure, the MAH submitted an overview of 232 cases with 
maternal  exposure  to  oseltamivir,  including  12  cases  with  a  foetal  outcome  of  birth  defect/other 
disorder 
-  Description of the data 
The  age  was  unknown  for  81/232  pregnancy  cases  and  3/12  birth  defects/other  disorder  cases.  The 
distribution  by  age  for  the  pregnancy  cases  was  similar  to  what  would  be  expected  for  the  general 
population:  women  in  the  16  to  25  age  group  (32/232  cases)  and  26  to  35  (101/232  cases) 
outnumbered women in the 36 to 45 age group (18/232 cases). There was one case of birth defect in 
the 36 to 45 age group compared to 4 each in the 16-25 and 26-35 age group (see table 2 below] 
The  indications  for  which  oseltamivir  was  used  in  these  pregnancies  were  categorised  as  influenza 
(treatment),  prophylaxis  (of  influenza),  miscellaneous  and  unknown  indication.  The  distribution  of 
cases by category of indication is shown in the table 3 below. 
-  Results 
9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were a total of 416 adverse events in 232 cases with maternal exposure (see the table 4 below 
for  the  cumulative  cases).  The  adverse  events  presented  here  comprise  both  medical  adverse  events 
and events consistent with the normal course of pregnancy. The latter were the majority and comprised 
terms such as pregnancy (119 events), normal newborn (82 events), ‘no adverse reaction’ (169 events) 
and live birth (2 events). 
Most  of  the  medical  adverse  events  occurred  in  patients  with  adverse  pregnancy  (spontaneous  or 
therapeutic  abortions)  or  foetal  outcomes  (birth  defect  or  other  disorder).  The  events  of  apnoea, 
bradycardia,  anaemia,  retinopathy  and  respiratory  distress  were  seen  in  a  premature  baby  with  a 
congenital  hydrocele.  The  events  of  respiratory  failure,  acute  respiratory  distress  syndrome,  blood 
creatinine  phosphokinase-MB  increased,  blood  creatinine  phosphokinase  increased,  blood  lactate 
dehydrogenase  increased,  aspartate  aminotransferase  increased  were  seen  in  one  patient  with  avian 
influenza  who  had  a  pregnancy  outcome  of  spontaneous  abortion  and  a  foetal  outcome  of  other 
disorder.  
The 416 adverse events included 32 serious adverse events seen in 18 cases. Of these, 31 events were 
from 17 cases that had an adverse pregnancy or foetal outcome. 
Adverse events in cases with a foetal outcome of birth defect/other disorder 
Twenty seven (27) events occurred in 12 cases with a foetal outcome of birth defect or other disorder. 
All  adverse  events  that  were  considered  as  anatomic  birth  defects  in  the  cases  with  birth  defect  or 
10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
other  disorder  are  shown  in  the  table  5  below.  Thus  adverse  events  such  as  abortion  induced,  acute 
respiratory distress syndrome and laboratory related adverse events are excluded from the table.  
Overall, 10 birth defects were described in 10 offspring; ventricular septal defect was reported twice, 
all other birth defects only once. 
The overall reporting rates (based on known pregnancy outcomes captured in the safety database) for 
foetal loss (7%) and spontaneous abortions (6.1%) were not higher than the background rates observed 
in literature of 16% and 14.3% respectively. There are, however, some limitations to this comparison. 
There  were  a  total  of  13  of  232  cases  with  therapeutic  abortion.  There  were  13/115  (11.3%) 
therapeutic  abortions  among  all  cases  with  a  known  pregnancy  outcome.  There  were  8  cases  of 
therapeutic abortion among the 44 cases with first trimester exposure to oseltamivir for a reporting rate 
of  18.2%.  These  rates  were  not  higher  than  the  background  rate  (19.1%).  No  association  between 
therapeutic abortion and use of oseltamivir was identified. 
Of the 232 maternal exposure cases, there were 95 with a pregnancy outcome of delivery. In one of 
these  cases,  there  was  a  still  birth.  There  were  therefore  94  live  births,  with  2  premature  deliveries 
(2/94  or  2.12%).  The  background  rate  for  preterm  deliveries  is  1  in  8  live  births  or  12.5%.  The 
reporting  rate  for  premature  deliveries  was  not  greater  than  the  background  rate.  Most  causes  of 
preterm delivery are related to medical and obstetric complications or lifestyle factors. Drugs such as 
ergotamine can cause preterm delivery by a direct pharmacologic effect. Oseltamivir is not known to 
have  any  such  effect.  In  preclinical  studies  in  mice  at  doses  several  fold  higher  than  humans, 
oseltamivir caused a prolongation in parturition. 
As the background rate for birth defects is low, no attempt was made to compute reporting rates for 
individual and overall birth defects in the MAH’s oseltamivir safety database with background rates. 
Instead,  each  case  was  reviewed  individually  to  determine  if  the  timing  for  the  birth  defect  was 
associated with use of oseltamivir and if there was a pattern of birth defects across cases. A single case 
analysis was performed for 10 cases with a birth defect. There were 3 cases (2 cases with ventricular 
septal  defect,  1  case  with  anophthalmos)  where  exposure  to  oseltamivir  occurred  during  the  critical 
period for the birth defect. Ventricular septal defect is a common birth defect with a high background 
rate.  Anophthalmos/  microphthalmos  are  birth  defects  that  are  not  uncommon  in  the  general 
population. 
Furthermore,  microphthalmos  is  associated  with  fever  irrespective  of  influenza.  In  all  3  cases,  the 
patient was exposed to therapeutic doses of oseltamivir. At therapeutic doses, oseltamivir has not been 
detected in the foetal compartment in ex vivo human placental models. Thus, the birth defects did not 
appear to be related to the use of oseltamivir. 
11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no adverse events suggestive of other (foetal) disorders such as low birth weight, small for 
gestational  age  or  intrauterine  growth  retardation.  Other  adverse  events  in  the  foetus/newborn  were 
consistent with preterm labour (the rates for which were not higher than the background rates).  
-  Discussion on the results of this safety report  
A review of the literature indicates that physiological changes caused by pregnancy may increase the 
risk for influenza complications. There is some evidence to suggest that there may be an increased risk 
of foetal loss on exposure to influenza itself in the first trimester. There is the possibility therefore, that 
a  treating  physician  may  want  to  use  oseltamivir  to  treat  influenza  during  pregnancy.  Oseltamivir 
phosphate (OP) is a pro-drug of the active moiety Oseltamivir carboxylate (OC). Theoretically, direct 
toxicity to the foetus may potentially result if either of these substances crosses the placental barrier. 
OP  and  OC  are,  respectively,  substrates  for  the  active  exporters  P-glycoprotein  (P-gP)  and  the 
multidrug resistance protein 4 (MRP 4) in the placenta. It is thus unlikely that significant amounts of 
either  drug  reach  the  foetus  at  therapeutic  doses.  However,  if  genetic  polymorphisms  or  specific 
inhibitors that decrease the activity of these transporters are present, an increase in the concentrations 
of  OP  and/or  OC  in  the  foetus  can  be  expected.  However,  the  clinical  relevance  of  potentially 
increased drug concentrations is unclear. In preclinical studies, no teratogenicity was observed in rats 
and rabbits at doses of 1,500 and 500 mg/kg/day, respectively, despite an estimated foetal exposure in 
these  species  of  about  20%  of  maternal  plasma.  Based  on  experimental  animal  studies,  oseltamivir 
therapy during pregnancy is not expected to increase the risk of congenital anomalies. 
The  risk  from  exposure  in  humans  was  evaluated  by  reviewing  the  MAH’s  oseltamivir  safety 
database. The data was put into context with information on the effect of influenza on pregnancy, the 
background  rates  for  abortions  in  the  general  population,  impact  of  high  fever  on  pregnancy  and 
available pre-clinical data. The cumulative review of the safety database revealed a total of 232 cases 
with  maternal  exposure  to  oseltamivir  (with  416  adverse  events)  with  12  foetal  disorders.  This 
included  all  cases  reported  in  literature  as  well  as  study  cases.  The  most  common  indication  for 
oseltamivir was treatment of influenza. The evaluation of the information does not suggest restrictions 
of the use of oseltamivir in pregnant women. Based on the data presented, the birth defects found in 
this review could not be directly related to oseltamivir. 
Overall, there did not appear to be any evidence to suggest that maternal exposure to oseltamivir was 
associated with adverse pregnancy or foetal outcomes. 
This review seems to show that no new safety risks to foetus are connected to the use of Tamiflu in 
pregnant women. At the moment the statement in section 4.6. of the SPC “Oseltamivir should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  potential  benefit  to  the  mother  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the 
foetus.” remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
However,  the  overall  data  suggest  that  the  benefit  of  using  Tamiflu  in  pregnant  or  breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
2.5 Question 4 
The  use  of  Relenza  (zanamivir)  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  to  treat  or  prevent  the  novel 
Influenza A (H1N1) in case of a pandemic 
The current product information includes the following text in Section 4.6 Pregnancy and Lactation  
Pregnancy: The safe use of Relenza during pregnancy has not been established.  
In rats and rabbits zanamivir has been shown to cross the placenta. High doses of zanamivir were 
not  associated  with  malformations  in  rats  or  rabbits  and  only  minor  alterations  were  reported.  
The  potential  risk  for  humans  is  unknown.   Relenza  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy  unless  the 
expected benefit to the mother is thought to outweigh any possible risk to the foetus. 
Lactation: In rats zanamivir has been shown to be secreted into milk. There is no information on 
secretion into breast milk in humans. 
The use of zanamivir is not recommended in mothers who are breast feeding. 
12/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Non-clinical aspects 
Zanamivir  is  not  metabolised  and  approximately  20%  of  an  oral  inhaled  dose  of  zanamivir  can  be 
accounted  for  in  urine  as  unchanged  parent  drug.  The  remaining  portion  of  the  oral  inhaled  dose 
(approximately 80%) is unchanged material unabsorbed from the gastro intestinal tract and is excreted 
in  faeces.  At  a  dose  of  10  mg  bid  in  humans,  AUC  levels  in  the  range  of  0.5  μg.h/ml  have  been 
recorded with maximum plasma levels ranging from 0.03 to 0.1 μg/ml. 
Standard reproduction toxicology studies are available. These were conducted in relation to the first 
marketing  authorisation  in  1999  and  included  studies  in  rat  and  rabbits  using  the  intravenous 
administration route, see table 6 below.  
Dose/Route/Duration 
Major Findings 
Table 6 
Study Type/Study ID 
Preliminary Segment II 
(WPT/93/013) 
Segment II 
(WPT/93/047) 
Species, 
No./sex/group 
Rat  
(10 ♀) 
Rat  
(28 ♀) 
0, 1, 9, 90 mg/kg, IV 
day 6-day 15 of pregnancy 
0, 1, 9, 90 mg/kg, IV 
day 6-day 15 of pregnancy 
Segment II 
(WPT/93/095) 
Rabbit 
(17-18 ♀) 
0, 1, 9, 90 mg/kg, IV 
day 7-day 19 of pregnancy 
No effects on F0 or F1 generation. 
Preimplantation loss ↑, not stat. sign.
No effects on F0 or F1. 
Implantations, live foetuses, foetal 
weights unaffected. 
Post-implantation loss ↑ (MD-HD). 
Mean foetal bw. ↓ (HD) 
Pharmacokinetic studies did not indicate any differences in the disposition of the drug in pregnant and 
non-pregnant  rat.  In  rats,  low  amounts  of  radiolabelled  material  appeared  to  cross  the  placenta.  In 
rabbits, drug-related material crossed the placenta and was widely distributed in foetuses. Zanamivir 
was excreted into milk of lactating rats and levels in milk were higher than in plasma. 
Maximum  plasma  levels  of  up  to  2000-3000  times  the  clinical  level  were  achieved  in  these  studies.  
However,  levels  of  zanamivir  rapidly  decline  in  plasma  indicative  of  possible  treatment  interruption 
occurring during critical periods of organogenesis. A sustained exposure was achieved in rabbits while 
rats seemed to have been exposed only during a few hours per day. Systemic exposure data from these 
studies  are  not  available,  but  data  from  other  rat  studies  at  an  intravenous  dose  of  90 mg/kg/day 
indicated levels approximately x300 the estimated human dose.  
The  compound  at  doses  of  up  to  90  mg/kg  intravenously  was  devoid  of  any  effects  on  fertility 
parameters. 
There  were  no  findings  in  Segment  II  studies  considered  related  to  zanamivir  treatment.  A  dose-
related increase in the mean % foetuses/litter with visceral anomalies was noted, but the differences in 
incidences  were  not  statistically  significant.  In  rabbits,  post-implantation  loss  was  increased  at  the 
mid- and high dose, but again a statistical significance was not evident and the apparent increase may 
have reflected the lower number of control animals. Foetal body weights appeared lower. In one high 
dose animal study indicated minor skeletal changes and variants were reported, but the increase was 
not  significantly  different  from  controls.  Overall,  considering  historical  control  data,  the  pattern, 
frequency  and  distribution  of  malformations  and  anomalies  among  foetuses  and  litters  in  different 
groups, no effects related to zanamivir treatment were evident.  
Overall,  non-clinical  data  do  not  indicate  any  relevant  concerns  for  the  safe  use  of  zanamivir 
inhalation powder during pregnancy and lactation. Although excretion into breast milk seems to occur, 
maternal systemic exposure levels are low after inhalation of zanamivir and there would be only very 
low  amount  of  systemic  zanamivir  available  for  excretion  into  breast  milk.  Further,  animal  studies 
have shown that zanamivir has a low potential for toxicity by the oral route. 
-  Clinical data 
13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the data covering the period from 1 August 2003 to 31 January 2008 there was a total of 16 adverse 
events  reported,  2  of  which  were  serious  unlisted  (premature  baby=2)  and  14  were  non-serious, 
unlisted including delivery. 
In  the  data  covering  the  period  from  1  February  2008  to  July  2008  13  cases  possibly  related  to 
administration of zanamivir were observed. 
In the PSUR covering the reporting period 01 August 2008 to 31 January 2009 were 97 cases reported 
possibly related to administration during pregnancy (n=52) or lactation (n=45). Pregnancy outcomes 
for the current reporting period and cumulative totals are summarised in the table (below). No serious 
unlisted or listed adverse events were identified (see table 7 below). 
Table 7 Pregnancy Outcomes 
Outcome1, 2  
In Period 
(n=52) 
Live infant, no apparent congenital 
anomaly3  
1 
Cumulative 
(n=133) 
434,5,6 
Live infant with congenital anomaly 
Elective termination, no apparent 
congenital 
anomaly3 
Elective termination with congenital 
anomaly 
Spontaneous abortion, no apparent 
congenital 
anomaly3 
Spontaneous abortion with congenital 
anomaly 
Stillbirth, no apparent congenital 
anomaly3 
Stillbirth with congenital anomaly 
Ectopic pregnancy 
Molar pregnancy 
Pregnancy ongoing, lost to follow-up 
or unknown 
Total 
51 
52  
2 
4 
1 
83 
133 
1. The number of pregnancy outcomes may not match the number of cases in Appendix 5E due to the nature of the 
search strategy used for the narratives; 
2. Changes in the numbers of the cumulative outcomes since the previous safety update reflect not only the addition 
of new cases but also follow-up obtained on previously received cases; 
3. Pregnancy outcome categories stating ‘no apparent congenital anomaly’ include outcomes where it is unknown 
whether a congenital anomaly occurred. 
4. The baby’s first exposure to zanamivir was in utero, in the third trimester, 5 days prior to delivery. Three days after 
the birth, the baby developed convulsions which were considered possibly related to Zanamivir by the reporting 
physician. The event resolved following treatment with phenobarbital. 
5. In one case the infant exhibited decreased motion and strength of upper extremities. 
6. A sick infant was born through emergency caesarean section. The patient eventually died (approximately 17 
weeks after birth) and the cause of death was chronic lung disease and influenzae A pneumonia. 
No  new  important  safety  information  regarding  use  in  pregnancy  has  been  identified.  No  serious 
unlisted or listed adverse events were reported. 
14/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning  lactation,  while  zanamivir  may  be  excreted  in  breast  milk  the  systemic  levels  after 
inhalation  would  be  low  and  the  low  oral  toxicity  would  suggest  that  exposure  of  infants  via  the 
gastrointestinal tract should not prevent the use of Relenza during lactation.  
Clinical experience with the use of Relenza during pregnancy and lactation is very limited. Zanamivir 
should not be used in pregnancy unless the expected benefit to the mother is thought to outweigh any 
possible  risk  to  the  foetus.  Pregnant  women  were  excluded  from  the  clinical  studies  and  use  of 
zanamivir  in  this  group  has  not  been  established.  Since  the  systemic  exposure  to  zanamivir  is  very 
limited,  it  might  be  the  preferred  choice  for  treatment/  prophylaxis  of  influenza  during  pregnancy.  
However, in cases of suspected systemic virus infection oseltamivir might be preferred choice due to 
its systemic activity. 
No new safety risks to foetuses were identified in the current review. 
A benefit-risk analysis should also take into consideration that influenza in itself in pregnant women 
during the first trimester has been reported to include adverse effects such as hyperthermia that may 
double the risk for neural tube defects and may be related to birth defect.  
At  the  moment  the  statement  in  section  4.6.  of  the  SPC  “Relenza  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy 
unless  the  expected  benefit  to  the  mother  is  thought  to  outweigh  any  possible  risk  to  the  foetus.” 
remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
Zanamivir has in animal studies been shown to cross the placenta and to be secreted in breast milk. 
The non-clinical data are not indicative of any relevant cause for concerns regarding the safe use of 
Relenza at recommended doses. 
Taken together the overall data suggest that the benefit of using Relenza in pregnant or breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
3 
OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONS 
Due to the public health emergency linked to the current risk of pandemic influenza, and based on data 
made available regarding the stability of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir) 30mg, 45mg and 75mg capsules for an 
additional  period  of  2  years,  the  CHMP  recommends  that  boxes  of  Tamiflu  capsules  should  not  be 
discarded where the expiry date has already passed.  For these batches an updated expiry date should 
be determined by adding a further period of 2 years to the stated expiry date.  
The conditions of storage play a role in the stability of medicinal products.  It is of great importance 
that these boxes have always been kept and remains stored below 25oC. 
It  is  acknowledged  that  limited  data  are  available  supporting  the  use  of  Tamiflu  in  children  below 
1 year of age. However considering the urgent need for recommendations to treat this population in 
case  of  a  pandemic  influenza  is  declared  by  the  WHO  in  the  context  of  the  Novel  influenza  A 
(H1N1) outbreak, the CHMP recommends: 
1. To treat children below 1 year of age with Tamiflu. 
2. The appropriate dosage to treat children below 1 year of age is 2-3mg/kg twice daily during 5 days. 
3. The post-exposure prophylaxis of children below 1 year of age should be very carefully considered 
by prescribers. If it is decided to prescribe Tamiflu to prevent influenza for children below 1 year of 
age who have been exposed to the virus, the appropriate dose should be 2-3mg/kg once a day during 
10 days. 
4. The paediatric suspension or dilution of the capsules of tamiflu can be used to prepare the dose in 
children below 1 year of age. 
5.  Children  below  1  year  of  age  should  be  treated  under  medical  supervision.  However  in  case  of 
pandemic  influenza,  this  recommendation  could  potentially  place  huge  burden  on  hospital  resources 
15/16 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and therefore, the CHMP strongly recommends that at least children below 3 months of age are treated 
under medical supervision in hospital. 
This review seems to show that no new safety risks to foetus are connected to the use of Tamiflu in 
pregnant women. At the moment the statement in section 4.6. of the SPC “Oseltamivir should not be 
used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  potential  benefit  to  the  mother  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the 
foetus.” remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
However,  the  overall  data  suggest  that  the  benefit  of  using  Tamiflu  in  pregnant  or  breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
At  the  moment  the  statement  in  section  4.6.  of  the  SPC  “Relenza  should  not  be  used  in  pregnancy 
unless  the  expected  benefit  to  the  mother  is  thought  to  outweigh  any  possible  risk  to  the  foetus.” 
remains valid for seasonal influenza epidemics.  
Zanamivir has in animal studies been shown to cross the placenta and to be secreted in breast milk. 
The non-clinical data are not indicative of any relevant cause for concerns regarding the safe use of 
Relenza at recommended doses. 
Taken together the overall data suggest that the benefit of using Relenza in pregnant or breastfeeding 
women outweighs the risk in the context of a  novel influenza (H1N1) in a pandemic situation. 
16/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
