14 April 2011 
EMA/CHMP/295853/2011  
Committee for medicinal products for h
uman use (CHMP) 
Summary
 of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Avastin 
(bevacizumab) 
On 14 April 2011 the Committee for M
edicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisat
ion for the medicinal 
product Avastin. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is
 Roche Registration 
Ltd. They may request a re-examinati
on of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the o
pinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Avastin in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of 
patients with 
metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options 
including taxanes or 
anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. 
Patients who have received taxane and anthracycline-contai
ning regimens in the adjuvant setting 
within the last 12 months should be excluded from treatment with Avastin in combination with 
capecitabine.  For further information about HER2 status, refer to section 5.1".
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated su
mmary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised Europe
an public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Avastin will be as follows : 
2
Avastin (bevacizumab) in combination with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for 
treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. 
Avastin in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of patients with metastatic 
breast cancer. For further information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
Avastin in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treat
ment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options in
cluding 
taxanes or anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. Patients who
 have received taxane 
and anthracycline-containing regimens in the adjuvan
t setting within the last 12 months 
should be excluded from treatment with Avastin in combination with cap
ecitabine. For 
further information as to HER2 status, please refer to section 5.1.
Avastin, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of patients 
with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cance
r other than 
predominantly squamous cell histology
. 
Avastin in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first line treatment of patients with 
advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. 
Avastin 
EMA/CHMP/295853/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
  
 
