22 June 2017  
EMA/364961/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Maviret 
glecaprevir / pibrentasvir 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Maviret, 
intended for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Maviret was reviewed under EMA’s 
accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is AbbVie Ltd. 
Maviret is a fixed dose combination (FDC) of two direct acting-antivirals (DAA), glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir (ATC code not yet assigned). It will be available as film-coated tablets containing 100 mg 
glecaprevir and 40 mg pibrentasvir. Glecaprevir is an inhibitor of the HCV NS3/4A protease, while 
pibrentasvir is an inhibitor of the HCV NS5A protein. Both proteins are essential for HCV replication. 
The benefits with Maviret are that it is highly effective against all genotypes of HCV and can be used in 
patients with severe renal impairment, including in those on dialysis.   
The most common side effects are headache and fatigue.  
The full indication is: "Maviret is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in 
adults". 
It is proposed that Maviret be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of patients with 
chronic hepatitis C.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
