18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/476872/2014  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Clopidogrel ratiopharm 
clopidogrel 
On 18 December 2014 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Clopidogrel ratiopharm, 75 mg, film-coated tablet intended for prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in adult patients suffering from myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, established peripheral arterial 
disease or acute coronary syndrome and for prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic 
events in adult patients with atrial fibrillation. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Clopidogrel ratiopharm is clopidogrel (as clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate) a non-
competitive inhibitor of platelet aggregation (ATC code B01AC04).  Clopidogrel is a prodrug, it must be 
metabolised by CYP450 enzymes to produce the active metabolite that selectively inhibits the binding 
of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to its platelet P2Y12 receptor and the subsequent ADP-mediated 
activation of the glycoprotein GPIIb/IIIa complex - thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation. 
Clopidogrel ratiopharm is a generic of Plavix, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 July 1998. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Clopidogrel ratiopharm, and its bioequivalence 
with the reference product Plavix. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Clopidogrel ratiopharm will be implemented as part of the marketing 
authorisation.  
The approved indication is:  
Prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
•  Adult  patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
•  Adult patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically treated 
patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
and  
Prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation in: 
•  Adult patients with atrial fibrillation who have at least one risk factor for vascular events, are not 
suitable for treatment with Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) and who have a low bleeding risk, 
clopidogrel is indicated in combination with ASA for the prevention of atherothrombotic and 
thromboembolic events, including stroke. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Clopidogrel Ratiopharm and therefore recommends the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
Clopidogrel ratiopharm  
EMA/CHMP/476872/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
