24 June 2010 
EMA/CHMP/390850/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ibandronic Acid Teva 
ibandronic acid   
On 24 June 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ibandronic 
Acid Teva 50mg and 150mg film-coated tablets intended for the prevention of skeletal events in 
patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (50mg) and the treatment of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture (150mg).The applicant for this medicinal product 
is TEVA Pharma B.V.  
They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Ibandronic Acid Teva is ibandronic acid, third generation bisphosphonate which 
inhibits bone resorption.  
 The approved indication is: “Ibandronic Acid Teva is indicated for the prevention of skeletal events 
(pathological fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast 
cancer and bone metastases” for the 50mg and “Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women 
at increased risk of fracture (see section 5.1). A reduction in the risk of vertebral fractures has been 
demonstrated, efficacy on femoral neck fractures has not been established” for the 150mg. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ibandronic Acid Teva and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
