23 April 2015 
EMA/CHMP/272298/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Levemir 
insulin detemir 
On 23 April 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Levemir. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
The CHMP adopted a change in the way the medicine can be used, as reflected in the updated section 4.2 
of the SmPC as follows:2 
"Levemir can be used alone as the basal insulin or in combination with bolus insulin. It can also be used 
in combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products and/or GLP-1 receptor agonists or as add-on 
therapy to liraglutide. 
In combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products and as add-on to liraglutide When Levemir is 
used in combination with oral antidiabetic medicinal products or when added to GLP-1 
receptor agonists it is recommended to use Levemir once daily, initially at a dose of 10 units or 0.1-
0.2 units/kg. The dose of Levemir should be titrated based on the individual patient’s needs.  
When a GLP-1 receptor agonist is added to Levemir, it is recommended to reduce the dose of 
Levemir by 20% to minimise the risk of hypoglycaemia. Subsequently, dosage should be 
adjusted individually." 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold, removed text as strikethrough 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
