European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/771751/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RISTABEN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin 
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Ristaben,  25  mg,  50  mg    and  100  mg,  film-coated  tablet  intended  for  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Ristaben  is  sitagliptin,  an  Dipeptidyl  peptidase-4  (DPP-4)  inhibitor,  ATC 
code : A10BH01. DPP-4 inhibition reduces the cleavage and inactivation of the active (intact) form of 
the  incretin  hormones,  including  glucagon-like  peptide  1  (GLP-1)  and  glucose  dependent  inhibitory 
peptide (GIP), producing an elevation of incretin concentrations that lead to enhancement of glucose-
dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon release. 
The  benefit  of  Ristaben  is  a  demonstrated  reduction  in  baseline  HbA1c  at  24  weeks  in  combination 
with  metformin,  or  a  PPARγ  agonist,  or  a  sulphonylurea,  or  a  sulphonylurea  and  metformin,  or  a 
metformin and PPARγ agonist (54 weeks study), or a insulin with or without metformin. It has also 
shown  a  reduction  in  fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG).  The  most  common  side  effect  when  taking 
Ristaben with metformin is nausea. When taking Ristaben with pioglitazone, they are low blood sugar, 
flatulence and foot swelling. The most common side effect when taking Ristaben with a sulfonylurea 
is low blood sugar. When taking Ristaben with metformin and a sulfonylurea the most common side 
effects  are  low  blood  sugar  and  constipation.  When  taking  Ristaben  with  metformin  and  PPARγ 
agonist  the  most  common  side  effects  are  headache,  vomiting,  low  blood  sugar,  foot  swelling  and 
diarrhoea. When taking Ristaben alone, the most common side effects are low blood sugar, headache, 
stuffy or runny nose and sore throat. When taking Ristaben with insulin with or without metformin the 
most  common  side  effects  are  headache,  low  blood  sugar  and  infuenza.  Additional  adverse 
experiences reported regardless of causal relationship to medication that occurred more frequently in 
patients  treated  with  Ristaben  included  osteoarthritis  and  pain  in  extremity.  During  post-marketing 
experience  of  the  reference  product  the  following  additional  side  effects  have  been  reported 
(frequency not known): hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, 
cutaneous  vasculitis,  and  exfoliative  skin  conditions 
including  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome, 
pancreatitis. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of 
the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ristaben, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “For  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  Ristaben  is  indicated  to 
improve glycaemic control: 
as monotherapy 
•  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  by  diet  and  exercise  alone  and  for  whom  metformin  is 
inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
as dual oral therapy in combination with 
• metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
• a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications 
or intolerance. 
• a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet 
and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
as triple oral therapy in combination with 
• a sulphonylurea and metformin when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
• a PPARγ agonist and metformin when use of a PPARγ agonist is appropriate and when diet and 
exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Ristaben is also indicated as add-on to insulin (with or without metformin) when diet and exercise plus 
stable dosage of insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  reference  product  Januvia, 
considers that there is a favourable benefit to risk balance for Ristaben and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
