10 December 2020               
EMA//CHMP/664344/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Retsevmo 
selpercatinib 
On 10 December 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Retsevmo, intended for the treatment of cancers that display rearranged during transfection (RET) gene 
alterations: RET-fusion positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), RET-fusion positive thyroid cancer 
and RET-mutant medullary-thyroid cancer (MTC). The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
Retsevmo will be available as 40 and 80 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Retsevmo is 
selpercatinib, a RET receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX22), inhibiting wild-type RET 
receptor tyrosine kinase and multiple mutated isoforms. Certain point mutations in RET or chromosomal 
rearrangements involving in-frame fusions of RET with various partners can result in constitutively 
activated chimeric RET fusion proteins that can act as oncogenic drivers by promoting cell proliferation of 
tumour cell lines. 
The benefits with Retsevmo are its objective response rate and response duration in patients with RET-
fusion positive NSCLC or thyroid cancer and RET-mutant MTC who have been previously treated. The 
most common side effects are increased aspartate transaminase, increased alanine transaminase, 
decreased lymphocyte count, dry mouth, increased creatinine, diarrhoea, fatigue, oedema and 
hypertension. 
The full indication is:  
Retsevmo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults with:  
– 
advanced RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who require systemic 
therapy following prior treatment with immunotherapy and/or platinum-based 
chemotherapy 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
– 
advanced RET fusion-positive thyroid cancer who require systemic therapy following prior 
treatment with sorafenib and/or lenvatinib. 
Retsevmo as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adults and adolescents 12 years and 
older with advanced RET mutant medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) who require systemic therapy 
following prior treatment with cabozantinib and/or vandetanib.  
Retsevmo should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the use of anti-cancer 
therapies. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Retsevmo  
EMA/664344/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
