28 January 2016  
EMA/CHMP/15592/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Empliciti 
elotuzumab 
On 28 January 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Empliciti, 
intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Empliciti was designated as an orphan medicinal product 
on 9 August 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
Empliciti will be available as 300 mg and 400 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
active substance of Empliciti is elotuzumab, an immunostimulatory humanised, IgG1 monoclonal antibody 
(ATC code: L01XC) that specifically targets the SLAMF7 (signalling lymphocyte activation molecule family 
member 7) protein, highly expressed on multiple myeloma cells.  
The benefits with Empliciti are its ability to delay the progression of disease and to increase the 
proportion of patients who have a response. The most common adverse reactions (occurring in > 10% of 
patients) with elotuzumab treatment were infusion related reactions, diarrhoea, herpes zoster, 
nasopharyngitis, cough, pneumonia, upper respiratory tract infection, lymphopenia and weight decrease. 
The full indication is: "Empliciti is indicated in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for the 
treatment of multiple myeloma in adult patients who have received at least one prior therapy". It is 
proposed that Empliciti therapy should be initiated and supervised by physicians experienced in the 
treatment of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
