15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/794393/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Pombiliti 
cipaglucosidase alfa 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Pombiliti2, 
intended for the treatment of glycogen storage disease type II (Pompe disease). The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Amicus Therapeutics Europe Limited. 
Pombiliti will be available as a 105 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance 
of Pombiliti is cipaglucosidase alfa, a recombinant human acid α-glucosidase (ATC code: A16AB23), which 
is an enzyme replacement therapy that provides an exogenous source of acid α-glucosidase. 
The benefit of Pombiliti is its ability to improve the motor function (six-minute walk distance) of patients 
with late-onset Pompe disease when used in combination with miglustat. The most common side effects 
are  infusion-associated  reactions  such  as  chills,  dizziness,  urticaria,  flushing,  somnolence,  anaphylaxis, 
chest discomfort, cough, infusion site swelling, and pain. 
The full indication is: 
Pombiliti (cipaglucosidase alfa) is a long-term enzyme replacement therapy used in combination 
with the enzyme stabiliser miglustat for the treatment of adults with late-onset Pompe disease 
(acid α-glucosidase [GAA] deficiency). 
Treatment should be supervised by a physician experienced in the management of Pompe disease or 
other inherited metabolic or neuromuscular diseases. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
