European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMA/CHMP/796967/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MENVEO 
Common Name: Meningococcal Group A, C, W-135 and Y Coniugate Vaccine  
On  17  December  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Menveo,  MenA-CRM197,  MenC-  CRM197,  MenW135-  CRM197  and  MenY-  CRM197  (Meningococcal 
groups A, C, W and Y oligosaccharides Conjugated to Corynebacterium diphtheriae CRM197 Protein) 
powder and solution for injection intended for the active immunization of adolescents (from 11 years 
of age) and adults at risk of exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y, to prevent 
invasive disease. The use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. 
The active substance of Menveo is a Meningococcal Group A, C, W-135 and Y Coniugate Vaccine, 
belongs  to  the  therapeutic  group  of  Meningococcal  vaccines  (ATC  code:  J07AH).  The  efficacy  of 
Menveo has been inferred by measuring the production of serogroup-specific anti-capsular antibodies 
with bactericidal activity. Serum bactericidal activity (SBA) was measured using human serum as the 
source of exogenous complement (hSBA).  The hSBA was the original correlate of protection against 
meningococcal disease. 
The benefits with Menveo are its ability to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis 
groups A, C, W135 and Y in adolescents (from the age of 11 years old) and adults. The most common 
side effects are pain, erythema and induration, headache, myalgia, chills, and malaise.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Menveo, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: active immunization of adolescents (from 11 years of age) and adults at 
risk of exposure to Neisseria meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y, to prevent invasive disease. The 
use of this vaccine should be in accordance with official recommendations. It is proposed that Menveo 
is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of  invasive  disease  caused  by  Neisseria 
meningitidis groups A, C, W135 and Y.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Menveo and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
