27 September 2010 
EMA/CHMP/444944/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Invega 
paliperidone 
On  27  September  2010,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion  via  written  procedure  recommending  a  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing 
authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Invega.  The  marketing  authorisation  holder  for  this  medicinal 
product  is  Janssen-Cilag  International  N.V.  They  may  request  a  re-examination  of  the  CHMP  opinion, 
provided that they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of 
receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Treatment of psychotic or manic symptoms of schizoaffective disorder. Effect on depressive symptoms 
has not been demonstrated.” 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  new  therapeutic  indication  brings  significant  clinical  benefit  in  the 
absence  of  existing  therapies.  The  Committee  therefore  recommended  that  one  additional  year  of 
marketing protection be granted, in accordance with the provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004. 
Detailed  conditions  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  updated  summary  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC),  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  public  assessment  report 
(EPAR),  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Invega will be as follows2: 
INVEGA is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 
INVEGA is indicated for the treatment of psychotic or manic symptoms of schizoaffective 
disorder. Effect on depressive symptoms has not been demonstrated. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
