16 December 2021 
EMA/CHMP/624105/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tepmetko 
tepotinib 
On 16 December 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Tepmetko, 
intended for the treatment of patients with  advanced non-small cell lung  cancer (NSCLC) harbouring 
alterations leading to mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor gene exon 14  (METex14) skipping.  
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Merck Europe B.V. 
Tepmetko will  be available as 225 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Tepmetko is tepotinib, 
a MET inhibitor  (ATC code: L01EX21) which  blocks MET  phosphorylation and MET-dependent downstream 
signalling. 
The benefits of Tepmetko are its objective response rate and response duration in  patients with  NSCLC 
harbouring alterations leading to METex14  skipping. The most common side effects are oedema (mainly 
peripheral oedema), nausea, hypoalbuminaemia, and diarrhoea. 
The full indication is: 
Tepmetko as monotherapy is indicated for the  treatment of adult pa tients with  advanced non-
small cell lung  cancer (NSCLC) harbouring alterations leading to mesenchymal -epithelial 
transition factor gene exon 14 (METex14) skipping, who require systemic therapy following  prior 
treatment with  immunotherapy and/or platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Tepmetko should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal products. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
