13 December 2018 
EMA/CHMP/862586/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi 
lusutrombopag 
On 13 December 2018, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Lusutrombopag 
Shionogi, intended for the treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in adults with chronic liver disease 
undergoing invasive procedures. The applicant for this medicinal product is Shionogi B.V. 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi will be available as 3 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Lusutrombopag Shionogi is lusutrombopag, a thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist (ATC code: B02BX). 
Lusutrombopag acts on the transmembrane domain of TPO receptors, to induce proliferation and 
differentiation of megakaryocyte progenitor cells, thus leading to thrombocytopoiesis. 
The benefit of Lusutrombopag Shionogi is that it reduces the need for platelet transfusions before the 
primary invasive procedure and for rescue therapy for bleeding during the 7 days after the procedure. The 
most common side effects are headache, nausea, portal vein thrombosis and rash. 
The full indication is: "treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in adult patients with chronic liver disease 
undergoing invasive procedures (see section 5.1)".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
