23 February 2023
EMA/CHMP/60808/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Elfabrio
pegunigalsidase alfa
On  23  February  2023,  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a  positive 
opinion,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Elfabrio2, 
intended for the treatment of Fabry disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici 
S.p.A.
Elfabrio will be available as a 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of Elfabrio 
is pegunigalsidase alfa, a recombinant human α-galactosidase-A (ATC code: A16AB20), which is an enzyme 
replacement therapy that provides an exogenous source of α-galactosidase-A.
The benefit of Elfabrio is its ability to reduce renal disease substrates of Fabry disease, which appeared to 
translate into reduced deterioration of renal function in adults with Fabry disease. The most common side 
effects are infusion-related reactions, hypersensitivity and asthenia.
The full indication is:
Elfabrio is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in adult patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease (deficiency of alpha-galactosidase).
Elfabrio treatment must be managed by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with Fabry 
disease.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
