15 December 2016  
EMA/764254/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Ledaga 
chlormethine 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Ledaga, 
intended for the treatment of mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Ledaga was designated 
as an orphan medicinal product on 22 May 2012. The applicant for this medicinal product is Actelion 
Registration Ltd. 
Ledaga will be available as a 160 µg/g gel. The active substance of Ledage is the antineoplastic chlormethine 
(ATC code: L01AA05), a bifunctional alkylating agent that inhibits rapidly proliferating cells. 
The benefits with Ledaga are its ability to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma lesions leading to resolution of 
skin patches, plaques and tumours. The most common side effects are related to skin adverse reactions such 
as dermatitis, pruritis, skin infections, skin ulceration and blistering, and skin hyperpigmentation. 
Ledaga is a hybrid medicine2 of Caryolysine which has been authorised in the EU since 1946. Ledaga 
contains the same active substance as Caryolysine, but will be available as a gel for cutaneous use. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Ledaga. Since Ledaga is administered as a topical 
agent resulting in no systemic exposure, a bioequivalence study versus the reference product Caryolysine 
was not required. 
The full indication is: "Ledaga is indicated for the topical treatment of mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous 
T-cell lymphoma (MF-type CTCL) in adult patients (see section 5.1)."  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 Hybrid applications rely in part on the results of pre-clinical tests and clinical trials for a reference product and in part on new 
data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
