15 September 2022 
EMA/CHMP/758392/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Sorafenib Accord 
sorafenib 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Sorafenib 
Accord, intended for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and renal cell carcinoma. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Sorafenib Accord will be available as a 200 mg film-coated tablet. The active substance of Sorafenib 
Accord is sorafenib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: L01EX02). It inhibits the activity of targets 
present in tumour cells and in the tumour vasculature.  
Sorafenib Accord is a generic of Nexavar, which has been authorised in the EU since 19 July 2006. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Sorafenib Accord and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Nexavar. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: 
Hepatocellular carcinoma 
Sorafenib Accord is indicated for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Sorafenib Accord is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma 
who have failed prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are considered 
unsuitable for such therapy. 
Sorafenib Accord should be prescribed by a physician experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
