20 July 2023  
EMA/CHMP/292683/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Opdivo 
nivolumab 
On 20 July 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Opdivo. 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to an existing indication to include treatment of stage IIB or IIC 
melanoma. For information, the full indications for Opdivo will be as follows:2 
Melanoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and 
older. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients 
with low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Adjuvant treatment of melanoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults and adolescents 12 
years of age and older with Stage IIB or IIC melanoma, or melanoma with involvement of 
lymph nodes or metastatic disease who have undergone complete resection (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose 
tumours have no sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
non-small cell lung cancer after prior chemotherapy in adults. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after 
prior therapy in adults. 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
OPDIVO in combination with cabozantinib is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult 
patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and 
treatment with brentuximab vedotin. 
Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell 
cancer of the head and neck in adults progressing on or after platinum-based therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Urothelial carcinoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of locally advanced unresectable or 
metastatic urothelial carcinoma in adults after failure of prior platinum-containing therapy. 
Adjuvant treatment of urothelial carcinoma 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adults with muscle invasive 
urothelial carcinoma (MIUC) with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, who are at high risk of 
recurrence after undergoing radical resection of MIUC (see section 5.1). 
Mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer 
(CRC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer after prior 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients 
with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma with 
tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
OPDIVO in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or 
metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma with tumour cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable 
advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma after prior 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/292683/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy. 
Adjuvant treatment of oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer (OC or GEJC) 
OPDIVO as monotherapy is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with 
oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction cancer who have residual pathologic disease 
following prior neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction (GEJ) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma 
OPDIVO in combination with fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based combination chemotherapy is 
indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with HER2-negative advanced or 
metastatic gastric, gastro-oesophageal junction or oesophageal adenocarcinoma whose tumours 
express PD-L1 with a combined positive score (CPS) ≥ 5. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Opdivo  
EMA/CHMP/292683/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
