19 September 2019 
EMA/CHMP/496127/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi 
bortezomib 
On 19 September 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Bortezomib 
Fresenius Kabi, intended for the treatment of multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. The applicant for 
this medicinal product is Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH. 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi will be available as 3.5 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance 
of Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is bortezomib, an antineoplastic agent that inhibits the proteolytic activity of 
the proteasome, a proteolytic complex that is involved in the breakdown of cellular proteins (ATC code: 
L01XX32). 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is a generic of Velcade, which has been authorised in the EU since 26 April 2004. 
Since Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi is administered intravenously and is 100% bioavailable, a bioequivalence 
study versus the reference product Velcade was not required. A question and answer document on generic 
medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Bortezomib as monotherapy or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive multiple myeloma 
who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone is indicated for the treatment of adult 
patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma who are not eligible for high dose 
chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone, or with dexamethasone and thalidomide, is 
indicated for the induction treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma 
who are eligible for high dose chemotherapy with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. 
Bortezomib in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone is 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with previously untreated mantle cell lymphoma who 
are unsuitable for haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.”  
It is proposed that Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi be prescribed by physicians qualified and experienced in the 
use of chemotherapeutic agents. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
Bortezomib Fresenius Kabi  
EMA/CHMP/496127/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
