26 April 2023
EMA/CHMP/918256/2022
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation)
Camzyos
mavacamten
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Camzyos, 
intended for the treatment of symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (oHCM). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG.
Camzyos will be available as 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg and 15 mg hard capsules. The active substance of 
Camzyos is mavacamten, a reversible cardiac myosin inhibitor (ATC code: C01EB24). By modulating the
number of myosin heads that can enter power-generating states, Camzyos inhibits cardiac myosin, 
thereby normalising cardiac muscle contractility, reducing dynamic left ventricular outflow tract
obstruction and improving cardiac filling pressures in patients with oHCM. 
The benefits of Camzyos, as shown in two phase 3, randomised, placebo-controlled trials, are an
improvement in exercise capacity (as measured by pVO2max) and reduced need for septal reduction 
therapy in oHCM patients administered mavacamten compared with placebo. The most common side 
effects are dizziness, dyspnoea, systolic dysfunction and syncope.
The full indication is:
CAMZYOS is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic (New York Heart Association, NYHA, 
class II-III) obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (oHCM) in adult patients (see section 5.1).
Treatment with Camzyos should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced in the
management of patients with cardiomyopathy.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6 ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
