European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/156983/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ABILIFY 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): aripiprazole 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Abilify  7.5  mg/ml  solution  for  injection.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this 
medicinal product is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“rapid control of agitation and disturbed behaviours in patients with manic episodes in Bipolar I 
Disorder, when oral therapy is not appropriate.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Abilify 7.5 mg/ml solution for injection will be as follows***: 
“ABILIFY  solution  for  injection  is  indicated  for  the  rapid  control  of  agitation  and  disturbed 
behaviours in patients with schizophrenia or in patients with manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder, 
when oral therapy is not appropriate.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68  
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
