17 December 2015 
EMA/CHMP/558150/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Neofordex 
dexamethasone  
On 17 December 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Neofordex, 
intended for the treatment of symptomatic multiple myeloma. Neofordex was designated as an orphan 
medicinal product on 9 June 2010. The applicant for this medicinal product is Laboratoires CTRS. 
Neofordex will be available as a 40-mg tablet. The active substance of Neofordex is dexamethasone 
acetate, a corticosteroid for systemic use (ATC code: H02AB02).  
The benefits with dexamethasone are its ability to improve survival and response in combination with 
other medicinal products in symptomatic multiple myeloma. The most common side effects are 
hyperglycaemia, insomnia, muscle pain and weakness, asthenia, fatigue, oedema and weight increase.  
The full indication is: "Neofordex is indicated in adults for the treatment of symptomatic multiple 
myeloma in combination with other medicinal products." It is proposed that Neofordex must be initiated 
and monitored under the supervision of physicians experienced in the management of multiple myeloma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
