15 December 2022 
EMA/904398/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Imjudo 
tremelimumab 
On 15 December 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Imjudo, 
intended for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
AstraZeneca AB. 
Imjudo will be available as a 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The active substance of 
Imjudo is tremelimumab, a monoclonal antibody (ATC code: L01FX20). It binds to CTLA-4, which is 
primarily expressed on the surface of activated T lymphocytes, and thus enhances T-cell activation and 
proliferation, resulting in increased T-cell diversity and enhanced anti-tumour activity. 
The  benefit  of  Imjudo  in  combination  with  durvalumab  is  a  significant  improvement  in  overall  survival 
compared  with  the  standard  of  care,  sorafenib,  as  observed  in  a  randomised,  open-label,  multicentre 
Phase III study in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. The most common side effects are 
rash,  pruritus,  diarrhoea,  abdominal  pain,  AST  increased,  pyrexia,  hypothyroidism,  cough/productive 
cough, oedema peripheral and lipase increased. 
The full indication is: 
IMJUDO in combination with durvalumab is indicated for the first line treatment of adults with 
advanced or unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
Imjudo should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
