30 January 2020 
EMA/43762/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma 
cinacalcet 
On 30 January 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma, intended for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism, parathyroid carcinoma and 
primary hyperparathyroidism. The applicant for this medicinal product is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma will be available as 30-mg, 60-mg and 90-mg film-coated tablets for oral use. 
The active substance of Cinacalcet Accordpharma is cinacalcet, a calcimimetic agent (ATC code: 
H05BX01), which lowers parathyroid hormone levels by increasing the sensitivity of the calcium-sensing 
receptor in the parathyroid gland to extracellular calcium. 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma is a generic of Mimpara, which has been authorised in the EU since 22 October 
2004. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Cinacalcet, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Mimpara. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Secondary hyperparathyroidism 
Adults 
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in adult patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
on maintenance dialysis therapy. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in children aged 3 years and older with end-stage 
renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy in whom secondary HPT is not adequately 
controlled with standard of care therapy (see section 4.4). 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma may be used as part of a therapeutic regimen including phosphate binders 
and/or Vitamin D sterols, as appropriate (see section 5.1). 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Parathyroid carcinoma and primary hyperparathyroidism in adults 
Reduction of hypercalcaemia in adult patients with: 
• 
• 
parathyroid carcinoma. 
primary HPT for whom parathyroidectomy would be indicated on the basis of serum calcium levels 
(as defined by relevant treatment guidelines), but in whom parathyroidectomy is not clinically 
appropriate or is contraindicated.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma  
EMA/43762/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
