23 March 2017  
EMA/CHMP/144418/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Axumin 
fluciclovine (18F) 
On 23 March 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Axumin, 
intended to be used as a diagnostic agent for the detection of recurrence of prostate cancer with Positron 
Emission Tomography (PET) imaging. The applicant for this medicinal product is Blue Earth Diagnostics 
Ltd. 
Axumin will be available as a solution for injection (1600 MBq/ml and 3200 MBq/ml). The active 
substance of Axumin is fluciclovine (18F), a radiopharmaceutical for tumour detection (ATC code: 
V09IX12). Fluciclovine (18F) is a synthetic amino acid which is transported across mammalian cell 
membranes by amino acid transporters that are known to be upregulated in prostate cancer, providing a 
mechanism for the enhanced accumulation of fluciclovine (18F) in prostate cancer. 
The benefits with Axumin are its ability to assess with high sensitivity the sites where prostate cancer has 
reappeared in patients after primary curative treatment of the prostate gland. Axumin is indicated in 
patients presenting with elevated blood prostate specific antigen (PSA). The most common side effects 
are dysgeusia, parosmia and injection site reaction.  
The full indication is: “This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. Axumin is indicated for Positron 
Emission Tomography (PET) imaging to detect recurrence of prostate cancer in adult men with a 
suspected recurrence based on elevated blood prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels after primary 
curative treatment.” It is proposed that Axumin be administered by appropriately qualified healthcare 
professionals. Images should only be interpreted by readers trained in the interpretation of PET images 
with fluciclovine (18F). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
