25 February 2021 
EMA/CHMP/101446/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Abiraterone Accord 
abiraterone 
On 25 February 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Abiraterone 
Accord, intended for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product 
is Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
Abiraterone Accord will be available as 250-mg tablet and 500-mg film-coated tablet. The active 
substance of Abiraterone Accord is abiraterone (as abiraterone acetate), a hormone antagonist (ATC 
code: L02BX03) that inhibits the production of androgens in the testes, adrenal glands and prostatic 
tumour tissues. 
Abiraterone Accord is a generic of Zytiga, which has been authorised in the EU since 05/09/2011. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Abiraterone Accord, and its bioequivalence to the reference 
product Zytiga. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
Abiraterone Accord is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for: 
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of newly diagnosed high risk metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer 
(mHSPC) in adult men in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) 
the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in adult men who are 
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of androgen deprivation therapy in whom 
chemotherapy is not yet clinically indicated 
the treatment of mCRPC in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a 
docetaxel-based chemotherapy regimen.  
Abiraterone Accord should be prescribed by an appropriate healthcare professional. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Abiraterone Accord  
EMA/CHMP/101446/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
