28 July 2016  
EMA/485582/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mysildecard 
Sildenafil citrate 
On 28 July 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Mysildecard, 
intended for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
MYLAN S.A.S. 
Mysildecard will be available as 20 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Mysildecard is 
sildenafil, a potent and selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) specific 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) (ATC code: G04BE03). Sildenafil increases cGMP within pulmonary 
vascular smooth muscle cells resulting in relaxation. In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension this 
can lead to vasodilation of the pulmonary vascular bed and, to a lesser degree, vasodilatation in the 
systemic circulation. 
Mysildecard is a generic of Revatio, which has been authorised in the EU since 28 October 2005. Studies 
have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Mysildecard and its bioequivalence to Viagra, a sildenafil-
containing medicine with the same qualitative composition as Revatio. A question and answer document 
on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is:  
“Adults 
Treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension classified as WHO functional class II and 
III, to improve exercise capacity. Efficacy has been shown in primary pulmonary hypertension and 
pulmonary hypertension associated with connective tissue disease. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of paediatric patients aged 1 year to 17 years old with pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
Efficacy in terms of improvement of exercise capacity or pulmonary haemodynamics has been shown in 
primary pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary hypertension associated with congenital heart disease.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
It is proposed that Mysildecard be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Mysildecard  
EMA/485582/2016 
Page 2/2 
  
  
