14 September 2017  
EMA/CHMP/537471/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Miglustat Gen.Orph 
miglustat 
On 14 September 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Miglustat 
Gen.Orph, intended for treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Gen.Orph. 
Miglustat Gen.Orph will be available as capsules (100 mg). The active substance of Miglustat Gen.Orph is 
miglustat, an inhibitor of glucosylceramide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the first step in the 
synthesis of glycosphingolipids (ATC code: A16AX06). It works as substrate reduction therapy. This 
means that it reduces production of glycosphingolipids, the substrates of the defective enzyme in patients 
with Gaucher disease (glucocerebrosidase). Reducing glycosphingolipids levels is expected to slow down 
or prevent symptoms of type 1 Gaucher disease. 
Miglustat Gen.Orph is a generic of Zavesca which has been authorised in the EU since 20 November 
2002. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Miglustat Gen.Orph, and its bioequivalence to 
the reference product Zavesca. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found 
here. 
The full indication is:  
“Miglustat Gen.Orph is indicated for the oral treatment of adult patients with mild to moderate 
type 1 Gaucher disease. Miglustat Gen.Orph may be used only in the treatment of patients for 
whom enzyme replacement therapy is unsuitable”. 
It is proposed that Miglustat Gen.Orph be prescribed by physicians who are knowledgeable in the 
management of Gaucher disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
