26 April 2023 
EMA/167799/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Jaypirca 
pirtobrutinib 
On 26 April 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional2 marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Jaypirca3, intended for the treatment of relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Jaypirca will be available as 50 mg and 100 mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of Jaypirca is 
pirtobrutinib, a protein kinase inhibitor (ATC code: not yet assigned). Pirtobrutinib is a reversible, 
noncovalent inhibitor of Bruton’s tyrosine kinase, which is involved in activation of pathways necessary 
for B-cell proliferation, trafficking, chemotaxis, and adhesion.  
The benefit of Jaypirca is its ability to bring about a response in patients with relapsed and refractory 
mantle cell lymphoma. The most common side effects are fatigue, neutropenia, diarrhoea and contusion. 
The full indication is: 
Jaypirca as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or 
refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have been previously treated with a Bruton’s 
tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor. 
Jaypirca should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is expected to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
3 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
