28 January 2016 
EMA/CHMP/23731/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rasagiline Mylan 
rasagiline 
On 28 January 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Rasagiline 
Mylan, intended for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is MYLAN S.A.S. 
Rasagiline Mylan will be available as 1-mg tablets. The active substance of Rasagiline Mylan is rasagiline, 
a selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor (MAO-B)  (ATC code: N04BD02). MAO inhibitors in 
Parkinson’s disease inhibit MAO-B in the human brain thereby decreasing the oxidative deamination of 
both endogenous dopamine and dopamine produced from exogenous levodopa. Thus dopamine levels are 
increased and dopaminergic function is improved 
Rasagiline Mylan is a generic of Azilect, which has been authorised in the EU since 24 February 2005. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Rasagiline Mylan, and its bioequivalence to the 
reference product Azilect. A question and answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The full indication is: “Treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) as monotherapy (without 
levodopa) or as adjunct therapy (with levodopa) in patients with end of dose fluctuations”.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
