15 September 2022  
EMA/CHMP/762289/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Vaxneuvance 
pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (15-valent, adsorbed) 
On 15 September 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Vaxneuvance. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
The CHMP adopted an extension to the existing indication for prophylaxis against pneumonia and acute 
otitis media caused by pneumococcal disease, and associated invasive disease, in infants, children and 
adolescents.  
For information, the full indications for Vaxneuvance will be as follows2: 
Vaxneuvance is indicated for active immunisation for the prevention of invasive 
disease, pneumonia and acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in 
infants, children and adolescents from 6 weeks to less than 18 years of age. 
Vaxneuvance is indicated for active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease and 
pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in individuals 18 years of age and older. 
See sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. 
The use of Vaxneuvance should be in accordance with official recommendations. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR) and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
