15 December 2016 
EMA/CHMP/850981/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Repatha 
evolocumab 
On 15 December 2016, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Repatha. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The CHMP recommended approval of a new strength: Repatha 420 mg solution for injection in a cartridge to 
be given using an automated device. The new strength will be available in addition to the existing strength: 
Repatha 140 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen.  
The new 420 mg strength will allow the administration of 420 mg of evolocumab using a single injection. 
The indications of Repatha remain unchanged and are as follows: 
“Hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid lowering therapies in patients unable to reach 
LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin or, 
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant, or 
for whom a statin is contraindicated. 
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia 
Repatha is indicated in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies.  
The effect of Repatha on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not yet been determined.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report (EPAR), 
and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to the marketing 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Repatha  
EMA/CHMP/850981/2016 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
