22 April 2010 
EMA/CHMP/104905/2010 Rev. 1 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Votrient 
Pazopanib hydrochloride 
On 22 April 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a revised 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a conditional marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Votrient, 200 and 400 mg for oral use, intended for the treatment of advanced renal cell 
carcinoma. The revision was triggered by the removal of pazopanib hydrochloride from the Community 
register of orphan medicinal products, on the applicant’s request. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Glaxo Group Limited. They may request a re-examination of 
any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention 
within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Votrient is pazopanib hydrochloride, an antineoplastic agent, protein kinase 
inhibitor (L01XE11) that inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) that are implicated in 
angiogenesis, tumour growth and metastatic progression of cancer. 
The benefits with Votrient have been shown in a phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled multicentre study in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. In this study efficacy has 
been shown in terms of an increased progression free survival in patients receiving pazopanib 
compared to placebo. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, hair colour change, hypertension, 
nausea, fatigue, anorexia, vomiting, dysgeusia, elevated alanine aminotransferase and elevated 
aspartate aminotransferase and abdominal pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Votrient will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “Votrient is indicated for the first line treatment of advanced Renal Cell 
Carcinoma (RCC) and for patients who have received prior cytokine therapy for advanced disease”. It 
is proposed that Votrient treatment should only be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
administration of anti-cancer agents.  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Votrient and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional2. 
2 A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the 
benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still 
required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
Votrient 
EMA/CHMP/253072/2010  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
