18 December 2014 
EMA/CHMP/756988/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mysimba 
naltrexone/bupropion 
On 18 December 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Mysimba, 8 mg / 90 mg, prolonged-release tablet, intended as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet 
and increased physical activity, for the management of weight in adult patients. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Orexigen Therapeutics Ireland Limited. They may 
request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substances of Mysimba are naltrexone and bupropion, centrally acting anti-obesity 
products, ATC code A08AA. Naltrexone is a mu-opioid antagonist and bupropion is a 
norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor. Both compounds affect key circuitry in two areas 
of the brain to influence eating behaviour. The first area is the arcuate nucleus of the 
hypothalamus, an area of the brain that plays a critical role in the control of food intake and energy 
expenditure. The second is the mesolimbic dopaminergic reward system, a region of the brain that 
is important for processing the rewarding aspects of food and food related stimuli.  
The main benefit of Mysimba is the achievement of a clinically relevant weight loss.  
In clinical studies, the most frequent adverse reactions observed with Mysimba were 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions (nausea, constipation, vomiting, dizziness, and dry mouth). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mysimba will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is " Mysimba is indicated as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and 
increased physical activity, for the management of weight in adult patients (≥18 years) with an 
initial Body Mass Index (BMI) of 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
• 
≥ 30 kg/m² (obese), or 
•  ≥ 27 kg/m² to < 30 kg/m² (overweight) in the presence of one or more weight-related co-
morbidities (e.g., type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia, or controlled hypertension)". 
Treatment with Mysimba should be discontinued after 16 weeks if patients have not lost at least 
5% of their initial body weight.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Mysimba and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Mysimba 
EMA/CHMP/756988/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
