EMA/CHMP/624375/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Tavneos 
avacopan 
On 11 November 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tavneos2, 
intended, in combination with a rituximab or cyclophosphamide regimen, for the treatment of adult 
patients with severe, active granulomatosis with polyangiitis or microscopic polyangiitis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma France. 
Tavneos will be available as 10 mg hard capsules. The active substance of Tavneos is avacopan, a 
selective antagonist of the human complement 5a (C5a) receptor (ATC code: not yet assigned). By 
blocking the C5a receptor, avacopan reduces the pro-inflammatory effects of C5a, including neutrophil 
activation, migration, and adherence to vascular endothelial surfaces. 
The benefits of Tavneos are mainly related to patients achieving disease remission at Week 26 and 
sustained remission at week 52. Remission was defined as a Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score of 0 
and not taking glucocorticoids for treatment of ANCA-associated vasculitis within four weeks prior to week 
26; and sustained remission indicated subjects in remission at week 26 and uninterruptedly up to week 
52. Avacopan was used as combination treatment with cyclophosphamide followed by combination of 
avacopan with azathioprine or mycophenolate or in combination with rituximab followed by avacopan 
monotherapy; and with glucocorticoids as needed. 
The most common side effects included upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, headache, 
nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, increased liver function tests, decreased white blood cell count. 
The full indication is:  
Tavneos, in combination with a rituximab or cyclophosphamide regimen, is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with severe, active granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) or 
microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). 
Treatment with Tavneos should be initiated and monitored by healthcare professionals experienced in the 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diagnosis and treatment of GPA or MPA. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Tavneos  
EMA/CHMP/624375/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
