21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/405738/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Zinforo 
Ceftaroline fosamil 
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Zinforo, 
600 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for treatment of adults with 
complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI) and community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). The 
applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Zinforo is ceftaroline fosamil, an oxyimino cephalosporin medicinal product 
(ATC Code J01DI02). As a cephalosporin, it acts as all beta-lactam agents via inhibition of the 
peptidoglycan synthesis.  
With regard to benefits, in humans ceftaroline was shown to be non-inferior to the selected 
comparative regimens in four phase 3 studies – two studies in each of the approved indications (cSSTI 
and CAP). In addition, Zinforo has the ability to bind altered penicillin-binding-proteins of some 
resistant microorganisms such as methicillin-resistant S.aureus (MRSA) and penicillin-nonsusceptible 
S.pneumoniae (PNSP). The activity of ceftaroline against these microorganisms has been proven in 
nonclinical studies (in vitro and in vivo infection models), but clinical data are limited. The most 
common side effects are positive Coombs direct test, rash, pruritus, headache, dizziness, phlebitis, 
diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, increased transaminases, pyrexia and infusion site 
reactions (erythema, phlebitis, pain). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zinforo will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: " Zinforo is indicated in adults for the treatment of the following infections 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.1): 
  Complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI) 
  Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP)  
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Zinforo and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
Zinforo 
EMA/CHMP/405738/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
