20 May 2021 
EMA/CHMP/259029/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Verquvo 
vericiguat 
On 20 May 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Verquvo, 
intended for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure in adult patients with reduced ejection 
fraction.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bayer AG. 
Verquvo will be available as 2.5-mg, 5-mg and 10-mg film-coated tablets. The active substance of 
Verquvo is vericiguat (ATC code: C01DX22).   
Vericiguat stimulates directly soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), independently of and synergistically with 
nitric oxide (NO), to augment the levels of intracellular cGMP. This leads to smooth muscle relaxation and 
vasodilation, which may improve both myocardial and vascular function.  
The benefits of Verquvo are its ability to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death or hospitalisation due to 
heart failure in patients with chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction who are stabilised after a 
recent decompensation event. The most common side effects are hypotension, dizziness, nausea, 
orthostatic hypotension, dyspepsia and gastroesophageal reflux disease.  
The full indication is: 
Verquvo is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure in adult patients with 
reduced ejection fraction who are stabilised after a recent decompensation event requiring IV 
therapy (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
