23 October 2014 
EMA/CHMP/601448/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Scenesse 
afamelanotide 
On 23 October 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Scenesse, 
16 mg, implant, intended for the prevention of phototoxicity in adult patients with erythropoietic 
protoporphyria (EPP). Scenesse was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 May 2008. The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Clinuvel UK Limited. They may request a re-examination of any 
CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 
15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Scenesse is afamelanotide, a synthetic analogue of the physiologically 
occurring α-melanocyte stimulating hormone that acts as a melanocortin-1 receptor agonist thereby 
stimulating melanogenesis and emollients and protectives (D02BB02). The increased melanogenesis 
results in increased pigmentation of the skin. 
The benefits with Scenesse are a decrease in light sensitivity, which translates into a limited increase 
in time EPP patients may spend in daylight or sunlight. Patients report an improved quality of life with 
increased time spent outside (commuting, work, leisure/sport, social). The most common side effects 
are headache, nausea, nasopharyngitis, migraine, abdominal pain, fatigue, lethargy and somnolence. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Scenesse will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: “indicated for the prevention of phototoxicity in adult patients with 
erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP)". It is proposed that Scenesse be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the treatment of erythropoietic protoporphyria. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Scenesse and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2.  
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy 
and safety of the medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the 
area concerned, or ethical considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
Scenesse  
EMA/CHMP/601448/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
                                                
