22 June 2017  
EMA/CHMP/379833/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Mimpara 
cinacalcet 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Mimpara. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a change to the existing indication as follows2:  
“Secondary hyperparathyroidism 
Adults  
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in adult patients with end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in children aged 3 years and older 
with end stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy in whom 
secondary HPT is not adequately controlled with standard of care therapy (see section 
4.4). 
Mimpara may be used as part of a therapeutic regimen including phosphate binders and/or 
Vitamin D sterols, as appropriate (see section 5.1). 
Parathyroid carcinoma and primary hyperparathyroidism in adults 
Reduction of hypercalcaemia in adult patients with: 
• 
• 
parathyroid carcinoma. 
primary HPT for whom parathyroidectomy would be indicated on the basis of serum calcium 
levels (as defined by relevant treatment guidelines), but in whom parathyroidectomy is not 
clinically appropriate or is contraindicated.” 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Mimpara  
EMA/CHMP/379833/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
