14 September 2023  
EMA/CHMP/400602/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Enhertu 
trastuzumab deruxtecan 
On 14 September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Enhertu. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication to include treatment of advanced HER2-mutant non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC). For information, the full indications for Enhertu will be as follows:2 
Breast cancer 
HER2-positive breast cancer 
Enhertu as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer who have received one or more prior anti-HER2-based 
regimens. 
HER2-low breast cancer 
Enhertu as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or 
metastatic HER2-low breast cancer who have received prior chemotherapy in the metastatic 
setting or developed disease recurrence during or within 6 months of completing adjuvant 
chemotherapy (see section 4.2). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Enhertu as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced 
NSCLC whose tumours have an activating HER2 (ERBB2) mutation and who require 
systemic therapy following platinum-based chemotherapy with or without 
immunotherapy. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastric cancer  
Enhertu as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced HER2-
positive gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma who have received a prior 
trastuzumab-based regimen. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Enhertu  
EMA/CHMP/400602/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
