25 January 2018 
EMA/CHMP/24825/2018 Rev. 2 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Lokelma 
sodium zirconium cyclosilicate 
On 25 January 2018 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) confirmed its previous 
positive opinion and recommended the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lokelma. This follows an inspection of the manufacturing site for Lokelma’s active substance confirming 
that the site is compliant with good manufacturing practice.  
Lokelma is intended for the treatment of hyperkalaemia. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
AstraZeneca AB.  
Lokelma will be available as 5-g and 10-g powder for oral suspension. The active substance of Lokelma is 
sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (ATC code: V03AE10). Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate selectively binds 
potassium in exchange for hydrogen and sodium cations throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and 
reduces the concentration of free potassium in the GI lumen. This lowers serum potassium levels by 
drawing potassium into the GI tract and increasing faecal potassium excretion to resolve hyperkalaemia. 
The benefits with Lokelma are its ability to lower serum potassium levels. The most common side effects 
are hypokalaemia and oedema related events. 
The full indication is: "treatment of hyperkalaemia in adult patients".  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
