European Medicines Agency 
Post-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 14 December 2005 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/418336/2005 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
TAMIFLU 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): oseltamivir 
On  14  December  2005  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion∗ ∗  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  product  Tamiflu  75 mg  capsule,  hard  and  12 mg/ml  powder  for  oral  suspension.  The 
Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Roche Registration Limited. 
The  new  indication  adopted  by  CHMP  is:  the  prevention  of  influenza  indication  to  children 
between 1 and 12 years of age.  
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication of Tamiflu will be as follows∗∗∗:  
Treatment of influenza in adults and children one year of age or older who present with symptoms 
typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Efficacy has been 
demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of symptoms. This indication is 
based on clinical studies of naturally occurring influenza in which the predominant infection was 
influenza A. 
Prevention of influenza 
- 
- 
Post exposure prevention in adults and children one year of age or older following contact with 
a clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
The appropriate use of Tamiflu for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case-by-
case basis by the circumstances and the population requiring protection. In exceptional 
situations (e.g. in case of a mismatch between the circulating and vaccine virus strains, and a 
pandemic situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in adults and children one year of 
age or older. 
∗   Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
∗∗   Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in  writing  of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
∗∗∗ The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
©EMEA 2005 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
