17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/521392/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Rinvoq 
upadacitinib 
On 17 October 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Rinvoq, intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant for this medicinal product is AbbVie 
Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG. 
Rinvoq will be available as 15-mg prolonged-release tablets. The active substance of Rinvoq is upadacitinib, 
an immunosuppressant and a selective and reversible JAK inhibitor (ATC code: not yet assigned). 
Upadacitinib preferentially inhibits signalling by JAK1 or JAK1/3 with functional selectivity over cytokine 
receptors that signal via pairs of JAK2. 
The benefits with Rinvoq are its ability to reduce the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common 
side effects are upper respiratory tract infections, nausea, blood creatine phosphokinase increased and 
cough. The most common serious adverse reactions are serious infections. 
The full indication is: “Rinvoq is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis 
in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Rinvoq may be used as monotherapy or in combination 
with methotrexate.”  
It is proposed that Rinvoq be prescribed by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
