24 September 2015 
EMA/CHMP/519805/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nucala 
mepolizumab 
On 24 September 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nucala, 
intended for the treatment of severe refractory eosinophilic asthma. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services. 
Nucala will be available as 100 mg powder for solution for injection. The active substance of Nucala is 
mepolizumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody which targets with high affinity and specificity human 
interleukin-5 (IL-5). IL-5 is a protein that plays a major role in the growth and survival of the eosinophils 
involved in eosinophilic asthma. 
The benefits with Nucala are its ability to reduce the number of asthma exacerbations, in patients who 
either remain uncontrolled on their previous standard of care or are dependent on systemic 
corticosteroids. The most common side effects are headache, injection site reactions and back pain. 
The full indication is: "Nucala is indicated as an add-on treatment for severe refractory eosinophilic 
asthma in adult patients (see section 5.1)". It is proposed that Nucala should be prescribed by physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of severe refractory eosinophilic asthma. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
