21 June 2012 
EMA/CHMP/408365/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Enbrel 
etanercept 
On 21 June 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Enbrel. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Pfizer Limited. They 
may request a re examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European Medicines 
Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a change to an indication as follows2: 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended 
oligoarthritis in children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have 
had an inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Enbrel has not been studied in children aged less than 2 years. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Enbrel will be as follows: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7<sector fax> 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who 
have proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in  adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy.  
Enbrel has not been studied in children aged less than 2 years. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
Enbrel 
EMA/CHMP/408365/2012  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
