20 May 2021 
EMA/CHMP/270677/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion 1 (initial authorisation) 
Imcivree 
setmelanotide 
On 20 May 2021,  the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting  of a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product Imcivree 2, 
intended for the treatment of obesity and the control of hunger associated with  genetic deficiencies of the 
melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) pathway. 
The applicant for this  medicinal product is Rhythm Pharmaceuticals Limited. 
Imcivree will be available as 10 mg/ml solution  for injection. The active substance of Imcivree is 
setmelanotide (ATC code: A08AA12), an 8-amino acid cyclic peptide analogue of naturally occurring 
alpha-melanocyte stimulating  hormone (α-MSH).  Setmelanotide is a selective MC4  receptor agonist and is 
claimed to  re-establish MC4  receptor pathway activity to  reduce hunger and promote weight loss. 
The benefits of Imcivree are its ability to  achieve a weight loss equal or greater than 10% after 1 year of 
treatment and demonstrate clinically meaningful improvement in hunger management in patients with  pro-
opiomelanocortin (POMC) deficiency obesity and in patients with leptin receptor (LEPR) deficiency obesity. 
The most common side effects are hyperpigmentation, injection site reaction, nausea and headache.  
The full indication is: 
Imcivree is indicated for the treatment of obesity and the control of hunger associated with 
genetically confirmed loss-of-function biallelic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), including PCSK1, 
deficiency or biallelic leptin  receptor (LEPR) deficiency in adults and children 6 years of age and 
above. 
Imcivree should be prescribed and supervised by physicians with  expertise in obesity with  underlying 
genetic aetiology. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This product was designated as an orphan medicine during its development. EMA will now review the information available to 
date to determine if the orphan designation can be maintained 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this  product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will  be published in the  European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union  languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the  European Commission. 
Imcivree  
EMA/CHMP/270677/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
