European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 June 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/210276/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
TRACLEER 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): bosentan 
On 26 June 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Tracleer.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Actelion 
Registration Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
“Some  improvements  have  also  been  shown  in  patients  with  PAH  WHO  functional  class  II  (see 
section 5.1).". 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Tracleer will be as follows***: 
“Treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) to improve exercise capacity and symptoms in 
patients with WHO functional class III.  
Efficacy has been shown in: 
• 
• 
• 
Primary (idiopathic and familial) PAH 
PAH secondary to scleroderma without significant interstitial pulmonary disease 
PAH associated with congenital systemic-to-pulmonary shunts and Eisenmenger’s physiology 
Some improvements have also been shown in patients with PAH WHO functional class II (see 
section 5.1.) 
Tracleer is also indicated to reduce the number of new digital ulcers in patients with systemic sclerosis 
and ongoing digital ulcer disease (see section 5.1).” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
