26 March 2020 
EMA/CHMP/114945/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Nepexto 
etanercept 
On 26 March 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Nepexto, 
intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, axial 
spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis), plaque psoriasis and 
paediatric plaque psoriasis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited. 
Nepexto will be available as 25 mg and 50 mg solutions for injection. The active substance of Nepexto is 
etanercept, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: L04AB01). Etanercept is a fusion protein, which 
preferentially binds to tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and thereby inhibits its biological activity. 
Nepexto is a biosimilar medicinal product. It is highly similar to the reference product Enbrel (etanercept), 
which was authorised in the EU on 3 February 2000. Data show that Nepexto has comparable quality, 
safety and efficacy to Enbrel. More information on biosimilar medicines can be found here. 
The full indications are:  
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Nepexto in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
active rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, 
including methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Nepexto can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Nepexto is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis 
in adults not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Nepexto, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of 
progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or 
who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Etanercept has not been studied in children aged less than 2 years. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Etanercept has been shown 
to improve physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of 
progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular 
symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate 
response to conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who 
have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, 
methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years 
who are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or 
phototherapies. 
It is proposed that treatment with Nepexto should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians 
experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric 
plaque psoriasis. Patients treated with Nepexto should be given the patient alert card. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
Nepexto  
EMA/CHMP/114945/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
