22 January 2015 
EMA/CHMP/45332/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Kengrexal 
cangrelor 
On 22 January 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kengrexal 
50 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion intended for the reduction of thrombotic 
cardiovascular events in adult patients with coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary 
intervention and who have not received an oral P2Y12 inhibitor prior to the PCI procedure. Kengrexal 
should be co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is The Medicines Company UK Ltd. They may request a re-
examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Kengrexal is cangrelor, a platelet aggregation inhibitor ATC code: B01AC25. 
Cangrelor is a direct P2Y12 platelet receptor inhibitor that blocks adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced 
platelet activation and aggregation in vitro and ex vivo. Cangrelor binds selectively and reversibly to 
the P2Y12 receptor to prevent further signalling and platelet activation. 
The benefits with Kengrexal are its ability to inhibit platelet aggregation and co - administered with 
acetylsalicylic acid, prevent occurrence of thrombotic cardiovascular events in adult patients with 
coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention and who have not received 
prior oral P2Y12 therapy.  
The most common side effects are mild and moderate bleeding and dyspnoea. Serious adverse 
reactions associated with cangrelor in patients with coronary artery disease include severe/life 
threatening bleeding and hypersensitivity. 
 A pharmacovigilance plan for Kengrexal will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
“Kengrexal, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for the reduction of thrombotic 
cardiovascular events in adult patients with coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) who have not received an oral P2Y12 inhibitor prior to the PCI procedure and in 
whom oral therapy with P2Y12 inhibitors is not feasible or desirable." 
It is proposed that Kengrexal be prescribed by physicians experienced in the treatment of the disease. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Kengrexal and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Kengrexal 
EMA/CHMP/45332/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
