19 November 2015 
EMA/CHMP/734982/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Oncaspar 
pegaspargase 
On 19 November 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Oncaspar, intended for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Baxalta Innovations GmbH. In Europe, Oncaspar was authorised in 1994 in 
Germany and in 2008 in Poland for the treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
who were hypersensitive to native forms of asparaginase.  
Oncaspar will be available as a 750 U/ml solution for injection or infusion. The active substance of 
Oncaspar is pegaspargase, an antineoplastic agent (ATC code: L01XX24). Pegaspargase is obtained 
by PEGylation of the asparaginase enzyme. The mechanism of action of asparaginase is the 
enzymatic degradation of the amino acid asparagine. Depletion of asparagine in blood serum 
results in apoptosis of cells highly dependent on asparagine, especially leukaemic blasts.  
The PEGylation does not change the enzymatic properties of asparaginase, but it prolongs the half-
life of asparaginase and reduces its immunogenicity. 
Consequent to the complete asparagine depletion in serum, the benefit with Oncaspar administered 
as part of combination chemotherapy is its ability to increase the proportion of patients who have 
complete remission at the end of the treatment period. Oncaspar has shown to be effective when 
administered to patients non-hypersensitive to native forms of asparaginase as well as patients 
previously treated and hypersensitive to native forms of asparaginase. 
The most common side effects are hypersensitivity including anaphylactic reaction, febrile 
neutropenia, anaemia, hyperglycaemia, decreased platelet count, decreased neutrophil count and 
increased blood bilirubin. 
The full indication is: "Oncaspar is indicated as a component of antineoplastic combination therapy 
in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in paediatric patients from birth to 18 years, and adult 
patients". It is proposed that Oncaspar be prescribed and administered by physicians and 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued 67 days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
healthcare personnel experienced in the use of antineoplastic products.   
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) 
and made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has 
been granted by the European Commission. 
Oncaspar  
EMA/CHMP/734982/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
