22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/364898/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Mavenclad 
cladribine 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Mavenclad, 
intended for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Merck Serono Europe Limited. 
Mavenclad will be available as 10-mg tablets. The active substance of Mavenclad is cladribine, an 
antimetabolite (ATC code: L01BB04), which depletes lymphocytes by causing DNA strand breaks and 
interfering with DNA synthesis. 
The benefits with Mavenclad are its ability to reduce the frequency of relapses and to delay disease 
progression. The most important side effects are lymphopenia, which can be severe and long-lasting, and 
infections, including herpes zoster. 
The full indication is: "Treatment of adult patients with highly active relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS) as 
defined by clinical or imaging features".  
Mavenclad must be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of MS.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
