22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/347620/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
SonoVue 
sulphur hexafluoride 
On 22 June 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
SonoVue. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Bracco International B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication associated with a new route of administration for intravesical use as 
follows: 
“Ultrasonography of excretory urinary tract 
SonoVue is indicated for use in ultrasonography of the excretory tract in paediatric patients from 
newborn to 18 years to detect vesicoureteral reflux. For the limitation in the interpretation of a 
negative urosonography, see section 4.4 and 5.1.” 
For information, the full indications for SonoVue will be as follows:2 
Intravenous use: 
“This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
SonoVue is for use with ultrasound imaging to enhance the echogenicity of the blood, or of fluids 
in the urinary tract which results in an improved signal to noise ratio. 
SonoVue should only be used in patients where study without contrast enhancement is 
inconclusive. 
Echocardiography 
SonoVue is a transpulmonary echocardiographic contrast agent for use in adult patients with 
suspected or established cardiovascular disease to provide opacification of cardiac chambers and 
enhance left ventricular endocardial border delineation. 
Doppler of macrovasculature 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
                                                
SonoVue increases the accuracy in detection or exclusion of abnormalities in cerebral arteries and 
extracranial carotid or peripheral arteries in adult patients  by improving the Doppler signal to 
noise ratio. 
SonoVue increases the quality of the Doppler flow image and the duration of clinically-useful 
signal enhancement in portal vein assessment in adult patients. 
Doppler of microvasculature 
SonoVue improves display of the vascularity of liver and breast lesions during Doppler 
sonography in adult patients leading to more specific lesion characterisation. 
Intravesical use  
Ultrasonography of excretory urinary tract 
SonoVue is indicated for use in ultrasonography of the excretory tract in paediatric 
patients from newborn to 18 years to detect vesicoureteral reflux. For the limitation in 
the interpretation of a negative urosonography, see section 4.4 and 5.1.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
SonoVue  
EMA/CHMP/347620/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
