19 May 2022  
EMA/CHMP/260143/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Olumiant 
baricitinib 
On 19 May 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion 
recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Olumiant.2 
The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication for alopecia areata. The full indications for Olumiant will therefore be 
as follows:3 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in 
adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more 
disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs. Baricitinib may be used as monotherapy or in 
combination with methotrexate (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1 for available data on different 
combinations). 
Atopic dermatitis 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adult patients 
who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Alopecia areata 
Baricitinib is indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in adult patients 
(see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 This recommendation is without prejudice to the final conclusions of the ongoing referral procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from pharmacovigilance data. 
3 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Olumiant  
EMA/CHMP/260143/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
