European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/546417/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PREVENAR 13 
Common Name:  
Pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (13-valent, adsorbed) 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Prevenar 13, 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine adsorbed intended for “Active immunisation 
for  the  prevention  of  invasive  disease,  pneumonia  and  acute  otitis  media  caused  by  Streptococcus 
pneumoniae in infants and children form 6 weeks to 5 years of age”.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Wyeth Lederle Vaccines SA. 
The  active  substance  of  Prevenar  13  is  Pneumococcal  polysaccharide  conjugate  vaccine  13-valent, 
adsorbed, included the Streptococcus pneumoniae polysaccharide serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 
14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F each conjugated to a carrier protein (Pneumococcal vaccine, J07AL02), 
which act by developing an immune response protecting against the above-mentioned diseases.   
The benefits with Prevenar 13 are its ability to prevent invasive disease, pneumonia and acute otitis 
media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children. The most common side effects are 
injection-site reactions, fever, irritability, decreased appetite, and increased and/or decreased sleep. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Prevenar 13, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part 
of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Active immunisation for the prevention of invasive disease, pneumonia 
and acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks to 5 
years  of  age.  See  sections  4.4  and  5.1  for  information  on  protection  against  specific  pneumococcal 
for  Prevenar  13  should  be  based  on  official 
serotypes”.  The 
recommendations. 
immunisation  schedules 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Prevenar  13  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
