10 November 2022 
EMA/CHMP/822269/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Lynparza 
olaparib 
On 10 November 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Lynparza. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Lynparza is indicated in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for the treatment of 
adult patients with mCRPC in whom chemotherapy is not clinically indicated (see section 5.1). 
For information, the full indications for Lynparza tablets will therefore be as follows:2  
Ovarian cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the: 
• 
• 
maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) 
BRCA1/2-mutated (germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian 
tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following 
completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. 
maintenance treatment of adult patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in response 
(complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Lynparza in combination with bevacizumab is indicated for the: 
• 
maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) high-
grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who are in 
response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy in combination with bevacizumab and whose cancer is associated with 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
2 New text in bold 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) positive status defined by either a 
BRCA1/2 mutation and/or genomic instability (see section 5.1). 
Breast cancer 
Lynparza is indicated as: 
• 
• 
monotherapy or in combination with endocrine therapy for the adjuvant treatment of 
adult patients with germline BRCA1/2-mutations who have HER2-negative, high risk 
early breast cancer previously treated with neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline BRCA1/2-mutations, 
who have HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Patients should 
have previously been treated with an anthracycline and a taxane in the (neo)adjuvant 
or metastatic setting unless patients were not suitable for these treatments (see 
section 5.1). Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer should also 
have progressed on or after prior endocrine therapy, or be considered unsuitable for 
endocrine therapy. 
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas 
Lynparza is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
germline BRCA1/2-mutations who have metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas and have not 
progressed after a minimum of 16 weeks of platinum treatment within a first-line chemotherapy 
regimen.  
Prostate cancer 
Lynparza is indicated:  
• 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic castration-resistant 
prostate cancer (mCRPC) and BRCA1/2-mutations (germline and/or somatic) who have 
progressed following prior therapy that included a new hormonal agent. 
in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone for the 
treatment of adult patients with mCRPC in whom chemotherapy is not 
clinically indicated (see section 5.1). 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of 
product characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after a decision on this change to 
the marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
Lynparza  
EMA/CHMP/822269/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
