20 November 2014 
EMA/CHMP/489954/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Cosentyx 
secukinumab 
On 20 November 2014, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a 
positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product 
Cosentyx powder for solution for injection, solution for injection in pre-filled pen, solution for injection 
in pre-filled syringe intended for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm 
Ltd. They may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Cosentyx is secukinumab, an immunosuppressant (ATC Code: L04AC10). 
Secukinumab is a fully human IgG1/κ monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to and neutralises the 
proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-17A. Secukinumab works by targeting IL-17A and inhibiting 
its interaction with the IL-17 receptor, which is expressed on various cell types including keratinocytes. 
As a result, secukinumab inhibits the release of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and mediators 
of tissue damage and reduces IL-17A-mediated contributions to autoimmune and inflammatory 
diseases such as psoriasis.  
The benefits with Cosentyx are its ability to show superiority to placebo with respect to the co-primary 
endpoints Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score (PASI) 75 and Investigator’s Global Assessment 
(IGA mod 2011) 0/1 response at Week 12. In a pooled analysis, PASI 90, PASI 100 and IGA 0/1 
response rates indicating nearly complete/complete clearance were also statistically significantly better 
with Cosentyx compared to placebo. Cosentyx was statistically significantly superior to etanercept at 
Week 12 in achieving PASI 75 and IGA 0/1 response. Cosentyx was efficacious in systemic treatment 
naive, biologic-naive, biologic/anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-exposed and biologic/anti-TNF-failure 
patients. Improvements in PASI 75 in patients with concurrent psoriatic arthritis at baseline were 
similar to those in the overall plaque psoriasis population. 
The most frequently reported adverse drug reactions were upper respiratory tract infections (most 
frequently nasopharyngitis, rhinitis). Most of the reactions were mild or moderate in severity. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cosentyx will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation.  
The approved indication is: "Cosentyx is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque 
psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy”. The recommended dose is 300 mg. 
Cosentyx is intended for use under the guidance and supervision of a physician experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Cosentyx is indicated. 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit-to-risk balance for Cosentyx and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Cosentyx  
EMA/CHMP/489954/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
