25 July 2013 
EMA/CHMP/416989/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (post authorisation) 
Zonegran 
zonisamide 
On 25 July 2013, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion recommending a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal 
product Zonegran. The marketing authorisation holder for this medicinal product is Eisai Ltd. They 
may request are examination of the CHMP opinion, provided that they notify the European 
Medicines Agency in writing of their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication on adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures with 
or without secondary generalisation to include adolescents and children aged 6 years and 
above. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the revised European public assessment report 
(EPAR), and will be available in all official European Union languages after the variation to the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indications for Zonegran will be as follows2: 
Zonegran is indicated as:  
  monotherapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in 
adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy; 
 
adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary 
generalisation, in adults, adolescents and children aged 6 years and above. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be 
issued within 44 days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the opinion. 
2 The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
