15 October 2020 
EMA/CHMP/520993/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Leqvio 
inclisiran 
On 15 October 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Leqvio, 
intended for the treatment for primary hypercholesterolaemia or mixed dyslipidaemia. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Leqvio will be available as a 284-mg solution for injection. The active substance of Leqvio is inclisiran, a 
lipid-modifying agent (ATC code: C10AX16). Inclisiran reduces the intrahepatic PCSK9 enzyme and 
increases recycling of LDL-C receptor and its expression on the hepatocyte cell surface, thereby 
increasing LDL-C uptake and lowering LDL-C levels in the circulation. 
The benefits of Leqvio are lowering of LDL-C levels to a significantly greater extent compared to placebo. 
The most common side effects are reactions at the injection site. These adverse events were localised, 
predominantly mild or occasionally moderate, transient, and resolved without sequelae. 
The full indication is: 
Leqvio is indicated in adults with primary hypercholesterolaemia (heterozygous familial and 
non-familial) or mixed dyslipidaemia, as an adjunct to diet: 
•
•
in combination with a statin or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to
reach LDL-C goals with the maximum tolerated dose of a statin, or
alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin-intolerant,
or for whom a statin is contraindicated.
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and 
made available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 
days from adoption of the opinion 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
