EMA/CHMP/851518/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Dectova 
zanamivir 
On 28 February 2019, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances2 for the 
medicinal product Dectova, intended for the treatment of complicated and potentially life-threatening 
influenza. The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited. 
Dectova will be available as a 10 mg/ml solution for infusion. The active substance of Dectova is zanamivir, 
an inhibitor of influenza virus neuraminidase (ATC code: J05AH01), an enzyme important for viral entry into 
uninfected cells and release and spread of new virus once cells have been infected. 
The benefits with Dectova are its ability to speed resolution of clinical signs and recovery in patients with 
complicated and potentially life-threatening influenza. The most common side effects are diarrhoea, hepatic 
transaminases elevations, hepatocellular injury and rash. 
The full indication is: 
“Dectova is indicated for the treatment of complicated and potentially life-threatening influenza A or B virus 
infection in adult and paediatric patients (aged ≥6 months) when: 
• 
The patient’s influenza virus is known or suspected to be resistant to anti-influenza medicinal products 
other than zanamivir, and/or 
•  Other anti-viral medicinal products for treatment of influenza, including inhaled zanamivir, are not 
suitable for the individual patient. 
Dectova should be used in accordance with official guidance.” 
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR) and made 
available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been granted by the 
European Commission. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission decision, which will normally be issued 67 days 
from adoption of the opinion 
2 In exceptional circumstances, an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed annually. 
This happens when the applicant can show that they are unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety of the 
medicinal product, due to the rarity of the condition it is intended for, limited scientific knowledge in the area concerned, or ethical 
considerations involved in the collection of such data. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
  
                                                
