SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Cholestagel.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8.  
1. 
Introduction 
Epidemiological data and intervention studies have shown that elevated total and LDL cholesterol are 
risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD), and that pharmacological intervention to decrease low-
density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol decreases risk. The relationship between serum cholesterol and 
CHD death is concentration-related and continuous over the entire distribution of cholesterol levels. 
HMG-CoA 
treatment  of 
are 
hypercholesterolaemic patients on diet measures. Alternatives are bile acid sequestrants, nicotinic acid 
derivatives and fibric acid derivatives. A target LDL cholesterol of being <3mmol/L is recommended 
both in primary and secondary prevention.  
inhibitors 
reductase 
first-line 
(statins) 
agents 
the 
for 
the  efficacy  of 
the  HMG-CoA  reductase 
Despite 
inhibitors,  many  patients  with  severe 
hypercholesterolaemia  may  not  respond  sufficiently  and  will  require  combination  therapy,  using  an 
add-on approach, to achieve target LDL cholesterol levels. The major drawback of currently available 
bile  acid  resins  or  sequestrants  is  their  lack  of  tolerability.  Side  effects  of  bile  acid  binding  resins 
(colestipol,  colestyramine)  are  primarily  related  to  gastrointestinal  intolerance,  which  include 
symptoms  of  nausea,  bloating,  abdominal  pain,  and  constipation.  The  resins  must  be  taken  in  large 
quantities as a gritty powder mixed in water or as numerous large tablets.  
Cholestagel contains the active substance colesevelam hydrochloride, a poly (allylamine 
hydrochloride), cross-linked with epichlorohydrin and alkylated with (6-
bromohexyl)trimethylammonium bromide and 1-bromodecane.  
Colesevelam  is  a  novel  non-absorbed,  lipid-lowering  polymer  that  binds  bile  acids  in  the  intestine, 
impeding their reabsorption. Cholesterol is the sole precursor of bile acids. During normal digestion, 
bile  acids  are  secreted  into  the  intestine.  A  major  portion  of  bile  acids  is  then  absorbed  from  the 
intestinal  tract  and  returned  to  the  liver  via  the  enterohepatic  circulation.  The  LDL-C  lowering 
mechanism of bile acid sequestrants has been previously established as follows: As the bile acid pool 
becomes  depleted,  the  hepatic  enzyme,  cholesterol  7-α-hydroxylase,  is  upregulated,  which  increases 
the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids. This causes an increased demand for cholesterol in the liver 
cells,  resulting  in  the  dual  effects  of  increasing  transcription  and  activity  of  the  cholesterol 
biosynthetic enzyme, hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, and increasing the 
number  of  hepatic  LDL  receptors.  A  concomitant  increase  in  very  low-density  lipoprotein  (VLDL) 
synthesis  can  occur.  These  compensatory  effects  result  in  increased  clearance  of  LDL-C  from  the 
blood, resulting in decreased serum LDL-C levels. VLDL production may increase triglyceride levels. 
HDL cholesterol is generally unaffected or slightly increased. 
Cholestagel  is  indicated  for  co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in 
patients  with  primary  hypercholesterolaemia  who  are  not  adequately  controlled  with  a  statin  alone, 
and as monotherapy as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total and LDL-cholesterol 
in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin is considered inappropriate 
or is not well tolerated. 
Current  European  guidelines  should  be  consulted  to  establish  treatment  approaches  and  goals  for 
individual  patients.  Prior  to  initiating  therapy  with  Cholestagel  as  combination  therapy  or 
monotherapy, patients should be placed on a cholesterol-lowering diet and a lipid profile performed to 
assess  total-cholesterol  (total-C),  HDL-cholesterol  (HDL-C)  and  triglyceride  levels.  During  therapy, 
this diet should be continued, and serum total-C, LDL-C and triglyceride levels should be determined 
periodically during treatment to confirm favourable initial and adequate long-term responses. 
Cholestagel tablets should be taken orally with a meal and liquid. When a drug interaction cannot be 
excluded with a concomitant  medicinal product, that medication should be administered at least one 
1/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hour  before  or  four  hours  after  Cholestagel  to  minimize  the  risk  of  reduced  absorption  of  the 
concomitant medication. 
Combination therapy: Therapy with Cholestagel may be initiated when standard doses of the HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitor are inadequate  or not well  tolerated;  the  SPC for that  particular  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitor  should  be  consulted.  The  recommended  dose  of  Cholestagel  is  4  to  6  tablets  per 
day. The maximum recommended dose is 3 tablets taken twice per day with meals or 6 tablets taken 
once  per  day  with  a  meal.  Co-administration  with  atorvastatin,  lovastatin  or  simvastatin  in  clinical 
trials  shows  that  Cholestagel  can  be  dosed  at  the  same  time  as  one  of  these  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors or the two medicinal products can be dosed apart.  
Monotherapy:  The  recommended  starting  dose  of  Cholestagel  is  3 tablets  taken  twice  per  day  with 
meals or 6 tablets once per day with a meal. The maximum recommended dose is 7 tablets per day. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Composition 
Cholestagel  is  presented  as  film  coated  tablets  containing  625  mg  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  as 
active  ingredient.  Other  ingredients  include  microcrystalline  cellulose,  magnesium  stearate,  silica 
colloidal anhydrous, hypromellose and diacetylated monoglycerides.  
Cholestagel  is  packaged  in  high-density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottles  with  caps  and  induction  seal 
liners. 
Active substance 
Colesevelam hydrochloride is poly(allylamine hydrochloride), cross-linked with epichlorohydrin and 
alkylated with (6-bromohexyl)trimethylammonium bromide and 1-bromodecane.  
It is a white to off-white, non-crystalline hydroscopic powder, that is insoluble in all tested solvents 
(water, HCl, ammonium hydroxide, methylenechloride, acetonitrile, octanol and methanol). The pH is 
approximately  4.2 and the pK is 9.3. Colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  achiral and exhibits no potential 
for polymorphism since it is not crystalline 
The  main  steps  of  the  synthesis  of  the  active  substance  are  the  crosslinking  of  poly(allylamine 
hydrochloride)  and  the  alkylation  of  the  crosslinked  polymer.  The  route  of  synthesis  has  been 
sufficiently  described  and  the  major  steps  are  adequately  controlled  with  appropriate  in  process 
controls.  
Residual starting materials as well as organic impurities present in the starting materials are a source 
of  the  organic  impurities  in  the  active  substance  and  appropriate  tests  have  been  set  in  the  active 
substance  specifications.  There  are  five  potential  degradation  products  whose  limits  have  been 
qualified in toxicological studies according to ICH guidelines 
Active substance specification 
An  inherent  problem  for  cross-linked  polymers  like  colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  the  difficulties 
associated  with  their  characterisation,  as  NMR  and  IR  spectra  do  not  provide  detailed  information. 
Due  to  the  complex  structure  of  the  active  substanceno  direct  measurement  of  the  assay  can  be 
performed in both the active substance and the finished product. This leads to wider release and shelf 
life  specifications  than  those  commonly  applied  The  specification  of  the  active  substance  includes 
tests for description, identification (IR), bile acid binding (HPLC), loss on drying, organic impurities 
(GC,  IC,  HPLC  and  UV),  residual  solvents  (GC)  and  particle  size  and  size  distribution  (a  mean 
particle size of 15 to 50 µM). The limits for the impurities are justified by toxicological and stability 
studies.  
Batch analysis data have been provided for eight batches of colesevelam hydrochloride. The analytical 
results for all these batches comply with the proposed specification. 
2/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion  it  has  been  proven  that  the  tests  and  limits  in  the  specification  are  appropriate  for 
controlling the quality of the active substance. 
Stability of the active substance 
Stability studies have been performed according to the ICH guidelines at long term (25°C/60% RH) 
and at accelerated conditions (40 °C/75% RH). 
The parameters tested are appearance, bile acid binding, loss on drying, related substances by gas and 
ion  chromatography  and  microbial  testing  (at  specified  timepoints).  The  analytical  procedures  for 
stability  testing  were  the  same  as  those  used  for  the  release  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  and  were 
stability  indicating.The  stability  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  was  also  examined  under  “stress” 
temperature 
conditions.  These 
(40 ± 2°C/ambient humidity) and photostability testing. 
All parameters evaluated comply with the active substance specification. The stability data presented 
show that colesevelam hydrochloride is a very stable substance and support the proposed re-test period 
when stored under the specified conditions. 
temperature  cycling  (freeze-thaw  studies),  elevated 
included 
Other ingredients 
Each tablet core contains colesevelam hydrochloride, purified water, microcrystalline cellulose as dry 
binder, magnesium stearate as lubricant and silica, colloidal anhydrous as glidant.  
The  coating  is  composed  of  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose  as  a  film  former  and  diacetylated 
monoglycerides  as  plasticiser.  All  materials  used  are  of  non-animal  origin  and  comply  with  the  Ph. 
Eur. requirements.  
Product development and finished product 
During  preformulation  studies,  it  was  determined  that  colesevelam  hydrochloride  has  poor  flow 
properties  and  compressibility.  For  this  reason  dry  granulation  was  employed  to  improve  the  flow 
properties and increase the compressibility characteristics of the granules. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  dry  granulation  process  followed  by  tabletting  and  film 
coating of the tablets. 
The critical process parameters were identified during development and are adequately controlled. 
The process validation has been performed on three commercial batches having the same composition 
and  method  of  manufacture  as  the  proposed  commercial  formulation.  The  process  validation  criteria 
were met in all cases and all samples met the pre-defined acceptance criteria.  
The product used for clinical trials has been shown to be equivalent in terms of bile salt binding kinetics 
and binding isotherms with the one intended for marketing. 
Product specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for the description, identification (IR), 
bile acid  binding (HPLC), loss  on drying,  disintegration,  uniformity of  mass, related substances and 
impurities (GC, IC).  
The specification and control tests applied for the finished product at time of release and throughout 
the  life  of  the  product,  are  in  compliance  with  Ph  Eur  standards  and  ICH  guidelines.  The  limits  for 
each specification test are supported by stability data.  
Batch analysis data from 9 production and validation scale batches of the finished product have been 
provided. All batches met the test limits as set in the release specification of the finished product.  
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been conducted according to ICH guidelines at long term (25°C/60% RH) and 
accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) for up to 36 months and 6 months respectively on 26 batches 
of the drug product.  
The  parameters  studied  were  description,  bile  acid  binding  (IC),  loss  on  drying,  disintegration, 
uniformity of mass, related substances and impurities (GC, IC) and microbial limits. 
3/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the results of the above-mentioned studies it has been concluded that the proposed shelf life, 
of 2 years and the storage condition “Keep the container tightly closed” is acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The  quality  of  Cholestagel  is  adequately  documented.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from  EU  and 
ICH requirements. 
The  active  substance  is  a  very  stable  cross-linked  polymer.  Due  to  its  complex  nature  no  direct 
measurement of the assay of the active substance can be obtained, however its quality is satisfactorily 
characterised and documented. Bile acid binding capacity is the most relevant characteristic to clinical 
use.  The  excipients  and  the  packaging  material  chosen  are  commonly  used  in  these  types  of 
formulations. The manufacturing process of the finished product is a standard dry granulation process 
followed by the application of film coating and has been adequately described. Stability tests indicate 
that the product is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
GLP 
Except  for  the  investigations  of  the  effects  of  vitamin  supplementation  in  rats  and  mice,  all  pivotal 
safety studies generally followed ICH, CPMP and other relevant guidelines and were GLP compliant. 
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies 
From  the  in  vitro  studies  it  can  be  concluded  that  colesevelam,  colestipol,  and  cholestyramine 
demonstrated similar overall bile acid binding capacity when evaluated in  mixed bile acid solutions. 
Colestipol binds bile acids in a cooperative manner, as judged by sigmoidal plots of binding density 
versus  free  bile  acid  concentration.  In  contrast,  the  binding  curves  of  bile  acids  to  colesevelam  and 
cholestyramine show no evidence of cooperativity.  
At  all  free  ligand  concentrations,  colesevelam  binds  glycocholic  acid  significantly  more  tightly  than 
does  cholestyramine,  which  in  turn  proves  more  effective  than  colestipol.  In  contrast  to  the  clear 
distinction found for glycocholic acid, the bile acid binding behaviours of other common bile acids are 
very similar for colesevelam as for cholestyramine. Colestipol binding to all bile acids is significantly 
weaker, especially at higher binding densities. 
Fatty acids compete with bile acids for binding to colesevelam and cholestyramine. The reduction of 
bile acid binding to cholestyramine by fatty acids is greater than that to colesevelam. In addition, the 
dissociation of bile acids from colesevelam is retarded by the presence of fatty acids. 
In vivo studies 
The purpose of a first in vivo study was to compare the effects of colesevelam and cholestyramine on 
faecal bile  acid excretion in rats and hamsters. Colesevelam caused a dose-related increase in faecal 
bile acid excretion in rats. In this study, colesevelam was shown to be approximately twice as potent 
on a gram basis as was cholestyramine in increasing faecal excretion of bile acids. 
In  the  hamster  model,  colesevelam  caused  a  dose-dependent  increase  in  faecal  bile  acid  excretion. 
Colesevelam was at least twice as potent as cholestyramine in increasing faecal excretion of bile acids. 
The purpose of a second in vivo study was to evaluate the effect of treatment with colesevelam alone 
or  in  combination  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (lovastatin)  on  serum  cholesterol  levels  in 
beagle dogs administered the test material orally via a gelatin capsule once daily for 14 days. 
Thirty  (30)  male  beagle  dogs  of  approximately  12.6  months  of  age  were  screened  for  serum 
cholesterol levels  and selected for study  based  upon  a  <10%  variation  between consecutive screens. 
Animals  received  colesevelam  alone  (300  or  1000  mg/kg/day),  lovastatin  (5  mg/kg)  alone,  or  both 
drugs in combination once a day for a total of 15 days. 
Colesevelam alone reduced serum cholesterol by 7 and 23% when administered at doses of 300 and 
1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, for 15 days. Lovastatin (5 mg/kg/day) alone reduced serum cholesterol 
4/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by  19%.  The  combination  reduced  serum  cholesterol  by  34  and  58%  at  300  and  1000  mg/kg/day, 
respectively. The effect of the combination was greater than the effect of either agent alone. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  performed.  The  lack  of  absorption  of  colesevelam 
suggested that these studies would be of limited value. 
Safety pharmacology 
No specific safety pharmacology studies were conducted. The lack of absorption of colesevelam, its 
insolubility and the range of toxicology studies can justify this omission. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No studies were carried out on pharmacological drug interactions. Since colesevelam hydrochloride is 
not  absorbed,  interactions  are  more  likely  to  be  associated  with  issues  related  to  absorption  and 
binding in the gastrointestinal tract (see also Pharmacokinetic drug interactions).  
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  a  polymeric  substance  that  is  insoluble  in  aqueous  solution.  The  size 
distribution is controlled to ensure that particles are of a size that is essentially not absorbed from the 
gastrointestinal tract. The particles themselves are cationic and face a significant barrier to absorption 
through the highly anionic mucus layer that lines the entire intestine. Therefore, absorption of intact 
particles  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  expected  to  be  negligible.  Traditional  absorption, 
distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  studies  were  therefore  not  conducted  with  colesevelam 
hydrochloride.  
Excretion  balance  studies  with  radiolabeled  colesevelam  hydrochloride  were  conducted 
demonstrate the non-absorbed nature of the product in male rat and male dog.  
For both groups, the plasma radioactivity levels were low. As total radioactivity was measured, it is 
not known what compound is detected in the plasma. The plasma radioactivity levels were very low 
indicating that systemic exposure of [
C] - colesevelam HCl is very low. 
to 
14
Distribution 
The  distribution  of  [14C]-colesevelam  hydrochloride  following  oral  administration  to  male  rats  and 
male  dogs  were  evaluated.  Animals  were  sacrificed  at  72  hours  (dogs)  or  at  96  hours  (rats)  after 
dosing  of  [14C]-colesevelam  hydrochloride.  No  detectable  levels  of  compound  other  than  a  minor 
amount of radioactivity within the stomach were retained within the examined tissues of rats. In dogs, 
the  levels  of  radioactivity  in  blood,  plasma,  and  most  tissues  were  below  the  lower  limit  of 
quantification. Only the liver and gastrointestinal tract contained minimal quantities of radioactivity. 
No important differences were noted between single or repeated oral dosing, indicating that a 1-month 
colesevelam hydrochloride pretreatment did not have impact on the distribution of [14C]-colesevelam 
hydrochloride. 
The  retention  of  radioactivity  in  the  tissues  was  measured  without  information  on  tissue  clearance. 
However, in the toxicity studies no toxicity in the gastrointestinal tract or in the liver was observed, 
indicating that the presence of radioactive material does not seem to have adverse consequences. 
Due to low recovery of radiolabel in the dog, a second distribution study was done in dogs. Since full 
recovery was achieved in these samples, no other samples were counted.  
Metabolism  
No metabolite profiling work was done because of the non-absorbable nature of the compound and no 
significantly absorbable metabolites seem to be produced.  
Excretion 
The excretion of [14C]-colesevelam hydrochloride following oral administration to male rats and male 
dogs was evaluated.  
In both species, the radiolabel was shown to be almost completely eliminated within 48 hours via the 
faeces with  only traces of radioactivity in  the  urine  (<0.2% of  the  applied dose). The excretion  data 
5/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  characterised  by  a  low  inter-animal  variability.  No  important  differences  were  noted  between 
single  dosed  or  repeated  dosed  dogs,  suggesting  that  a  1-month  colesevelam  hydrochloride 
pretreatment  did  not  have  any  impact  on  the  absorption  and  distribution  of  [14C]-colesevelam 
hydrochloride.  
Recovery of polymer over 72 hours was not 100% in the first dog study. However, it is unlikely that it 
was due to absorption of the drug. The bulk of excreted radioactivity appeared in the faeces within 48 
hours and no radioactivity was recovered from any tissues or contents within the animal. Indeed, in the 
second  dog  study  conducted  following  the  same  protocol  and  using  newly  synthesised  radiolabeled 
compound  (higher  specific  activity),  total  excretion  balance  was  found  to  be  complete.  Faeces 
contained 100% of the 14C-label. Bile, plasma and urine contained only 0.13 to 0.15% of the dose.  
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Colesevelam hydrochloride is a bile acid binding polymer that acts by ion exchange of chloride for a 
negatively charged bile acid. Because colesevelam hydrochloride is anticipated not to be absorbed, it 
is likely that any drug interactions would be limited to an effect on absorption secondary to binding of 
the  interacting  drug  by  the  polymer.  Because  of  its  ion  exchange  characteristics  it  is  possible  that 
colesevelam hydrochloride will bind negatively charged drugs and inhibit their absorption. In addition, 
because  bile  acids  are  required  for  absorption  of  several  fat-soluble  substances,  colesevelam 
hydrochloride could interfere with drug absorption by an effect secondary to bile acid sequestration.  
Seven drugs were chosen based upon their known interactions with cholestyramine (warfarin, valproic 
acid,  verapamil,  quinidine,  tetracycline)  or  on  the  basis  of  their  likelihood  of  being  utilised 
concurrently with  colesevelam hydrochloride  (lisinopril and  metoprolol). The relative  bioavailability 
by comparing the rate and extent of absorption of the drugs was determined after oral administration 
of 100 mg/kg alone or in combination with colesevelam hydrochloride in male beagle dogs. 
The  results  of  this  study  indicate  that  colesevelam  hydrochloride  does  not  alter  the  pharmacokinetic 
properties of the seven drugs used in this study. However, inspite of the many similarities between the 
gastrointestinal  physiology  of  dogs  and  humans,  the  composition  of  bile  salts  is  markedly  different 
between dog and man. Thus, in contrast to man, the bile acids in dog are exclusively conjugated with 
taurine.  Furthermore,  cholic  acid  was  predominantly  found  in  dog  bile  (~80%),  whereas  cholic  acid 
contributed  only  for  ~40%  in  man.  As  a  consequence,  the  concentration  of  100  mg/kg  colesevelam 
hydrochloride in dog is probably not as effective as a bile sequestrant as the clinical dosing in  man. 
This  was  supported  by  the  observation  that  only  at  300  mg/kg  colesevelam  hydrochloride  or  higher 
dosing plasma cholesterol lowering activity was observed in dogs.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No single-dose toxicity studies were conducted. This omission was justified by the high doses used in 
the repeat-dose studies (in the region of 2 to 3 g/kg/day). Furthermore, the mouse micronucleus study 
included  doses  up  to  5  g/kg/day  administered  on  two  successive  days.  In  this  study,  non-specific 
clinical signs were noted, including distended abdomen, irregular breathing, lethargy, diarrhoea, and 3 
of  30  mice  died  at  that  high  dose.  In  mice,  the  LD50  is  higher  than  5  g/kg/day.  The  maximum 
therapeutic dose (MTD) is 73 mg colesevelam HCl/kg/day (based on a 60 kg human). Thus, the dose 
administered to mice is a 68-fold multiple of the human dose.  
Repeat dose toxicity  
The repeat-dose toxicity of colesevelam hydrochloride was evaluated by oral administration in rats (90 
days and 6 months) and dogs (13 weeks and 1 year). The treatment related effects observed in the 90-
day study were related to the pharmacodynamic properties of colesevelam. The NOAEL in this study 
is 0.3 g/kg/day and the LOAEL is 1.5 g/kg/day, which corresponds, respectively, to 4 and 21 times the 
maximum therapeutic dose (MTD).  
For  the  6-month  rat  study,  no  significant  adverse  treatment-related  effects  were  observed  on  body 
weight  (change),  clinical  signs  or  ophthalmologic  findings.  There  were  no  treatment  related 
macroscopic  changes.  The  microscopic  lesions  observed  were  observed  throughout  all  groups  and 
were  therefore  not  considered  related  to  treatment.  By  lowering  the  maximum  dose  the  lethal 
6/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hemorrhagic effects associated with vitamin depletion had been eliminated. The NOAEL and LOAEL 
of this study was 0.2 and 1.2 g/kg/day (i.e. 2.7 and 16 times the MTD).  
For  the  13-week  dog  study,  there  was  a  slight  decrease  in  body  weight  gain  and  food  intake.  All 
effects reported can be considered as directly or indirectly related to treatment. In addition, only slight 
reductions in red blood cell parameters were observed in high dose animals. In contrast to rats, plasma 
cholesterol  levels  were  reduced  in  dogs.  The  NOAEL  and  LOAEL  in  this  study  was  0.2  and 
0.67 mg/kg/day, respectively ( i.e. 2.7 and 9 times the MTD). 
For  the  1-year  dog  study,  increases  in  urinary  volume  and  chloride  levels  were  seen  mainly  in  high 
dose  animals.  All  effects  reported  can  be  considered  as  directly  or  indirectly  related  to  treatment. 
Decrease  of  vitamin  D  and  E  levels  were  dose-related  both  in  females  and  males.  In  females,  the 
decrease of vitamin A level was also dose-related, whereas in male dogs the vitamin A level was only 
lowered  in  the  HD  group.  There  was  higher  urinary  excretion  of  calcium  and  chloride  in  all  treated 
animals and the dose-related decrease of urinary phosphate excretion in HD animals. After a 4-week 
recovery period, RBC, Hb, Ht, MCHC and MCV slightly deviated from normal levels in HD animals. 
Vitamin A, D and E levels returned to sub-normal levels in HD recovery animals. The NOAEL was 
0,2 g/kg/day (2.7x MTD) and the LOAEL was 0.6 g/kg/day (8x MTD). 
Interspecies comparison 
In rats, dogs, and humans given a single dose of [14C]-colesevelam hydrocloride, the bulk of excreted 
radioactivity  appeared  in  the  faeces  and  no  radioactivity  beyond  minimal  quantities  in  any  tissues, 
plasma or urine were measured after a 72 hour or 96 hour period in dog and rat, respectively. These 
data  are  consistent  with  the  non-absorbable  nature  of  the  compound.  The  NOAEL  in  rats  and  dogs 
were 0.2-0.6 g/kg/day. The recommended human therapeutic dose is 50-70 mg/kg/day.  
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
The  genotoxicity  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  has  been  studied  with  respect  to  gene  mutations  in 
prokaryotic cells (Ames test) and chromosome aberrations in eukaryotic (CHO) cells and with respect 
to  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vivo  (micronucleus  test).  Due  to  the  insolubility  of  colesevelam  in 
aqueous  media  the  tests  have  been  performed  with  an  HCl  extract  of  the  active  compound.  No 
genotoxicity was observed in any of these studies. 
Carcinogenicity  
A dietary carcinogenicity study of colesevelam in the albino mouse: 
Five groups of Swiss mice (Crl:CD-(ICR)BR,) received colesevelam mixed in diet at 0 (basal diet)-0 
(vitamin-supplemented basal diet)-0.3-1.0-3.0 g/kg/day for 104 weeks. Vitamin D and E of all groups 
were determined every 6 months in 5 animals/group. Reduced body weights were noted in high-dose 
males.  No  treatment-related  effects  were  noted  at  blood  smear  examination  or  in  ophtalmology 
parameters. Serum vitamin E concentrations were not significantly different from the controls in the 
groups fed vitamin-supplemented plus test article-supplemented diets. Survival in some groups was as 
low  as  30%,  although  there  was  no  significant  difference  between  test  and  control  groups.  There 
seemed to be no difference in the incidences of neoplasms between test and control groups. However, 
examinations for neoplastic lesions in some tissues were conducted on a very low number of samples.  
A dietary carcinogenicity study of colesevelam in the albino rat: 
Sprague-Dawley CD  rats received  colesevelam  mixed in the diet  at doses  of  0-0.8-1.6-2.4  g/kg/day. 
Because the animals in the high-dose group did not tolerate 2.4 g/kg/day, the study was aborted after 6 
weeks. 
A dietary carcinogenicity study of colesevelam in the albino rat: 
Swiss  CD(Crl:CD(SD)BR  rats  received  colesevelam  mixed  in  the  diet  at  0  (basal  diet  only)-0 
(vitamin-supplemented  basal  diet)-0.4-1.2-2.4  g/kg/day  for  104  weeks.  The  test  article  had  no 
influence  on  survival.  However,  in  all  groups  the  survival  rate  was  lower  for  males  (except  for  the 
high-dose group) than for females. Reduced body weights and body weight gains were noted in high-
dose males. A statistically significant decrease in vitamin D levels was noted for high-dose males. In 
rats there was a slight increase in pancreatic acinar cell adenoma in males at the high and intermediate 
dose (doses >16 times the maximum human dose). This finding is not considered clinically relevant. 
7/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a  slight  increase  in  C-cell  adenoma  of  the  thyroid  in  high-dose  males  and  females, 
otherwise  there  seemed  to  be  no  treatment-related  increase  in  the  incidence  of  neoplasms.  The 
occurrence  of  thyroid  adenomas  is  a  common  type  of  tumour  in  old  rats,  and  the  slight  difference 
between test and control animals may be incidental 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
The reproductive toxicity of orally administered colesevelam hydrochloride was studied in a Segment 
I study in rats, a Segment II study in rats and rabbits, and in a Segment III study in rats.  
Study design 
Major Findings 
Study Type/ 
Study ID / GLP 
Male 
female 
and 
fertility  and  general 
toxicity 
reproduction 
study 
(GT-02-TX-12) 
(GLP study) 
Species; 
Number/ 
sex/group 
Sprague 
Dawley 
(CD) 
(25/sex 
/gp) 
rat; 
Embryofetal 
/ 
developmental  toxicity 
study 
(GT-02-TX-13) 
(GLP study) 
Sprague 
Dawley 
(CD) rat 
(25  dams 
/gp) 
Route & Dose 
(g/kg/day) 
Oral (diet)1.  
0 
0 
(gp1); 
article; 
control 
(gp2); 0,2 (gp3); 
1 (gp4) and  
2 (gp5) 
Oral (diet)2.  
0 
0 
(gp1); 
control 
article; 
(gp2); 0,3 (gp3); 
1 (gp4) and  
3 (gp5) 
Embryofetal 
/ 
developmental  toxicity 
study (GT-02-TX-14) 
(GLP study) 
Rabbit 
(20  dams 
/gp) 
Oral (gavage). 
0 
0.1 
(gp1). 
(gp2),  0.5  (gp3) 
and 1 (gp4) 
of 
Dosing  in  males:  from  day 
28  premating  to  sacrifice 
(after  mating).  Dosing  in 
females:  day  15  premating 
to  day  7  of  gestation. 
Caesarean  section  on  day 
20 of gestation.  
Pregnant 
females  were 
dosed  from  Day  7  through 
17  of  presumed  gestation. 
Caesarean  section  on  Day 
20 
gestation. 
Histological examination of 
female  reproductive  organs 
and 
external 
visceral/skeletal 
examination of litters.  
Pregnant 
females  were 
dosed  from  Day  6  through 
18  of  presumed  gestation. 
Caesarean  section  on  Day 
20 of gestation. 
Histological examination of 
female  reproductive  organs 
and 
external 
visceral/skeletal 
examination of litters. 
effects 
increased 
treatment-related 
No 
adverse 
on 
reproductive  parameters. 
Food  consumption  was 
slightly 
and 
body  weight  gain  slightly 
reduced. 
No 
adverse effects.  
Food  consumption  was 
increased  from  Day  10 
onwards  and  body  weight 
gain  was  reduced  in  gp  5 
from Day 15-18. 
treatment-related 
treatment-related 
No 
adverse effects. 
Food  consumption  and 
body weight gain of dams 
was not affected. 
is 
The  maternal  no  adverse 
effect  level  (NOAEL)  for 
colesevelam 
hydrochloride 
0.5 
g/kg/day.  The  1  g/kg/day 
dosage  slightly  reduced 
body  weight  gains  and 
absolute 
food 
consumption  values.  The 
developmental  NOAEL 
for 
colesevelam 
hydrochloride was at least 
1  g/kg/day  (i.e.  13  times 
the MTD). 
No 
adverse effects  
treatment-related 
(g/day) 
*Peri & postnatal study 
(GT-02-TX-30) 
(GLP-study) 
Sprague 
Dawley 
(CD) rat 
(24  dams 
/gp) 
Oral (gavage3) 
0 
0.1 
(gp1); 
(gp2);  0.3  (gp3) 
and 1 (gp4)  
Dams were dosed from Day 
6  of  gestation  to  Day  20, 
21,  or  22  post  partum, 
inclusive.  One  male  and  1 
female  were 
randomly 
selected from each litter, to 
form the adult F1 generation 
on  Day  21  post  partum. 
8/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
killed 
Those 
rats  not  selected 
were 
and 
examined. 
pathologically 
The  F1  generation  was 
physical 
examined 
for 
development, 
sensory/ 
development, 
reflex 
behaviour, and reproductive 
performance. 
1) gp 1 received basal diet, gp2 received cellulose at 2 g/kg/day (cellulose control) 
2) gp 1 received basal diet and gp 2 received cellulose at 3 g/kg/day (cellulose control) 
3) dose depicted is the total daily dose. Dams were dosed twice a day with half of the total daily dose. 
No  treatment-related  adverse  effects  were  found  in  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies.  This  is  not 
surprising as colesevelam does not reach the plasma. The only effect observed is the known effect on 
food  consumption  and  body  weight  gain  when  colesevelam  was  administered  to  the  animals  via  the 
diet. 
Local tolerance  
No  local  tolerance  studies  have  been  performed  by  the  applicant.  By  virtue  of  its  route  of 
administration, colesevelam might induce local adverse effects in the (gastro)intestinal tract. However, 
macroscopic  and  histopathological  evaluation  of  the  gastrointestinal  tract  of  animals  after  repeated 
dosing with colesevelam revealed no evidence for these effects.  
Impurities 
The  applicant  has  conducted  toxicity  studies  on  4  impurities  (degradants)  of  colesevelam 
hydrochloride,  (decylamine  HCL,  didecylamine  HCL,  decylamino-6-hexytrimethyl  ammonium 
chloride  hydrochloride,  and  aminohexyltrimethylammonium  chloride  hydrochloride).  Each  impurity 
has been tested for up to 15 mg/kg/day. No treatment-related adverse effects have been observed in the 
repeated dose toxicity studies. 
The submitted repeated dose studies with the impurities are, however, acceptable taking into account 
the absence of adverse effects of these impurities and because the tested impurities will most probably 
not  be  absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Further, in  view of their molecular structure it is not 
likely that these compounds are genotoxic. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Colesevelam hydrochloride, the active ingredient in Cholestagel, is a novel bile acid sequestrant.  
In  the  pharmacodynamic  in  vitro  study,  colesevelam,  colestipol  and  cholestyramine  demonstrated 
similar  overall  bile  acid  binding  capacity  when  evaluated  in  mixed  bile  acid  solutions.  At  all  free 
ligand concentrations, colesevelam was found to bind glycocholic acid (GC) significantly more tightly 
than did cholestyramine, which in turn was more effective than colestipol. This is an important finding 
since  GC  is  the  major  bile  acid  in  humans.  In  contrast  to  the  clear  distinction  for  GC,  the  bile  acid 
(TCDC), 
binding  capacity  of 
glycodeoxycholic acid (GDC), glycocholicdeoxycholic acid (GCDC) and taurocholic acid (TC) were 
very similar for colesevelam and cholestyramine. 
taurocholicdeoxycholic  acid 
taurodeoxycholic  acid 
(TDC), 
The  in  vivo  studies  in  hamsters  and  rats  confirmed  that  colesevelam  is  effective  in  enhancing  the 
faecal  excretion  of  bile  acids.  Both  colesevelam  hydrochloride  and  cholestyramine  cause  a  dose-
dependent increase in bile acid sequestration in these two rodent species. Colesevelam was at least 2-
fold  more  potent  and  efficacious  in  increasing  faecal  bile  acid  excretion  in  both  models  than  was 
cholestyramine. 
The in vivo study in dogs confirms that colesevelam lowered plasma cholesterol levels. Colesevelam 
alone  reduced  serum  cholesterol  by  7  and  23%  when  administered  at  doses  of  300  and  1000 
mg/kg/day,  respectively,  for  15  days.  It  can  be  argued  that  in  dogs  taurocholic  acid  instead  of 
9/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
glycocholic  acid  is  the  major  bile  acid,  however  this  may  rather  support  than  undermine  the 
cholesterol lowering potency of colesevelam.  
Lovastatin (5 mg/kg/day) alone reduced serum cholesterol by 19%. The combination reduced  serum 
cholesterol  by  34  and  58%  at  300  and  1000  mg/kg/day,  respectively.  The  effect  of  the  combination 
was greater than the effect of either agent alone. These data provide a scientific rationale for the single 
use of colesevelam for lowering cholesterol as well as for the use in combination with statins.  
It can be concluded that the data on in vitro bile acid binding, the in vivo bile acid excretion in rats and 
hamsters, and plasma cholesterol lowering in dogs, support the mechanism of action of colesevelam as 
a  bile  acid  sequestering  and  cholesterol-lowering  polymer.  Both  the  in  vitro  and  the  in  vivo  studies 
were conducted in generally accepted and appropriate models.  
Colesevelam hydrochloride is a polymer that is not likely to be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract 
due  its  particle  size.  The  absence  of  specific  safety  pharmacology  studies  and  secondary 
pharmacodynamic  studies  is  justified  by  the  insolubility  of  colesevelam  and  by  the  observation  that 
colesevelam is not absorbed. 
Traditional  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  studies  were  not  conducted  with 
colesevelam hydrochloride, as absorption was expected to be negligible. The results of the excretion 
balance studies in rat and dog (and in human) showed that the bulk of radioactivity was excreted in the 
faeces and no radioactivity beyond minimal quantities in any tissues, plasma or urine after a 72-hour 
or 96-hour period in dog and rat, respectively, and were consistent with the non-absorbable nature of 
colesevelam hydrochloride. 
Because  colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  not  absorbed,  it  is  likely  that  any  drug  interactions  would  be 
limited to an effect on absorption of the medicinal product. The dog was chosen as the animal model 
to  study  these  interactions.  Seven  medicinal  products  were  chosen  based  upon  their  known 
interactions with cholestyramine (warfarin, valproic acid, verapamil, quinidine, and tetracycline) or on 
the basis of their likelihood of being utilised concurrently with colesevelam hydrochloride (lisinopril 
and  metoprolol).  The  dose  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride  utilised  (100 mg/kg)  is  approximately 
1.4-fold the maximum projected human dose of 4.5 grams per day (73 mg/kg). However, despite the 
many similarities between the gastrointestinal physiology of dogs and humans, the composition of bile 
salts is markedly different between dog and man.  
As  a  result  of  the  non-absorbable  nature  of  colesevelam,  any  toxicity  noted  is  thus  likely  to  be 
secondary to effects within the gastrointestinal tract. The toxicology studies were conducted in male 
and  female  rats  and  dogs.  In  the  rat  studies,  toxic  effects  included  anaemia  and  elevated  levels  of 
enzymes indicating liver and possibly skeletal and heart muscle injury. This can be explained by the 
decreased  levels  of  fat-soluble  vitamins  observed,  particularly  vitamins  E  and  K.  From  the  anaemia 
and  haemorrhages  observed,  vitamin  K  levels  are  considered  to  be  decreased  as  well,  although  the 
levels were not analysed. In the rat studies, females seemed to be more sensitive for toxic liver effects 
than  males,  whereas  males  seemed  to  be  more  sensitive  than  females  in  developing  fatal 
haemorrhages. The Harlan rat strain seemed to be most sensitive in developing anaemia. NOAEL in 
rats was about 0.2 g/kg/day. No repeat dose toxicology beyond 6 months was conducted in rats. 
In  the  dog,  studies  of  13  weeks  and  1  year  were  conducted.  Again,  decreased  levels  of  fat-soluble 
vitamins were measured (A, D and E), whereas vitamin K was probably not severely affected, since 
haemorrhages  were  not  observed.  NOAEL  was  suggested  to  be  2.0  g/kg/day,  however  from  the 
findings  of  decreased  vitamin  levels,  increased  alkaline  phosphatase  levels,  and  decreased  body 
weights in the high-dose groups; NOAEL should rather be set to 0.6 g/kg/day. 
The maximum doses used in the toxicology studies were in the range of 2 to 3.6 g/kg/day. This is 27 
to 50 times the maximum human therapeutic dose (MTD) of approximately 73 mg/kg/day for a 60 kg 
person. Compared to the NOAEL in rats and dogs, the safety factor in humans at daily doses of 50-70- 
mg/kg would be about 2-3, which is a very low margin of safety.  
The contaminants decylamine HCl, aminohexyltrimethyl ammonium chloride HCl, didecylamine and 
decylamino-6-hexyltrimethyl  ammonium  chloride,  have  been  sufficiently  qualified.  They  were 
individually  tested  in  the  bacterial  mutation  test  (S  typhymurium,  E  Coli)  and  in  CHO  cells.  No 
evidence for genotoxicity of these compounds was found. In addition, the above-mentioned impurities 
10/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been tested in a 28 day repeated dose toxicity study in rats. No treatment-related adverse effects 
have been observed. The submitted repeated dose studies with the impurities are acceptable taking into 
account the absence of adverse effects of these impurities and because the tested impurities will most 
probably not be absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.  
Based on its molecular structure, no genotoxic properties are expected from the active compound.  
The Ames test and CHO test revealed no evidence for genotoxic potential of components in the HCl 
extract of Colesevelam. The in vivo mouse micronucleus test with Colesevelam was negative, but can 
be  considered  meaningless  due  to  its  low  to  absent  intestinal  absorption.  Possible  (local)  genotoxic 
effects  are  not  to  be  expected.  Due  to  its  molecular  size  it  is  unlikely  that  it  will  gain  access  to  the 
genetic material in the cellular tissue.  
The  interpretation  of  the  mouse  and  rat  carcinogenicity  studies  may  be  hampered  by  low  survival 
throughout the study groups. In the mouse study, there are no treatment-related tumour findings in the 
mouse study up to 3 g/kg/day, which equals 40 times the MTD. In addition, there are no treatment-
related  tumour  findings  in  the  rat  carcinogenicty  study  up  to  2.4  g/kg/day, which  equals  roughly  30 
times the MTD.  
When  tested  in  a  complete  panel  of  reproduction  toxicity  studies,  colesevelam  did  not  induce 
treatment-related effects on fertility, embryonic or postnatal development.  
Colesevelam is a substance of low acute toxicity. However, the safety margin in humans on repeated 
dosing  for  long  periods  is  rather  low.  It  should  be  noted  that  secondary  toxic  effects  may  develop 
because  of  the  ability  of  colesevelam  to  produce  depletion  of  fat-soluble  vitamins,  particularly 
vitamins  E  and  K.  Vitamin  E  depletion  results  in  tissue  damage  of  the  liver,  the  skeletal  and  heart 
muscles,  and  blood  vessels  in  most  mammalian  species,  as  visualised  by  the  increase  in  enzyme 
characteristics for liver in the preclinical studies. Vitamin K depletion results in serious imbalance in 
the  coagulation  system,  as  demonstrated  in  the  preclinical  studies.  The  animal  studies  demonstrated 
that whereas short-time exposure was well tolerated, chronic exposure required the supplementation of 
fat-soluble vitamins in order to avoid vitamin depletion.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
GCP 
All clinical studies were conducted according to current GCP guidelines.  
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 
Overview of Clinical Pharmacology Programme 
Study  
Objective(s)  of  the 
Study 
GTC-48-
803 
(PK) 
Determine  the  extent 
14C-colesevelam 
of 
HCl absorption 
Study  Design; 
Type 
of 
Control; 
Duration 
Treatment 
of 
Open-label, 
single  arm;  28 
days  +  single 
radio-labelled 
dose 
Test  Product(s);  Dosage 
Regimen; 
of 
Administration 
Route 
Healthy 
Subjects 
or 
Diagnosis  of 
Patients; (n) 
Capsules;  1.9  g  BID  x  28 
days, orally then a single 2.4 
g  dose  of  14C-colesevelam 
HCl (480µCi), oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=20 
11/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  
Objective(s)  of  the 
Study 
GTC-37-
801 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
804 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
805 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
806 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
807 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
808 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
809 
(PK) 
GTC-48-
802 
(PD) 
Assess 
between 
and Cholestagel 
interaction 
lovastatin 
Assess  the  effect  of 
Cholestagel 
on 
quinidine PK 
Assess  the  effect  of 
Cholestagel 
on 
valproic acid PK 
Assess  the  effect  of 
on 
Cholestagel 
digoxin PK 
Assess  the  effect  of 
Cholestagel 
on 
warfarin PK 
Assess  the  effect  of 
Cholestagel 
on 
verapamil PK 
Assess  the  effect  of 
Cholestagel 
on 
metoprolol PK 
Investigate  effects  of 
Cholestagel  on  sterol 
metabolism 
Study  Design; 
of 
Type 
Control; 
Duration 
Treatment 
of 
Open-label, 
randomised,  3-
period, 
crossover; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Open-label, 
sequential 
treatment; 
Single dose 
Test  Product(s);  Dosage 
of 
Regimen; 
Administration 
Route 
Healthy 
or 
Subjects 
Diagnosis  of 
Patients; (n) 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=24 
Lovastatin 
tablet,  20  mg; 
Cholestagel  capsules  (2.3  g) 
+  lovastatin  (20  mg)  taken 
Cholestagel 
together; 
capsules  (2.3  g)  +  lovastatin  
(20  mg) 
taken  apart.  All 
given orally 
gluconate  ER 
Quinidine 
tablets,  324  mg;  Cholestagel 
capsules  4.5  g  +  quinidine 
gluconate tablets 324 mg; all 
oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=26 
Valproic  acid  capsules,  250 
mg; Cholestagel capsules 4.5 
g + valproic acid 250 mg; all 
oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=26 
Digoxin 
tablets,  0.25  mg; 
Cholestagel  capsules  4.5  g  + 
digoxin 0.25 mg; all oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=26 
Warfarin  sodium  tablets,  10 
mg; Cholestagel capsules 4.5 
g  +  warfarin  sodium  10 mg; 
all oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=26 
Verapamil  HCl  tablets,  240 
mg; Cholestagel capsules 4.5 
g  +  verapamil  HCl  240 mg; 
all oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=32 
Metoprolol,  100  mg,  oral; 
Cholestagel  capsules  4.5  g  + 
metoprolol 100 mg; all oral 
Healthy 
Subjects; 
n=36 
Capsules,  2.3  g  or  3.8  g  per 
day as split doses, oral 
Randomised, 
open-label, 
parallel 
design; 
days 
28 
to 
Mild 
moderate 
hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
n=24 
Pharmacokinetics 
A total of 8 studies were submitted in which human pharmacokinetics of Cholestagel were evaluated: 
one  absorption  study  with  14C-colesevelam  and  seven  interaction  studies  (see  table  above).  ADME 
12/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies  in  humans  were  limited  to  absorption,  because  colesevelam  hydrochloride  is  an  insoluble 
polymeric substance that was not anticipated to be absorbed. 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
The absorption of Colesevelam has been determined in study GTC-48-803 in healthy volunteers. The 
absence of pharmacokinetic data in patients was justified by the applicant because there is no reason to 
believe that the pharmacokinetic profile of Colesevelam in patients would differ from that in normal 
volunteers.  
16 subjects received an oral administration of  14C-colesevelam (2400 mg dose as 6 capsules 400 mg 
Cholestagel).  Studies  examining  polymer  absorption  rely  on  radiolabelling  the  polymer  to  assess 
uptake  by  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  The  study  demonstrated  that  colesevelam  is  almost  completely 
eliminated through the gastrointestinal tract system with negligible absorption. However, incomplete 
recovery was reported and a large variability in individual excretion was observed. Discrepancies were 
explained by incomplete faecal collections. The relatively low levels of radioactivity in whole blood 
and urine were probably caused by the residual radioactivity not incorporated into the polymer.  
Comparison of trial formulations with finished product 
The  majority  of  clinical  trials  were  conducted  with  Cholestagel  capsules,  while  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Application  is  for  Cholestagel  tablets.  The  change  in  formulation  from  capsules  to 
tablets was made to decrease the number of units administered (375 mg capsules vs. 625 mg tablets).  
Three  lots  of  Cholestagel  tablets  and  three  lots  of  Cholestagel  capsules  were  tested  for  in  vitro 
equivalency  of  their  bile  acid  binding  kinetics  and  binding  isotherms.  Both  the  amounts  of  the  bile 
acid sodium salts, glycocholic acid (GC), glycochenodeoxycholic acid (GCDC), and taurodeoxycholic 
acid (TDC) bound by Cholestagel capsules and tablets at equilibrium and the kinetics for each dosage 
form  were sufficiently comparable. These  data  support the conclusion that Cholestagel capsules and 
tablets are equivalent. Further, lipid values from a small open tolerability study including 20 healthy 
volunteers taking tablets suggest that the efficacy is similar for tablets and capsules.  
Influence of food 
To examine the influence of various beverages on in vitro bile acid binding of Cholestagel tablets, the 
binding  of  Cholestagel  tablets  after  disintegration  in  various  beverages  to  the  bile  acid  salts 
glycocholic acid (GC), glycochenodeoxycholic acid (GCDC), and taurodeoxycholic acid (TDC) were 
investigated.  Both  the  amounts  of  the  bile  acid  sodium  salts  bound  by  colesevelam  tablets  at 
equilibrium and the kinetics were sufficiently comparable after pretreatment (equilibrium  study) and 
in solution with (kinetics study) the different beverages tested. The binding of colesevelam to the bile 
acids,  was  shown  not  to  be  influenced  by  common  beverages  (water,  carbonated  water,  carbonated 
sweetened beverages, grape juice, orange juice, tomato juice, sports drinks, or 1% milk). 
Special populations 
The safety and efficacy of Cholestagel have not been established in children and adolescent patients; 
therefore, the use of Cholestagel in these patient populations is not recommended. 
in 
tract, 
the  gastro-intestinal 
thereby  producing  alterations 
Interaction studies 
A known problem in the use of currently approved bile acid sequestrants is their tendency to interact 
the 
with  other  substances 
pharmacokinetics  of  these  medicinal  products.  Seven  studies  addressed  the  influence  of  Cholestagel 
on pharmacokinetics of the following substances: lovastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor likely 
to be co-administered with Cholestagel; digoxin and warfarin, agents with narrow therapeutic indices, 
both  of  which  have  been  reported  to  interact  with  cholestyramine  and  colestipol,  verapamil  and 
metoprolol,  commonly  used  drugs  in  patients  with  cardiovascular  disease;  quinidine,  an  anti-
arrhythmic  with  a  narrow  therapeutic  index;  and  valproic  acid,  an  anti-seizure  medication  that  has 
been  reported  to  interact  with  cholestyramine.  In  six  of  the  seven  studies,  Cholestagel  was 
administered  at  the  maximum  proposed  dose  of  4.5  g/day,  thus  maximising  the  probability  of 
observing an effect of Cholestagel on absorption of the co-administered drug. In the interaction study 
with  lovastatin  a  dose  of  2.3  g/day  was  administered.  In  all  of  the  studies,  Cholestagel  was 
administered as a single dose with a meal. 
in 
13/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cholestagel  had  no  influence  on  the  bioavailability  of  lovastatin  when  administered  simultaneously 
together  with  the  evening  meal.  However,  the  doses  of  both  colesevelam  (2.3  g)  and  lovastatin  (20 
mg) were low and a study should have been performed with maximum recommended doses of both 
drugs.  When  lovastatin  was  administered  4  hours  later  than  Cholestagel  statistical  significant 
differences were found in Cmax (decrease of 63 %) and AUC0-t decrease of 37 % of lovastatin and Cmax 
(increase  of  61  %)  and  AUC0-t  (increase  of  50  %)  of  lovastatin  hydroxyacid.  These  differences  are 
explained  by  the  applicant  as  most  likely  contributed  to  food  interactions  and  time  dependency  of 
lovastatin.  
Colesevelam administered together with quinidine, valproic acid, digoxin, warfarin, or metoprolol did 
not significantly reduce the bioavailability of these study drugs. However, colesevelam administered 
together  with  verapamil  reduced  bioavailability  of  verapamil  and  the  metabolite  norverapamil.  The 
clinical  significance  of  this  finding  is  unclear.  It  should  be  noted  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  inter-
individual  variability for  verapamil  in the absence of Cholestagel,  with  11- to  26-fold  differences  in 
the minimum and maximum values of Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf in the subjects treated with verapamil 
alone.  This  variability  is  recognised  by  treating  physicians  who,  therefore,  alter  their  prescribed 
verapamil dosages according to the desired effect for each patient.  
The repertoire of medicinal products in the drug-drug-interaction studies with colesevelam is limited. 
Bile  acid  sequestrants  bind  bile  acids  by  ionic  linkages  and  hydrophobic  interactions.  It  is  not  clear 
why colesevelam should be more potent in binding bile acids, and less potent in interaction with drugs 
and  other  molecules  (i.e.  hormones,  vitamins)  compared  to  other  bile  acid  sequestrant  (i.e. 
cholestyramine, colestipol).  
The Applicant has committed to perform further interaction studies post-marketing with Cholestagel.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Cholesterol homeostasis is largely controlled by the liver. Cholesterol can only be excreted from the 
body  by  hepatic  secretion  into  bile.  Net  contributions  to  the  hepatic  cholesterol  pool  come  from 
cholesterol synthesis via the rate-limiting enzyme HMG-CoA reductase and cholesterol derived from 
dietary  absorption.  Net  excretion  of  cholesterol  is  accomplished  either  by  direct  secretion  of 
cholesterol into bile, or by transformation of cholesterol to bile acids followed by secretion into bile. 
Although  >95%  of  intestinal  bile  acids  are  reabsorbed  in  the  terminal  ileum,  the  bulk  of  sterol 
excretion  occurs  by  faecal  excretion  of  bile  acids.  Reabsorbed  bile  acids  return  to  the  liver  via  the 
portal vein, and are then recycled into bile. In this process, termed the enterohepatic circulation, bile 
acids  are  recirculated  multiple  times  during  a  single  day.  Previous  studies  have  established  that  bile 
acid sequestrants increase faecal bile acid excretion at least 4-fold. Enhancing excretion of cholesterol 
in the form of bile acids decreases the amount of bile acids that reaches the liver after uptake in the 
ileum  and  return  to  the  liver  via  the  portal  vein.  This  has  two  benefits:  an  increase  in  bile  acid 
synthesis from cholesterol, and a compensatory increase in LDL cholesterol uptake by the liver via the 
LDL receptor. The net effect is to decrease serum LDL cholesterol levels. Therefore, the fundamental 
mechanism  by  which  bile  acid  sequestrants  lower  serum  LDL  cholesterol  is  by  increasing  bile  acid 
excretion. 
Primary pharmacology 
Study  GTC-48-802  was  a  multiple  dose,  open-label,  parallel-design  study.  Patients  with  mild  to 
moderate hypercholesterolaemia (LDL cholesterol 3.36-5.68 mmol/L and triglycerides <3.39 mmol/L) 
were entered into the NCEP Step 1 diet for six weeks. Patients were randomised to either Cholestagel 
2.3 g/day or 3.8 g/day. 24 patients entered the treatment phase of the study. 
LDL cholesterol decreased by 0.36 mmol/L and 0.54 mmol/L (14 %) for the 2.3 g/day group and the 
3.8 g/day group, respectively. Total cholesterol declined by 0.31 mmol/L for the 2.3 g/day group and 
0.36 mmol/L for the 3.8 g/day group. Triglycerides increased by a mean of 0.03 mmol/L for the 2.3 
g/day  group  and  0.55  mmol/L  for  the  3.8  g/day  group.  Faecal  bile  acids  increased  as  compared  to 
baseline for both groups. Cholestagel increased the absolute amount of faecal bile acids but the change 
and  percent  change  in  total  faecal  fatty  acids  and  faecal  neutral  sterols  were  not  statistically 
significant.  The  physiological  post-prandial  rise  in  serum  bile  acids  was  blunted  with  Cholestagel 
dose-dependently.  Change  in  serum  oxysterol  from  baseline  to  endpoint  was  not  statistically 
significant  for  either  treatment  group  with  the  exception  of  27-OH  cholesterol,  which  decreased 
14/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significantly in the 3.8 g group. There were statistically significant median increases of mevalonic acid 
levels  from  baseline  to  endpoint  for  both  the  2.3  g/day  group  (1.170  mmol/day,  p=0.001)  and  3.8 
g/day group (1.110 mmol/day, p=0.0015).  
Secondary pharmacology 
No  specific  studies  have  been  conducted  evaluating  secondary  pharmacological  actions  of 
Cholestagel.  It  should  be  recognised  that  Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a 
well-known and recognized mechanism of primary and secondary pharmacological actions. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The  relationship  between  plasma  concentration  and  effect  is  not  applicable  for  this  compound. 
Cholestagel  is  an  insoluble  polymeric  substance  that  is  not  expected  to  be  absorbed.  The  non-
absorbable  nature  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies.  A  clinical 
pharmacology absorption  study was conducted to  confirm the results  of the  non-clinical testing  (see 
section on clinical efficacy). 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances  
No specific pharmacodynamic interaction studies were conducted. 
Clinical efficacy  
Introduction 
In randomised, placebo-controlled Phase 2/3 studies, 1350 patients with hyperlipidaemia were treated 
and  1188 patients  completed  the  protocols.  A  total  of  952 patients  were  treated  with  Cholestagel, 
807 patients  were  treated  with  Cholestagel  alone,  and  145 patients  were  treated  with  a  Cholestagel 
/HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  combination.  In  these  studies,  a  total  of  689 patients  who  received 
Cholestagel  monotherapy,  and  133 patients  who  received  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  HMG 
CoA-reductase inhibitors completed their protocols.  
Overview of Clinical Efficacy and Safety Programme 
Study 
Objective(s)  of  the 
Study;  
Primary endpoint 
Study  Design; 
Type 
of 
Control; 
Duration 
Treatment 
of  
Test 
Dosage 
Route 
Administration 
Product(s); 
regimen; 
of 
Diagnosis 
Patients;  
(n) 
of 
GTC-37-201 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 2)   
(Monotherapy) 
Assess 
efficacy 
formulation; 
safety  and 
new 
of 
Change 
and  % 
serum 
in 
change 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment period. 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled;  
6 weeks 
Capsules,  1.5  g,  2.3 g, 
3.0  g,  and  3.8  g  per 
day as split doses, oral 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
LDL-C 
mmol/l 
≥ 
4.14 
149  (120  test  drug, 
29 placebo) 
15/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GTC-37-202 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 2)  
(Monotherapy) 
GTC-48-301 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 3)  
(Monotherapy) 
Assess 
safety  and 
efficacy  of  once  per 
day dosing; 
and  % 
Change 
serum 
in 
change 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment period. 
Randomised, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled; 
4 weeks 
safety  and 
Assess 
efficacy  in  a  large 
pivotal trial; 
serum 
in 
Change 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled;  
6 months 
GTC-48-302 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 3) 
Assess 
safety  and 
efficacy  of  once  per 
in  a 
day  dosing 
pivotal trial; 
(Monotherapy) 
GTC-37-203 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 2) 
(Combination 
Therapy) 
Change 
serum 
in 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment period. 
Determine 
the 
efficacy and safety of 
co-admin-istration  of 
Cholestagel 
and 
lovastatin; 
Change 
serum 
in 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment period. 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled; 
6 weeks 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled; 
4 weeks 
Capsules,  1.5  g  given 
in A.M., 1.5 g given in 
P.M.,  and  0.75  g  BID, 
oral 
Capsules,  2.3  g,  3.0 g, 
3.8 g and 4.5 g per day 
as split doses, oral 
Capsules,  3.8  g  given 
in A.M., 3.8 g given in 
P.M.,  and  1.9  g  BID, 
oral 
Cholestagel  capsules, 
lovastatin 
g; 
2.3 
capsules, 
10  mg; 
Cholestagel  2.3  g  + 
lovastatin 10 mg dosed 
together;  Cholestagel 
2.3  g  +  lovastatin  10 
mg  dosed  apart;  all 
oral 
GTC-48-204 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 2)  
(Combination 
Therapy) 
the 
Determine 
combined 
efficacy 
and  safety  of  co-
of 
admin-istration 
and 
Cholestagel 
simvastatin; 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled; 
6 weeks 
Change 
serum 
in 
LDL-C from baseline 
of 
completion 
to 
treatment period. 
or 
split 
capsules 
Cholestagel 
2.3  g  or  3.8 g  per  day 
as 
doses; 
simvastatin  tablets  10 
20  mg; 
mg 
Cholestagel  2.3  g  + 
simvastatin  20  mg; 
Cholestagel  3.8  g  + 
simvastatin  10  mg;  all 
oral 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
≥ 
LDL-C 
4.14 
mmol/l  and  ≤  5.69 
mmol/l 
122 (90 test drug; 32 
placebo) 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
≥ 
LDL-C 
3.36 
mmol/l  and  ≤  5.69 
mmol/l 
494  (400  test  drug; 
94 placebo) 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
≥ 
LDL-C 
3.75 
mmol/l  and  ≤  6.46 
mmol/l 
98  (75  test  drug;  23 
placebo) 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
≥ 
LDL-C 
4.14 
mmol/l  and  ≤  5.69 
mmol/l 
135  (83 
test  drug 
with 
or  without 
26 
lovastatin; 
lovastatin  only;  26 
placebo) 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
LDL-C 
mmol/l 
≥ 
4.14 
258  (148  test  drug 
or  without 
with 
simvastatin; 
75 
simvastatin  only;  35 
placebo) 
16/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GTC-48-205 
Efficacy/Safet
y (Phase 2)  
(Combination 
Therapy) 
the 
Determine 
efficacy 
combined 
and  safety  of  co-
of 
admin-istration 
Cholestagel 
and 
atorvastatin; 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
parallel 
design; 
Placebo 
controlled; 
Change 
serum 
in 
LDL-C from baseline 
to 
of 
completion 
treatment period. 
Assess 
safety  and 
efficacy of long-term 
use; 
Change 
serum 
in 
LDL-C from baseline 
of 
completion 
to 
treatment period. 
4 weeks 
Open-label, 
dose-titration; 
non-
controlled; 
50 weeks 
GTC-37-901 
Efficacy/Safet
y 
study)  
(Extension 
(Monotherapy) 
Cholestagel 
capsules 
3.8  g  per  day  as  split 
dose; 
atorvastatin 
capsules  10  mg  or  80 
mg 
day; 
per 
Cholestagel  3.8  g  + 
atorvastatin  10  mg;  all 
oral 
Capsules,  1.5  to  3.8 g 
per  day  as  split  doses, 
oral 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia; 
LDL-C 
mmol/l 
≥ 
4.14 
94 (36 test drug with 
without 
or 
atorvastatin; 
39 
atorvastatin  only;  19 
placebo) 
Primary  hyperchole-
sterolemia;  
260 
GTC-44-201 
Efficacy/Safet
y 
Assess 
safety/efficacy 
tolerability 
Cholestagel tablets 
the 
and 
of 
Open-label, 
fixed 
non-
controlled; 
dose; 
Tablets;  1.9  g  b.i.d;, 
oral. 
Healthy Subjects; 
20 
(Monotherapy) 
28 days 
Dose response studies 
Five placebo-controlled phase 2 studies were undertaken in which efficacy and safety of Cholestagel 
was  evaluated.  The  Phase  2  studies  are  regarding  objectives,  treatment,  study  design  and  endpoint 
assessment  similar  to  the  two  pivotal  Phase  3  studies.  For  this  reason  all  Phase  2  and  3  studies  are 
presented and discussed combined in the following sections.  
Main studies (Phase 2 and Phase 3) 
Description of the studies 
Study  GTC-48-301  was  a  pivotal  Phase  3  dose-response  study  designed  to  determine  the  long-term 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Cholestagel.  Study  GTC-48-302  was  a  pivotal  Phase  3  dose-regime  study, 
designed  in  a  similar  manner  as  GTC-37-202,  to  confirm  the  efficacy  of  once  a  day  and  split  daily 
doses.  Three  studies  with  colesevelam  and  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  (GTC-37-203,  GTC-48-
204,  GTC-48-205)  are  also  considered  as  main  studies,  as  they  have  been  conducted  to  support  the 
add-on  indication.  Two  open-label  studies  (GTC-37-901  and  GTC-44-201)  are  considered  as 
supportive efficacy studies. 
All studies, except GTC-37-901 and GTC-44-201, were double blind and placebo-controlled. In some 
studies, patients were stratified prior to randomisation into categories of baseline LDL cholesterol. No 
comparative studies with other bile acid sequestrants were performed.  
In all studies, all patients underwent a physical exam before and after therapy and a medical history 
was  obtained.  All  patients  were  placed  on  a  controlled  diet  low  in  fat  and  dietary  cholesterol  for  at 
least  2 weeks  prior  to  dose  initiation  and  all  patients  were  required  to  adhere  to  a  low-fat,  low-
cholesterol diet while being enrolled in the studies. At least two baseline lipid values were obtained, 
and serum lipid values during treatment were obtained at intervals of at least 2 weeks duration.  
17/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria. The patient population studied constitute ambulatory men or women 18 years of age 
or  older  with  polygenic  hypercholesterolaemia  who  met  the  lipid  criteria  for  mild  to  moderate 
Fredrickson Type IIa hyperlipoproteinaemia. Premenopausal and postmenopausal women, elderly, and 
racial minorities were included. There was no upper limit of age for inclusion.  
Exclusion  criteria:  Pregnant  women  and  children  were  excluded.  Hypertriglyceridaemia;  poorly 
controlled  diabetes  mellitus  or  hypertension;  clinically  significant  liver  or  renal  disease;  vasculitis; 
HIV infection; MI or CABG/PTCA within 2 months of screening; any clinically significant unstable 
medical  condition;  history  of  dysphagia,  swallowing  disorders,  or  intestinal  motility  disorders; 
participated  in  a  study  of  another  investigational  drug  during  the  past  30  days;  use  of  other  lipid-
lowering medication during the study; use of probucol in the year prior to screening or fibrates in the 
month  prior  to  screening;  active  ethanol  or  drug  abuse;  breast-feeding;  previous  exposure  to 
cholestagel; any evidence of active malignancy except for basal cell carcinoma of the skin.  
A  history  of  malignancy  was  not  an  exclusion  criterion.  Although  certain  relevant  high-risk 
cardiovascular subjects populations are excluded, specific efficacy/safety issues are not to be expected 
taking into account the experience with the commercially available bile acid sequestrants.  
Treatments 
One  clinical  study  was  conducted  with  the  tablet  formulation  (GTC-44-201).  In  the  main  efficacy 
studies,  patients  were  instructed  to  take  Cholestagel  immediately  prior  to  or  with  meals.  The 
maximum  monotherapy  dose  of  4.5 g  per  day  was  selected  based  on  the  results  of  a  dose-ranging 
study,  GTC-37-201,  which  suggested  that  a  dose  of  4.5 g  per  day  would  result  in  LDL  cholesterol 
reductions of approximately 20% without a significant incidence of adverse events. Doses greater than 
4.5 g per day were not studied. Constipation may increase with higher doses. A previous dose-ranging 
study  with  the  prototype  polymer  (GTC-09-201)  demonstrated  that  the  incidence  of  constipation 
increased at 6.75 g per day.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy parameter was the change in fasting serum LDL cholesterol from the baseline to 
the completion of the Cholestagel treatment period.  
The secondary efficacy endpoints were in all studies percent change in LDL cholesterol, changes and 
percent changes in total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides. In addition, apolipoprotein B, 
Lp(a), apolipoprotein A-1 and LDL particle size were studied in GTC-37-201, GTC-48-204, GTC-48-
205,  GTC-48-301.  The  extent  of  lipid  alterations  was  expressed  as  mean  and  median  change  and 
percent change from baseline to endpoint.  
Statistical methods 
The sample size was chosen to expose a sufficient number of patients to colesevelam for six months to 
meet  the  ICH  Notes  for  guidance  on  population  exposure,  suggesting  a  number  of  patients  in 
aggregate with other studies to be 300-600 patients. No formal power calculation was performed.  
Both  the  intent  to  treat  (ITT)  and  evaluable  populations  were  used  for  the  analysis  of  efficacy.  The 
ITT population  was  defined as  those  patients who  were randomised, took at  least  one dose of  study 
medication, and had at least one post-baseline fasting lipid evaluation. The evaluable population was 
defined as those patients who completed the study and were at least 80% overall compliant to study 
medication. Assessment of study results refers to the ITT population.  
In the main studies treatment groups, the change and percent change from baseline to endpoint were 
analysed using a paired t-test. Baseline was defined as the average of the Day –7 and Day 0 values. If 
applicable, the difference in change and percent change between groups was analysed using analysis 
of variance (ANOVA) with factor for treatment. If treatment factor was statistically significant, all of 
the  paired  comparisons  between  the  treatment  groups  were  performed  using  contrasts  from  the  one-
way  ANOVA  model,  if  appropriate.  Both  ANOVA  and  the  paired  t-test  are  based  on  a  normal 
distribution  assumption.  If  there  was  at  least  one  treatment  group  non-normally  distributed  at  the 
significance level of 0.01, the Kruskal-Wallis test replaced the ANOVA, the Wilcoxon Signed Rank 
test replaced the paired t-test, and the contrast of ANOVA was replaced by the Wilcoxon Rank-Sum 
test.  Additional  analyses  have  been  conducted  using  a  two-way  ANOVA  model  with  factors  like 
18/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
center,  age-sex  subgroups,  race  subgroups,  baseline  LDL  cholesterol  subgroups  and  treatment  with 
treatment center interaction.  
RESULTS  
GTC-37-201: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Evaluation of Cholestagel in Patients 
with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
Of the 149 patients treated, 137 (92%) completed the study. Colesevelam demonstrated a statistically 
significant and dose-related reduction in mean LDL cholesterol and mean total cholesterol compared 
to  baseline  with  a  maximum  of  15%,  p=0.0001  (0.79  mmol/L,  p=0.0001)  in  the  colesevelam  3.8  g 
treatment  group  for  LDL  cholesterol  and  a  maximum  of  8%,  p=0.0001  (0.55  mmol/L,  p=0.0001)  in 
the  colesevelam  3.8  g  treatment  group  for  total  cholesterol.  All  but  the  colesevelam  1.5  g  treatment 
group  showed  statistically  significant  reductions  in  LDL  and  total  cholesterol  compared  to  placebo. 
Median triglycerides increased significantly with 10%, p=0.021 (0.17 mmol/L, p=0.038) from baseline 
in the colesevelam 3.8 g treatment group and were significantly different from placebo (p=0.027 for 
percent change and p=0.017 for change). 
GTC-37-202: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Once-per-Day Versus Split 
Dosing of Cholestagel in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
Of the 122 patients randomised, 121 patients (99%) completed the study. Statistically significant mean 
reduction and percent reduction from baseline to endpoint in LDL cholesterol were noted for all of the 
colesevelam  treatment  groups  compared  to  placebo,  but  the  reduction  was  only  6-7%  (0.31-0.36 
mmol/L).  This  study  was  not  powered  to  detect  differences  between  the  active  treatment  groups. 
Change  and  percent  change  in  triglycerides  from  baseline  to  endpoint  increased  significantly  with 
17%, p= 0.005 (0.28 mmol/L, p=0.01) for the colesevelam qd in AM group. 
GTC-48-301:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind  Trial  of  Cholestagel  versus  Placebo  in  Patients  with 
Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
494 patients  entered  the  treatment  period,  and  382 (77%)  completed  the  study.  Of  the  494 patients 
randomised into the study, 467 were considered part of the ITT population and 353 were part of the 
evaluable population. Sustained reductions in LDL cholesterol ≥9% were obtained with Cholestagel at 
doses of 2.3 g and ≥15% at doses of 3.8 g and 4.5 g per day. However, only a limited number of the 
patients  in  the  pivotal  6-month  study  reached  the  clinically  more  relevant  target  of  LDL  cholesterol 
<3mmol/L. 
More than 50% of patients achieve at least a 15% reduction in LDL cholesterol regardless of baseline 
LDL  cholesterol,  and  6%  of  patients  in  the  Cholestagel  4.5 g  group  and  14%  of  patients  in  the 
Cholestagel 3.8 g group were non-responders. There was no difference in mean percent reduction in 
LDL cholesterol across the strata of LDL-C levels of <4.15 mmol/L and LDL cholesterol >4.15 and 
<4.92 mmol/L. No conclusions can be drawn from the patient population with LDL cholesterol >4.92 
mmol/L  due  to  the  small  numbers  of  patients.  Small,  statistically  significant  increases  in  HDL 
cholesterol were also noted. 
GTC-48-302:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled  Trial  of  Once  Per  Day  versus  Split 
Dosing of Colesevelam Hydrochloride in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
One hundred seventy seven (177) patients were entered into the diet period; 98 were randomised into 
the drug treatment period; and 90 (92%) completed the trial. 
Reductions in mean change and mean percent change in LDL cholesterol were statistically significant 
for  each  of  the  active  treatment  groups.  The  changes  in  the  lipid  parameters  LDL  cholesterol,  total 
cholesterol,  triglycerides,  and  HDL  cholesterol  do  not  show  statistically  significant  differences 
between the three Cholestagel dosing regimens. Percent change in LDL cholesterol was similar in the 
evaluable  population  with  LDL  reductions  of  20%,  16%  and  19%  for  AM,  PM  and  BID  treatment 
groups,  respectively.  It  appears  that  triglycerides  increased  more  in  the  colesevelam  3.8  g  AM 
treatment group compared to the colesevelam 3.8 g PM treatment group.  
GTC-37-203: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Cholestagel and Lovastatin 
Alone and in Combination in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia  
135 patients were randomised into the treatment period, and 126 (93%) completed the study. 
19/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The change and percent change in LDL Cholesterol were statistically significant for each of the active 
treatment  groups.  There  was  a  7%  reduction  in  LDL  cholesterol  in  the  colesevelam  2.3  g  treatment 
group compared with a 22% reduction for the lovastatin alone group.. The two combination treatment 
groups  achieved  the  clinical  target  LDL  cholesterol  of  3  mmol/L  even  with  low  doses  of  both 
lovastatin and colesevelam. However, patients not responding adequately on lovastatin treatment alone 
should have had colesevelam as add-on therapy.  
Combination  therapy  was  more  efficacious  in  reducing  LDL  cholesterol  and  total  cholesterol  than 
were  the  individual  components  alone.  Combination  therapy  did  not  increase  triglyceride  levels  in 
contrast  to  colesevelam  given  alone.  There  was  no  clinically  significant  change  or  percent  change 
from  baseline  to  endpoint  for  Lp(a).  Changes  in  apolipoprotein  A-1  mirrored  changes  observed  for 
HDL cholesterol. Changes in apolipoprotein B mirrored changes observed for LDL cholesterol. 
GTC-48-204: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Cholestagel and Simvastatin 
Alone and in Combination in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
258 were randomised into the treatment period, and 241 (93%) patients completed the study. 
Reductions in median change and percent change in LDL cholesterol were statistically significant for 
each of the active treatment groups. Paired comparisons between treatment groups demonstrated that 
both combination regimens (Cholestagel 2.3 g/Simvastatin  20  mg and Cholestagel 3.8 g/Simvastatin 
10  mg)  resulted  in  statistically  superior  reductions  of  LDL  and  total  cholesterol  compared  to  the 
monotherapies. The percent LDL cholesterol reductions in the colesevelam 2.3 g and 3.8 g treatment 
groups (8% and 16% respectively) are similar to the results in the pivotal 6 month study (9% and 15% 
respectively).  Even  the  lowest  simvastatin  dose  was  more  effective  in  reducing  LDL  cholesterol 
compared  to  colesevelam  3.8  g.  The  two  combination  treatment  groups  both  achieved  the  clinical 
target LDL cholesterol of <3 mmol/L. 
However,  the  study  is  limited  by  not  investigating  colesevelam  as  add  on  therapy  to  patients  not 
reaching the clinical target LDL cholesterol on different simvastatin doses. 
The combination of colesevelam and simvastatin reduced LDL cholesterol and total cholesterol more 
than either colesevelam or simvastatin alone. 
The  combination  of  Cholestagel  3.8  g/simvastatin  10  mg  increased  HDL  cholesterol  more  than  the 
individual  treatments.  However,  the  Cholestagel  2.3  g/simvastatin  20  mg  did  not  increase  HDL 
cholesterol more than the individual treatments. 
GTC-48-205: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Cholestagel and Atorvastatin 
Alone and in Combination in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
94 patients were randomised into the treatment period, and 89 (95%) completed the trial. 
Reductions in median change and percent change in LDL cholesterol were statistically significant for 
each of the active treatment groups. The combination regimen of Cholestagel 3.8 g plus atorvastatin 
10 mg resulted in greater LDL cholesterol reduction that either Cholestagel 3.8 g or atorvastatin 10 mg 
alone. The co-administration of Cholestagel and atorvastatin decreased LDL cholesterol by 47.6%. In 
addition, Cholestagel and atorvastatin in combination showed the highest median increase (10.8%) in 
HDL cholesterol. 
The 12% reduction in LDL cholesterol in the colesevelam 3.8 g treatment group is similar to the result 
in  the  pivotal  6  month  study  (15%).  Even  the  lowest  dose  of  atorvastatin  was  more  effective  in 
reducing LDL cholesterol than colesevelam 3.8 g. 
All treatment groups including atorvastatin achieved the clinical target LDL cholesterol of <3 mmol/L. 
However,  the  study  is  limited  by  not  investigating  colesevelam  as  add  on  therapy  in  patients  not 
reaching the clinical target LDL cholesterol on different atorvastatin doses. 
GTC-37-901: An Extended Use Study of Cholestagel in Patients with Primary Hypercholesterolemia 
Two  hundred  seventy-two  (272)  patients  from  GTC-37-201,  GTC-37-202,  and  GTC-37-203  were 
screened for this study, 260 patients were treated, and 186 (72%) completed the study. In this titration-
based study, the Cholestagel dose was to be titrated to achieve a 15-30% LDL cholesterol reduction 
from  the  baseline  value.  Only  50%  of  patients  were  actually  titrated  per  protocol  to  the  maximum 
prescribed  dose  of  3.8  g/day  by  the  final  treatment  interval  (Week  42  to  50).  Reductions  in  percent 
change  in  LDL  cholesterol  of  –0.53  mmol/L  and  12.0%,  respectively,  were  observed  at  an  average 
daily  prescribed Cholestagel  dose of 2.8 g/day.  Cholestagel demonstrated a sustained  LDL  lowering 
effect over a 50-week treatment period.  
20/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  overall  mean  prescribed  daily  dose  of  colesevelam  for  the  study  was  2.8  g,  and  the  mean 
prescribed daily dose in the last 8 weeks was 3.3 g. Only 48.6% of the patients in the All study visits 
convention and 39.5% of the patients in the colesevelam only visits convention achieved the protocol 
goal  and  experienced  a  >15%  reduction  in  LDL  cholesterol  from  baseline  to  endpoint.  Of  the  97 
patients who were titrated to the maximum protocol dose of 3.8 g, 67% of the patients in the All study 
visits convention and only 46.4% of the patients in the colesevelamonly visits convention experienced 
a >15% reduction in LDL cholesterol from baseline to endpoint. 
The  10.9%  reduction  in  LDL  cholesterol  for  the  colesevelam  only  treatment  group  is  similar  to  the 
12% reduction in the colesevelam 3.0 g treatment group in the pivotal 6-month study. 
The increase in triglycerides in colesevelam only treated patients was significant and the increase was 
similar to the results in the other clinical studies. 
cholesterol 
concentrations 
GTC-44-201:  An  Open-Label,  Fixed-Dose,  Safety  Trial  of  Colesevelam  Hydrochloride  Tablets  in 
Normal Volunteers 
LDL  cholesterol  at  the  end  of  this  study  was  reduced  by  12%  from  baseline  levels  (P ≤0.001)  and 
triglycerides  were  increased  by  30%  from  baseline  (P <0.05).  16 of  the  20 randomised  subjects  had 
LDL 
this 
hypercholesterolaemic  population,  Cholestagel  administration  resulted  in  a  mean  decrease  in  LDL 
cholesterol  of  15%  (P <0.0001),  and  a  mean  decrease  in  total  cholesterol  of  8%,  supporting  the 
efficacy of the tablet formulation. This is consistent with comparable efficacy of the capsule and tablet 
formulations  of  Cholestagel.  LDL-cholesterol  was  reduced  with  12%  from  baseline  to  endpoint 
(p<0.001). Triglycerides increased with 30% from baseline to endpoint (P <0.05).  
The  study  is  too  small  to  properly  assess  efficacy,  but  the  lipid  values  suggest  that  the  efficacy  for 
tablets is similar to capsules. 
(Day –7).  Within 
≥3.36 mmol/l 
screening 
at 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In the pooled safety analysis the Applicant also measured lipid variables. Colesevelam treatment was 
associated  with  statistically  significant  decreases  in  LDL  and  total  cholesterol  concentrations  and 
statistically significant increases in HDL cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations from baseline to 
endpoint as compared to placebo.  
Comparison of Efficacy Results of all Studies 
Monotherapy 
Changes 
placebo-controlled monotherapy studies 
lipid  variables 
in 
in  mmol/L 
(%) 
from  baseline 
to  endpoint 
in 
DOSE 
37-201, Phase 2, 6 wks 
Placebo  
Colesevelam 1.5 g 
Colesevelam 2.3 g 
Colesevelam 3.0 g 
Colesevelam 3.8 g 
N 
29 
30 
29 
30 
29 
LDL-C 
MEAN 
TOTAL-C 
HDL-C 
TG 
MEAN 
MEDIAN 
MEDIAN 
0.07 (1) 
0.04 (0) 
-0.01 (-1) 
-0.07 (-6) 
-0.22 (-4) *
-0.16 (-2) 
-0.03 (-2) 
0.16 (10) 
-0.40 (-8) *
-0.38 (-5) *
0.00 (0) 
0.07 (3) 
-0.59 (-11) * -0.53 (-8) *
0.04 (3) 
0.01 (1) 
-0.79 (-15) * -0.55 (-8) *
0.04 (4) § 
0.17 (10) *
21/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37-202, Phase 2, 4 wks 
Placebo  
32 
0.04 (1) 
0.06 (1) 
-0.03 (-3) 
0.01 (0) 
Colesevelam 1.5 g AM 30 
-0.36 (-7) *
-0.21 (-3) *
0.01 (0) 
0.28 (17) *
Colesevelam 1.5 g PM 30 
-0.35 (-7) *
-0.26 (-4) *
0.03 (2) 
0.09 (6) 
Colesevelam  1.5  g 
b.i.d. 
30 
48-301, Phase 3, 6 mth 
Placebo  
Colesevelam 2.3 g 
Colesevelam 3.0 g 
Colesevelam 3.8 g 
Colesevelam 4.5 g 
88 
99 
91 
95 
94 
48-302, Phase 3, 6 wks  
-0.31 (-6) *
-0.32 (-4) *
0.00 (0) 
-0.03 (-2) 
-0.01 (0) 
0.04 (1) 
-0.01 (-1) 
0.05 (5) 
-0.36 (-9) *
-0.26 (-4) *
0.04 (3) * 
0.13 (9) * 
-0.50 (-12) * -0.40 (-6) *
0.05 (4) * 
0.08 (5) § 
-0.62 (-15) * -0.47 (-7) *
0.04 (3) * 
0.17 (10) *
-0.72 (-18) * -0.61 (-10) *
0.04 (3) * 
0.12 (9) * 
Placebo  
22 
0.11 (3) 
0.20 (3) 
0.00 (0) 
-0.02 (-1) 
Colesevelam 3.8 g AM 25 
-0.79 (-18) * -0.61 (-9) *
0.05 (3) 
0.25 (15) *
Colesevelam 3.8 g PM 23 
-0.63 (-15) * -0.51 (-8) *
0.12 (8) § 
0.12 (6) 
Colesevelam  3.8  g 
b.i.d. 
24 
-0.83 (-18) * -0.64 (-9) *
0.12 (8) * 
0.10 (8) 
* P <0.05 
§ Only statistically significant for percent change 
P values based on t-test (normality met) and Wilcoxon signed-rank test (normality not met). 
LDL-C: In all studies, statistically significant reductions in LDL cholesterol from baseline to endpoint 
were  observed  with  all  colesevelam  administrations,  and  these  were  dose-related.  Colesevelam 
monotherapy of 3.8 g and 4.5 g per day resulted in mean LDL cholesterol reductions of 15-18% which 
is considered to be a clinically meaningful reduction. However, the clinical target LDL cholesterol of 
<3 mmol/L was not reached with colesevelam monotherapy in the majority of patients. 
The  degree  of percent LDL cholesterol lowering is  consistent  from  one trial to another. Further, the 
data  indicate  that  the  efficacy  of  once  daily  dosing  is  similar  to  twice  daily  dosing,  although  the 
studies are too small to draw any firm conclusions. 
Total-C: A 10% decrease in total cholesterol from baseline to endpoint was achieved with the highest 
colesevelam dose. 
HDL-C:  Minor  elevations  in  HDL  cholesterol  occurred,  but  not  consistent  in  all  trials.  Even  small 
elevation in HDL cholesterol would be expected to have a potential clinical benefit. Published meta-
analyses have demonstrated that a 1% increase in HDL cholesterol correspond to a 2-3% decrease in 
the risk of CHD mortality. 
Triglycerides:  There  was  an  increase  in  triglycerides  in  all  colesevelam  monotherapy  treatment 
groups  with  a  maximum  of  17%  from  baseline.  In  the  one-year  uncontrolled  study  median  serum 
concentrations of triglycerides increased with 12% in patients treated with 3.8 g colesevelam. 
The  increase  in  triglycerides  that  occur  with  bile  acid  sequestrant  therapy  is  thought  to  be  due  to 
increased synthesis of VLDL particles. The correlation between colesevelam doses and percent change 
in  triglycerides  is  weaker  than  that  for  LDL  cholesterol.  It  is  therefore  impossible  to  predict  the 
occurrence of a large increase in triglycerides in patients treated with colesevelam. 
22/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HDL-C/Triglycerides: Usually HDL-cholesterol decreases when triglycerides increase as cholesterol 
ester formed on HDL transfers to other lipoproteins via cholesterol ester transfer protein in exchange 
for triglycerides. However, when colesevelam is used, HDL-cholesterol is slightly increased. 
Apolipoprotein B: The pivotal 6 month study showed a 12% median reduction in Apolipoprotein B 
from baseline to endpoint in the colesevelam 3.8 g and 4.5 g treatment groups which corresponds to 
the LDL cholesterol reduction. Apolipoprotein B was unaffected in the placebo group. 
Combination therapy 
Changes 
lipid 
placebo-controlled combination studies  
variables 
in 
in  mmol/L 
(%) 
from 
baseline 
to 
endpoint 
in 
DOSE 
N 
37-203 Phase 2, 4 wks 
Placebo 
Colesevelam 2.3 g 
Lovastatin 10 mg 
26 
29 
26 
Colesevelam 2.3 g/lov 
10mg together 
27 
Colesevelam 2.3 g/lov 
10mg apart 
23 
48-204 Phase 2, 6 wks 
Placebo 
Colesevelam 2.3 g 
Colesevelam 3.8 g 
Simvastatin 10 mg 
Simvastatin 20 mg 
33 
36 
37 
35 
39 
Colesevelam 
g/simvastatin 20mg 
2.3 
37 
Colesevelam  3.8  g/ 
simvastatin 10mg 
34 
48-205 Phase 2, 4 wks 
Placebo 
Colesevelam 3.8 g 
Atorvastatin 10 mg 
19 
16 
18 
Colesevelam  3.8  g/ 
atorvastatin 10 mg 
18 
LDL-C  
MEAN 
TOTAL-C  
MEAN 
HDL 
MEDIAN 
–C
TG 
MEDIAN 
0.02 (0) 
0.04 (1) 
-0.34 (-7) * 
-0.19 (-3) 
-1.00 (-22) * 
-0.97 (-14) * 
-1.54 (-34) * 
-1.41 (-21) * 
0.01 (1) 
0.06 (5) * 
0.05 (5) 
0.05 (4) 
0.01 (1) 
0.27 (16) § 
0.01 (0) 
-0.02 (-1) 
-1.37 (-32) * 
-1.37 (-21) * 
0.03 (2) 
-0.02 (-2) 
-0.18 (-4) * 
-0.16 (-2) 
-0.04 (-3) 
-0.44 (-8) * 
-0.28 (-4) * 
0.05 (3) * 
0.09 (6) 
0.21 (11) 
-0.79 (-16) * 
-0.63 (-9) * 
0.01 (2) 
0.19 (11) * 
-1.23 (-26) * 
-1.29 (-19) * 
0.04 (3) * 
-0.26 (-17) * 
-1.57 (-34) * 
-1.60 (-23) * 
0.08 (7) * 
-0.19 (-12) * 
-2.07 (-42) * 
-2.05 (-29) * 
0.05 (4) * 
-0.16 (-12) * 
-2.07 (-42) * 
-2.00 (-28) * 
0.13 (10) * 
-0.19 (-12) 
0.16 (3) 
0.29 (4) * 
-0.56 (-12) * 
-0.37 (-6) * 
0.05 (4) * 
0.03 (3) * 
0.16 (10) 
0.22 (10)  
-1.77 (-38) * 
-1.89 (-27) * 
0.10 (8) * 
-0.43 (-24) * 
-2.31 (-48) * 
-2.15 (-31) * 
0.11 (11) * 
-0.02 (-1) 
Atorvastatin 80 mg 
20 
-2.48 (-53) * 
-2.70 (-39) * 
0.06 (6) * 
-0.58 (-33) * 
*P 
§ 
P values based on t-test (normality met) and Wilcoxon signed-rank test (normality not met). 
statistically 
significant 
percent 
Only 
for 
<0.05 
change 
The strategy used with Cholestagel and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors was to span the range of low 
to  standard  doses  with  both  agents.  While  no  one  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  was  used  at  doses 
23/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  spectrum, 
the  dose  combinations  with 
across 
lovastatin,  simvastatin,  and  atorvastatin 
complemented each other. In all of these cases, combination therapy was more efficacious than were 
the individual components alone. In GTC-48-205, a standard monotherapy dose of Cholestagel (3.8 g 
per day) was combined with a starting dose of atorvastatin (10 mg per day) and achieved a 48% mean 
reduction in LDL cholesterol. Low-dose Cholestagel with standard-dose simvastatin in GTC-48-204, 
and low-dose Cholestagel with low-dose lovastatin in GTC-37-203 also resulted in additive efficacy.  
HMG-COA 
REDUCTASE 
INHIBITOR DOSE 
CHOLESTAGEL 
DOSE 
% 
LDL 
CHOLESTEROL 
DECREASE 
FROM 
CHOLESTAGEL
LDL 
% 
CHOLESTEROL 
DECREASE 
FROM 
COA R.I. 
HMG-
PREDICTED 
DECREASE 
ACTUAL 
DECREASE 
IN 
CLINICAL  STUDIES 
FOR COMBINATION 
Lovastatin 10 mg  Cholestagel 
7% 
22% 
27% 
34% 
2.3 g 
together) 
(dosed 
Lovastatin 10 mg  Cholestagel 
7% 
22% 
27% 
32% 
2.3 g 
apart) 
(dosed 
Simvastatin 
mg 
20 
Cholestagel 
2.3 g 
Simvastatin 
mg 
10 
Cholestagel 
3.8 g 
Atorvastatin 
mg 
10 
Cholestagel 
3.8 g 
8% 
34% 
39% 
42% 
16% 
26% 
38% 
42% 
12% 
38% 
45% 
48% 
To predict the additive effects of colesevelam and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors in combination, the 
following formula in which two drugs, A and B, are assumed to act independently were used: 
(Initial LDL  cholesterol  level)X(1-x)=(LDL cholesterol  level  with  drug A  monotherapy), where  x is 
the percentage of reduction in LDL cholesterol after use of drug A, divided by 100. 
(LDL cholesterol level with monotherapy)X(1-y)=(LDL cholesterol level with combination therapy), 
where  y  is  the  percentage  of  reduction  in  the  LDL  cholesterol  level  after  use  of  drug  B,  divided  by 
100. 
For all combinations of Cholestagel and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, the actual decrease in LDL 
cholesterol was the same or exceeded the predicted decrease. At least an additive increase in efficacy 
was concluded. Within the 95% confidence limits for the regression, all of the results fall above the 
line  of  additivity,  supporting  that  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  lovastatin,  simvastatin,  and 
atorvastatin results in at least additive efficacy. 
The  studies  demonstrate  the  additive  efficacy  of  combination  therapy  with  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors  and  colesevelam.  However,  a  limitation  to  the  strategy  used  is  that  there  are  no  add-on 
studies  in  patients  not  reaching  satisfactory  LDL-cholesterol  levels  on  HMG-CoA  reductase 
monotherapy.  
Historical comparison with other available drugs 
An  important  limitation  of  the  colesevelam  development  plan  was  the  lack  of  direct  comparison 
between  colesevelam  and  another  bile  acid  sequestrant.  Cholestyramine  has  documented  survival 
benefit in the Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial. On a g/g basis Cholestagel is 
more  potent  in  reducing  LDL  and  total  cholesterol  when  compared  to  other  bile  acid  sequestrants. 
When  data  from  the  largest  and  longest  controlled  primary  prevention  study  with  bile  acid 
sequestrants  (the  LRC-CPPT)  is  analysed,  Cholestagel  suggests  to  be  3- to  4- fold  more  potent  than 
24/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cholestyramine. However, a historical comparison might speculate that Colestipol and Cholestyramine 
are more efficacious in the highest licensed dose when compared with Cholestagel. 
Non-responders 
In the pivotal 6  month  study,  GTC-48-301, 37  %  of the patients  treated with  4.5  g colesevelam/day 
and  46%  of  those  treated  with  3.8  g  colesevelam/day  did  not  reach  at  least  15%  reduction  in  LDL 
cholesterol. The reason for poor response in patients could be due to an excessive hepatic cholesterol 
synthesis  or  poor  compliance.  Increased  hepatic  cholesterol  synthesis  is  thought  to  increase  VLDL 
production and triglyceride levels when patients are treated with bile acid sequestrants. 
AM/PM once daily dosing: LDL-cholesterol reductions were similar with both dosing regimens and 
compared  to  twice  daily  dosing.  In  the  GTC-37-202  study  median  triglycerides  increased  with  17% 
from baseline to endpoint in the colesevelam 1.5 g AM group compared to 6% in the colesevelam 1.5 
g PM group. In the GTC-48-302 study triglycerides increased with 15% in the colesevelam 3.8 g AM 
group compared to 6% in the colesevelam 3.8 g PM group.  
Long-term efficacy 
The  pivotal  6  month  study  demonstrated  a  sustained  reduction  in  LDL  cholesterol  over  a  6-month 
period  compared  to  placebo.  The  overall  mean  prescribed  daily  dose  of  colesevelam  for  the  1  year 
extension  study  was  2.8  g  and  the  mean  prescribed  daily  dose  in  the  last  4  weeks  was  3.3  g.  Only 
48.6%  of  the  patients  taking  Cholestagel  alone  or  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  a  HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors and 39.5% of the patients taking only Cholestagel achieved the protocol goal i.e. 
>15% reduction in LDL cholesterol from baseline to endpoint. Of the 97 patients who were titrated to 
the  maximum  protocol  dose  of  3.8  g,  67%  of  the  patients  taking  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  a 
HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  and  only  46.4%  of  the  patients  in  the  Cholestagel  only  group 
experienced a >15% reduction in LDL cholesterol from baseline to endpoint.  
Comparison of Results in Subpopulations 
Correlations  between  demographic  categories  and  LDL  cholesterol  reduction  were  made  for  major 
subgroups  of  hyperlipidaemic  patients  in  the  US  population:  men <65,  men =65,  women <65, 
women =65,  Caucasians,  Non-Caucasians,  premenopausal  and  postmenopausal  women  on  hormone 
replacement, and postmenopausal women without hormone replacement. Data were also collected on 
patients  in  different  baseline  LDL  cholesterol  categories:  <4.14 mmol/l,  4.14-4.91 mmol/l,  and 
>4.91 mmol/l. These data show that Cholestagel produces a dose-related decrease in LDL cholesterol 
for all of the subgroups tested.  
As  colesevelam  is  not  absorbed,  no  dose  adjustments  should  be  necessary  in  patient  with  impaired 
renal  function.  Some  of  the  colesevelam  effect  is  based  on  liver  synthesis.  The  efficacy  in  patients 
with liver failure has not been investigated. 
A  separate  study  in  diabetic  patients  would  have  been  of  value  as  many  published  studies  have 
demonstrated  a  significant  association  between  increased  triglycerides  and  CHD,  particularly  in 
patients with diabetes.  
Studies in children have not been conducted. However, about 1 in 500 in the European population has 
familiar hypercholesterolaemia. The most important clinical feature of familial hypercholesterolaemia 
is  the  development  of  premature  and  extensive  atherosclerosis.  Considering  the  need  for  therapeutic 
options in children with familiar hypercholesterolaemia, studies in paediatric patients are encouraged 
on the condition that effects on serum triglyceride concentration are studied closely. 
The  Applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  Post-Approval  study  in  the  hypercholesterolaemic 
paediatric population within specified timeframes.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
One  study  including  24  patients  with  hypercholesterolaemia  was  conducted  to  assess  the  effects  of 
Cholestagel  on  sterol  metabolism  in  humans,  and  hence  to  assess  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
Cholestagel  as  a  hypocholesterolaemic  agent.  Cholestagel  decreased  LDL  cholesterol  and  total 
cholesterol in a dose-related fashion. Fecal  bile  acids were increased but not statistically significant. 
With Cholestagel, the physiological post-prandial rise in serum bile acid salts was blunted in a dose-
dependent  manner.  The  increase  in  urine  mevalonic  acid  showed  that  Cholestagel  induced  a 
25/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compensatory increase in total body cholesterol synthesis. Dose response was limited as a higher dose 
than 4.5 g was not studied. Constipation may increase with higher doses. There was a marked increase 
in  fatty  acid  excretion  but  the  difference  was  not  statistically  significant,  probably  due  to  the  small 
numbers  of  patients  and  the  large  standard  deviations.  No  steatorrhea  has  been  noted.  However, 
increased fatty acid excretion has the potential of increasing excretion of fat soluble vitamins and can 
be  a  clinical  problem  especially  when  treating  patients  with  a  susceptibility  to  fat  soluble  vitamin 
deficiencies. 
There were no significant differences between postprandial serum triglycerides at baseline and after 2 
or 4 weeks of colesevelam treatment. However, postprandial lipid values were measured up to 4 hours 
only, while the triglycerides were still increasing 
The results from the study indicate a similar mechanism of action of colesevelam as for other bile acid 
sequestrants  even  though  increased  synthesis  of  bile  acids  have  not  been  shown  and  a  direct 
comparison have not been made. 
The  study  with  radiolabelled  colesevelam  demonstrated  that  the  colesevelam  is  negligibly  absorbed 
and  eliminated  via  the  gastrointestinal  tract  system.  However,  in  this  study  the  proposed  maximum 
dose was not investigated.  
Colesevelam  reduced  the  bioavailability  of  verapamil  and  the  metabolite  norverapamil,  but  did  not 
significantly  reduce  the  bioavailability  of  quinidine,  valproic  acid,  digoxin,  warfarin,  metoprolol,  or 
lovastatin. Cholestagel decreased the Cmax and AUC of sustained-release verapamil by approximately 
31%  and  11%,  respectively.  Since  there  is  a  high  degree  of  variability  in  the  bioavailability  of 
verapamil,  cannot  be  excluded  with  a  concomitant  medicinal  product,  that  medication  should  be 
administered at least one hour before or four hours after Cholestagel to minimize the risk of reduced 
absorption  of  the  concomitant  medication.  Drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  with  an 
insufficient number and inadequate selection of drugs. The selection of drugs tested in in vivo studies 
should  have  been  based  on  known  interactions  with  other  bile  acid  sequestrants.  The  Applicant  has 
committed to perform further interaction studies post-marketing with Cholestagel.  
The  applicant  has  conducted  five  Phase  2  studies  in  which  efficacy  and  safety  of  Cholestagel  was 
evaluated.  The  Objectives,  treatment,  design  and  endpoint  assessment  of  the  Phase  2  studies  are 
similar to the two Phase 3 main studies: one dose-ranging study designed to determine the long-term 
efficacy and safety of Cholestagel and another designed to confirm the efficacy of once daily versus 
split  daily  doses.  The  efficacy  data  are  limited  as  only  1264  unique  subjects/patients  have  been 
exposed to colesevelam.  
The primary efficacy parameter was the change in fasting serum LDL cholesterol from the baseline to 
the completion of the Cholestagel treatment period. The significance assigned to this endpoint reflects 
the  strong  correlation  established  between  elevated  LDL  cholesterol  and  coronary  heart  disease 
(CHD),  and  the  evidence  from  clinical  trials  showing  that  reductions  in  LDL  cholesterol  have  a 
beneficial effect on morbidity and mortality from CHD. The chosen variable is therefore considered a 
reasonable primary surrogate endpoint, but is acceptable only if no significant deleterious  effects on 
other lipid variables such as HDL, cholesterol and triglycerides occur. Secondary efficacy parameters 
included total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoproteins.  
Although the primary efficacy variable was the change in LDL cholesterol from baseline to endpoint, 
the  Applicant  has  focused  on  percent  change  in  LDL  cholesterol.  A  given  percent  change  in  LDL 
cholesterol corresponds to a smaller absolute reduction in patients with a moderate LDL cholesterol at 
baseline  compared  to  patients  with  a  high  baseline  LDL  cholesterol.  In  addition,  the  association 
between LDL cholesterol and risk of CHD is not linear, and a certain change in LDL cholesterol leads 
to  a  larger  reduction  in  risk  of  CHD  for  patients  with  a  high  baseline  value  than  for  patients  with  a 
lower LDL cholesterol at baseline.  
Colesevelam  monotherapy  at  doses  of  3.8  g  and  4.5  g  per  day  lowers  LDL-cholesterol  by  15-18%, 
which is considered a clinically relevant reduction. Similar LDL cholesterol reductions were achieved 
whether  Cholestagel  was  dosed  once  per  day  or  split  between  breakfast  and  dinner.  However,  the 
overall effect of colesevelam monotherapy is too small to reach the clinical target of <3 mmol/L.  
26/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, total-C decreased 7 to 10%, HDL-C increased 3% and triglycerides increased 9 to 10%. 
Apo B  decreased  by  12%.  In  comparison,  in  patients  given  placebo,  LDL-C,  total-C,  HDL-C  and 
apo-B were unchanged, while triglycerides increased 5%.  
Doses greater than 4.5 g per day were not studied. Constipation may increase with higher doses. 
The effects of Cholestagel on mortality or morbidity are not known. 
Initiation of add-on treatment with Cholestagel subsequent to statin therapy has not been specifically 
studied. However, combination therapy with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor was shown to be more 
efficacious than were the individual components alone and triglycerides were not increased in patients 
receiving  combination  therapy  due  to  the  triglyceride  lowering  effects  of  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors.  The  incremental  benefit  from  adding  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  to  Cholestagel  is 
similar  to  the  benefit  from  Cholestagel  monotherapy.  Multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled studies in 487 patients demonstrated an additive reduction of 8 to 16% in LDL-C 
when 2.3 to 3.8 g Cholestagel and a statin (atorvastatin, lovastatin or simvastatin) were administered at 
the same time.  
Median  percent  reductions  with  each  combination  were  49%  with  Cholestagel  3.8  g/atorvastatin  10 
mg;  42%  with  both  Cholestagel  3.8  g/simvastatin  10  mg  and  Cholestagel  2.3  g/simvastatin  20  mg; 
33%  with  Cholestagel  2.3  g/lovastatin  10  mg  dosed  together;  and  31%  with  Cholestagel  2.3 
g/lovastatin  10  mg  dosed  apart.  However,  as  expected  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  were  more 
potent in reducing LDL cholesterol and total cholesterol and had a larger increase in HDL cholesterol 
compared  to  colesevelam.  In  addition,  with  respect  to  triglycerides  these  were  reduced.  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitors  have  outcome  studies  with  morbidity/mortality  endpoints,  whereas  colesevelam 
studies are only based on the surrogate endpoint LDL cholesterol.  
Cholestagel  has  not  been  compared  directly  to  other  bile  acid  sequestrants  in  clinical  trials.  The 
primary disadvantages of currently prescribed bile acid sequestrants are unpalatability, the large daily 
dose needed and the high incidence of gastrointestinal side effects. The effects of Cholestagel on lipids 
are similar to currently available bile acid sequestrants. When compared with historical data colestipol 
and  colestyramine  in  their  highest  dose  are,  more  efficacious  when  compared  with  Cholestagel. 
Cholestagel monotherapy doses of 3.8 g and 4.5 g per day resulted in  median reductions of LDL of 
more than 15%. At the highest approved dosage, colestyramine (24 g per day) and colestipol (30 g per 
day) lower LDL cholesterol on average 15 to 30%. The chosen maximum dose of Colestagel is driven 
by an improved tolerability profile relative to other bile acid sequestrants. This strategy can be debated 
from an efficacy point of view because the relative low incidence of side effects can be attributed to a 
too low dose leading to a debatable efficacy profile.  
Of concern is the increase in triglycerides seen during colesevelam treatment. 2% of Cholestagel only 
and no placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels of ≥ 6 mmol/L; 7% 
of Cholestagel and 5% of placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels 
≥ 4  mmol/L.  However,  these  pharmacodynamic  effects  are  well  known  with  the  other  bile  acid 
binding resins. Further, triglycerides did not increase when colesevelam was combined with a HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitor.  
In  very  rare  cases,  elevation  in  triglycerides  and/or  cholesterol  was  spontaneously  reported  in  USA 
postmarketing  reports  after  launching  in  September  2000.  Some  of  these  patients  had  extreme 
elevations in triglycerides, which were seen both when colesevelam was given alone, and when given 
in combination with simvastatin. There is growing evidence of the importance of triglycerides as a risk 
factor  for  CHD,  and  some  of  the  benefit  of  reducing  LDL-cholesterol  might  to  some  extent  be 
counteracted  by  the  triglyceride  increasing  effect  of  colesevelam.  However,  if  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors  are  contraindicated/not  tolerated,  a  high  LDL-cholesterol  level  is  probably  a  bigger  risk 
factor  than  a  moderate  increase  in  triglycerides.  Increased  hepatic  cholesterol  synthesis  would 
probably increase the VLDL production and might explain the extreme serum triglyceride levels seen 
in  some  patients.  Caution  should  be  exercised  when  treating  patients  with  triglyceride  levels  greater 
than 3.4 mmol/L due to the triglyceride increasing effect with Cholestagel. Safety and efficacy are not 
established  for  patients  with  triglyceride  levels  greater  than  3.4 mmol/L,  since  such  patients  were 
excluded from the clinical studies. 
It has to be pointed out that the effects of Cholestagel on mortality and morbidity are not known. For 
this  reason  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  should  remain  the  first  line  treatment  in  patients  with 
27/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypercholesterolaemia. Despite the efficacy of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, many patients with 
severe  hypercholesterolaemia  may  not  respond  sufficiently  and  will  require  combination  therapy, 
using an-add on approach, to achieve target LDL cholesterol levels. 
Colesevelam  could  be  an  alternative  to  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  in  patients  where  these  are 
contraindicated  or  not  tolerated.  The  major  drawback  of  currently  available  bile  acid  resins  or 
sequestrants  is  their  lack  of  tolerability.  Side  effects  of  bile  acid  binding  resins  (colestipol, 
colestyramine)  are  primarily  related  to  gastrointestinal  intolerance,  which  include  symptoms  of 
nausea, bloating, abdominal pain, and constipation. The resins  must be taken in large quantities as a 
gritty  powder  mixed  in  water  or  as  numerous  large  tablets.  The  improved  potency  of  colesevelam 
might  allow  for  once  per  day  dosing  and  thereby  increase  compliance  compared  to  other  bile  acid 
sequestrants.  
Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a  well-known  and  recognised  mechanism  of 
primary  and  secondary  pharmacological  actions.  No  unexpected  pharmacological  properties  are 
present. It is recommended by various expert panels to use this class of agents with statins. A number 
of already registered bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine and colestipol) are indicated for the add-on 
indication.  It  has  been  demonstrated  also  for  Cholestagel  that  the  combination  with  statins  is  more 
effective  than  the  monocomponents.  Post-marketing  data  from  the  US  do  not  indicate  any  specific 
problems with regard to efficacy while a significant number of patients were already on the maximum 
approved dose.  
Cholestagel  is  indicated  for  co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in 
patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who are not adequately controlled with a statin alone,  
and as monotherapy as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total and LDL-cholesterol 
in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin is considered inappropriate 
or is not well tolerated. 
It  is  not  considered  necessary  to  perform  an  add-on  study  in  patients  who  have  responded 
insufficiently  to  the  optimal  dosage  before  registration.  However,  in  order  to  gather  further  efficacy 
and safety the Applicant  has committed to perform a Post Approval Study of Cholestagel as add-on 
therapy to an optimal dose of statin. 
Prior to initiating therapy with Cholestagel as combination therapy or monotherapy, patients should be 
placed on a cholesterol-lowering diet and a lipid profile performed to assess total-cholesterol (total-C), 
HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) and triglyceride levels. During therapy, this diet should be continued, and 
serum  total-C,  LDL-C  and  triglyceride  levels  should  be  determined  periodically  during  treatment  to 
confirm favourable initial and adequate long-term responses. Current European guidelines should be 
consulted to establish treatment approaches and goals for individual patients.  
Cholestagel tablets should be taken orally with a meal and liquid. When a drug interaction cannot be 
excluded with a concomitant  medicinal product, that medication should be administered at least one 
hour  before  or  four  hours  after  Cholestagel  to  minimize  the  risk  of  reduced  absorption  of  the 
concomitant medication. 
Combination therapy: Therapy with Cholestagel may be initiated when standard doses of the HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitor are inadequate  or not well  tolerated;  the  SPC for that  particular  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitor  should  be  consulted.  The  recommended  dose  of  Cholestagel  is  4  to  6  tablets  per 
day. The maximum recommended dose is 3 tablets taken twice per day with meals or 6 tablets taken 
once  per  day  with  a  meal.  Co-administration  with  atorvastatin,  lovastatin  or  simvastatin  in  clinical 
trials  shows  that  Cholestagel  can  be  dosed  at  the  same  time  as  one  of  these  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors or the two medicinal products can be dosed apart.  
Monotherapy:  The  recommended  starting  dose  of  Cholestagel  is  3 tablets  taken  twice  per  day  with 
meals or 6 tablets once per day with a meal. The maximum recommended dose is 7 tablets per day. 
Clinical safety 
Cholestagel is a member of a class of bile acid sequestrant drugs that are used principally for treatment 
of  elevated  LDL  cholesterol.  An  established  drawback  of  currently  available  bile  acid  sequestrants, 
Questran (cholestyramine) and Colestid (colestipol), is lack of tolerability. Because these drugs are not 
absorbed,  the  risk  of  systemic  toxicity  is  low.  However,  these  marketed  bile  acid  sequestrants  can 
28/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interfere with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins and other drugs including phenylbutazone, thyroid 
hormone,  digitalis,  warfarin,  thiazide  diuretics,  and  some  antibiotics.  Given  the  history  of  bile  acid 
sequestrants,  the  areas  of  safety  concern  during  the  development  of  Cholestagel  were  related  to 
gastrointestinal  tolerance,  interference  with  the  absorption  of  fat-soluble  vitamins,  and  drug 
interactions.  Safety  data  are  tabulated  for  Cholestagel,  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitors  versus  placebo  and  for  increasing  doses  of  Cholestagel  in  the  monotherapy 
studies. 
Patient exposure 
A total of 1870 patients were treated in the entire clinical development programme:  
-  
in 
trials 
(GTC-37-201,  GTC-37-202, 
the  placebo-controlled  efficacy 
1350  patients 
GTC-37-203, GTC-48-204, GTC-48-205, GTC-48-301, and GTC-48-302),  
260 patients in a non-randomised, non-placebo-controlled extension study (GTC-37-901) 187 of 
these patients had previously been exposed to Cholestagel in one of the efficacy trials,  
24 patients in a randomised, non-placebo-controlled pharmacodynamic study (GTC-48-802),  
20 healthy subjects in a non-randomised, non-placebo-controlled trial of Cholestagel tablets that 
included an efficacy endpoint, and so are numbered as a Phase 2 study (GTC-44-201),  
216  healthy  subjects  that  received  either  a  single  dose  (172  subjects)  or  multiple  doses  (44 
subjects) of Cholestagel. 
-  
-  
-  
-  
from 
two  uncontrolled  clinical  studies  excluded 
The 1350 patients included in the integrated safety analysis represent 98% of the total of 1374 patients 
treated,  and  all  patients  included  in  Phase 2  and 3  clinical  studies.  The  952 patients  exposed  to 
Cholestagel  alone  or  in  combination  with  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  in  the  integrated  safety 
analysis represent 98% of the 976 patients exposed to multiple doses of Cholestagel in clinical studies. 
The 
the  pooled  safety  analysis  are 
Studies GTC-48-802 (24 patients) and GTC-37-901 (260 patients).  
The demographic characteristics of the patients included in the safety analysis represented reasonably 
those likely to be treated with antihypercholesterolaemic medications, although the prevalence of male 
subjects  might  be  somewhat  low.  Over  25%  of  the  patients  treated  were  greater  than  or  equal  to 
65 years of age,  and 4.3% were greater than or equal to  75 years of age. Cholestagel only treatment 
categories  had  significantly  longer  average  exposure  than  the  combination  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitor.  Age,  sex,  hormonal  status,  race,  and  the  percentage  of  overweight  patients  and 
smokers were reasonably balanced across studies. There were substantial percentages of patients in the 
three baseline LDL cholesterol categories that could be considered to represent mild (<4.14 mmol/l), 
moderate (4.14 to 4.91 mmol/l), and severe (>4.91 mmol/l) degrees of elevated LDL cholesterol. The 
distributions among the three categories were dissimilar across studies as a result of protocol design.  
Adverse events  
In general, the percentages of patients reporting common adverse events were similar in the placebo 
and Cholestagel only treatment categories. Only constipation and dyspepsia were reported by a higher 
percentage among Cholestagel only patients. These events were generally mild and did not often result 
in drug discontinuation. There was no significant increase in laxative or antacid use.  
Constipation  was reported  by  a slightly higher  percentage  of patients in the colesevelam/HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitor treatment group (10.3%) compared to the HMG-CoA only treatment group (7.9%).  
Compared with placebo, the percentage of patients reporting these adverse events were increased by 
approximately  5%.  The  gastrointestinal  side  effects  do  not  seem  to  be  markedly  dose-related,  and 
increasing the dose to 4.5 g seems to be acceptable with regard to such adverse events.  
Myalgia seems to be more frequent in the colesevelam/HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor group and the 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor only group (6.2% and 3.6% respectively) compared to the colesevelam 
only group and placebo group (2.1% and 0.4% respectively). It was suggested that myalgia was more 
frequently reported for the Cholestagel/HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor group as compared with HGM-
CoA  reductase  inhibitor  alone;  however,  a  statistical  comparison  showed  the  difference  to  be  non-
significant (p=0.29). 
29/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There  were  3  deaths  in  three  different  centres  and  in  three  different  studies:  aspiration  pneumonia 
secondary  to  a  cerebrovascular  accident,  myocardial  infarction  and  homicide.  All  deaths  were 
considered unrelated to study medication. 
A total of 1.9% of placebo patients and 1.4% of Cholestagel only patients experienced serious adverse 
events.  A  total  of  0.7%  of  both  the  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  and  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitor  only  patients  experienced  serious  adverse  events.  In  total,  there  were  18  serious 
adverse events during study treatment in the seven placebo-controlled studies. These serious adverse 
events were similar to what could be expected in a general population over the treatment period. 
All but one of these serious adverse events were considered not related or remote to study medication. 
The  one  exception  was  a  patient  on  placebo  who  experienced  abdominal  pain  that  was  considered 
possibly related to treatment. However, 5 patients had a cardiovascular event when taking colesevelam 
compared  to  none  in  the  placebo  group.  All  of  these  patients  took  medium  or  high  doses  of 
colesevelam (2.3-4.5 g). Due to the small number of events it is not possible to draw any conclusion 
regarding the differences noted.  
Laboratory findings 
Cholestagel  increased  mean  AST,  ALT,  and  alkaline  phosphatase  levels  slightly  when  used  alone 
using  dichotomised  endpoints.  However,  the  changes  were  small  and  not  considered  clinically 
relevant.  Demographic  subgroups  had  similar  isolated  laboratory  changes.  These  changes  were 
anticipated because bile acid sequestrants are known to cause slight increases in liver function tests. 
There is no plausible physiological explanation of why Cholestagel would cause liver toxicity because 
it is not absorbed and cannot accumulate in tissues. Cholestagel used in combination with HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors did not alter the magnitudes of the increases in liver function tests observed with 
the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.  
There are isolated case reports of hyperchloraemic metabolic acidosis due to increased chloride intake 
with  cholestyramine  in  patients  taking  cholestyramine  for  the  indication  of  pruritis  associated  with 
liver  disease,  and  has  most  often  been  associated  with  concomitant  use  of  spironolactone.  Typical 
dietary  chloride  intake  is  4000  to  6000  g/day.  For  Cholestagel  an  additional  risk  is  not  anticipated 
because of the lower doses of Cholestagel administered. 
Vitamin K status was indirectly measured using PT and PTT. The baseline and endpoint means were 
within the normal ranges and the magnitudes of the changes were relatively small. The incidence of 
notable  high  PT  and  PTT  is  numerically  only  slightly  higher  in  the  colesevelam  treated  patients 
compared  to  placebo. However, from  non-clinical studies  anaemia  and haemorrhage associated  with 
vitamin  K  depletion  have  been  observed  in  rats  and  dogs  at  doses  that  are  40-fold  and  8-fold, 
respectively, greater than the maximum recommended human dose.  
Because of this finding, the principal safety concern in humans is the interference with the absorption 
of fat-soluble vitamins.  
Safety in special populations 
The safety of colesevelam has not been established in risk patients, pregnant women, lactating women 
or  children.  Since  the  safety  of  colesevelam  in  patients  with  liver  failure  is  not  established,  an 
appropriate statement has been included in the warning section in the SPC. However, specific safety 
issues are not to be expected taking into account the experience with the commercially available bile 
acid  sequestrants.  There  are  only  very  limited  data  on  patients  with  type  II  diabetes  mellitus  and 
documented  atherosclerosis  and  more  extensive  data  would  have  been  of  value.  The  Applicant  has 
committed to perform a Post-Approval study in the hypercholesterolaemic paediatric population.  
Interactions  
The  only  overt  toxicity  in  nonclinical  testing  of  Cholestagel  was  interference  with  the  absorption  of 
fat-soluble vitamins. Absorption of fat-soluble vitamins is dependent upon bile acids. As a result, fat-
soluble vitamin serum concentrations were considered key safety parameters, and fat-soluble Vitamins 
were measured in the Cholestagel clinical studies.  
The  Cholestagel  and  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  groups  did  not  have  statistically 
significant  changes  in  PT,  Vitamin  A  or  Vitamin  E  levels.  There  were  small  statistically  but  not 
30/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinically  relevant  decreases  in  PTT  for  the  Cholestagel  and  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitor  groups.  However,  it  should  be  recognised  that  the  reduction  will  be  directly  related  to  the 
dose administered.  
Drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  with  a  limited  number  and  selection  of  medicinal 
products.  Only  single-dose  studies  were  performed.  Postmarketing  reports  have  indicated  possible 
drug-drug interactions with colesevelam. Drugs reported more than once include levothyroxin sodium, 
phenytoin,  gabapentin,  and  warfarin,  the  interaction  with  warfarin  possibly  caused  by  reduced 
absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (e.g. vitamin K).  
The Applicant has committed to perform further interaction studies with Cholestagel. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Of  the  1350 patients  treated,  82 (6.1%)  discontinued  due  to  an  adverse  event.  The  percentage  of 
patients discontinuing due to an adverse event ranged from 1.0% in GTC-37-202, a 4-week treatment 
study,  to  9.9%  in  GTC-48-301,  the  6-month  treatment  study.  The  absolute  majority  of  Cholestagel 
treated  patients  terminated  due  to  digestive  system  related  adverse  events.  Constipation  is  the  major 
complaint and at times is severe. Other, less frequent gastrointestinal complaints comprises abdominal 
discomfort  (abdominal  pain  and  cramping),  intestinal  gas  (bloating  and  flatulence),  indigestion  and 
heartburn, diarrhoea and loose stools, and nausea and vomiting. 
Post marketing experience 
On 26 May 2000, colesevelam hydrochloride was approved, in capsule and tablet form for marketing 
in  the  U.S.  The  tablets  are  marketed  under  the  tradename  WelChol  and  the  capsules  are  not  being 
marketed. There have been ten periodic adverse event reports since launch. The reported incidence of 
labelled adverse events is <0.05%.  
The  majority  of  adverse  events  have  been  gastrointestinal  in  nature  as  would  be  expected  from  the 
results  of  the  pivotal  6-month  study  (GTC-48-301).  Cases  received  describing  elevations  in 
triglycerides and/or cholesterol were very rare. The baseline triglyceride levels were higher for these 
patients than median baseline levels in the submitted studies, which might suggest that patients with 
high  baseline  triglyceride  levels  are  more  prone  to  colesevelam  induced  hypertriglyceridaemia.  The 
changes in HDL cholesterol values of these patients are of interest, but are not presented. Elevations in 
triglycerides  are  a  matter  of  concern  as  an  increase  in  triglycerides  is  correlated  with  an  increase  in 
CHD and patients with triglyceride levels above 10 mmol/L are at high risk of developing pancreatitis. 
Published  data  suggest  that  the  combination  of  high  TG  and  low  HDL-C  levels  is  a  powerful  risk 
factor for cardiac events or CHD deaths, even when LDL cholesterol levels are normal. Furthermore, 
elevated triglycerides are a CHD risk factor, regardless of the HDL cholesterol level. 
One  patient  with  no  history  of  excessive  alcohol  consumption  was  hospitalised  with  a  diagnosis  of 
acute pancreatitis 2 days after he started Welchol therapy. The physician associated the use of Welchol 
to the event. 
Some  of  the  case  reports  indicate  possible  drug-drug  interactions  with  colesevelam.  Drugs  reported 
more than once include levothyroxin sodium, phenytoin, gabapentin, and warfarin, the interaction with 
warfarin possibly caused by reduced absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (e.g. vitamin K). 
Long term safety 
The absence of a control group in the extended one-year study makes it difficult to draw conclusions. 
However,  no  clinically  significant  mean  changes  in  chemistry,  haematology,  vitamin  or  coagulation 
variables were reported in the GTC-37-901 study. The safety results of this study support the results of 
the placebo-controlled studies.  
Discussion on clinical safety 
Cholestagel monotherapy was associated with a 3% increase over placebo in the percentage of patients 
terminating  early  due  to  an  adverse  event.  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors was associated with a 3% increase over HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor alone in the percentage 
of  patients  terminating  early  due  to  an  adverse  event.  The  side  effects  that  were  notably  increased  in 
frequency relative to placebo treated patients are constipation and dyspepsia. Compared with placebo, the 
percentage  of patients reporting these  adverse events are increased  approximately  by 5%. Constipation 
31/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and dyspepsia are generally mild or moderate in intensity and rarely resulted in study termination. These 
increases  were  related  to  intolerance  for  the  medicinal  product  rather  than  toxicity.  One  in  30 patients 
discontinued  due  to  side  effects  that  could  be  attributed  to  Cholestagel  treatment  either  alone  or  in 
combination with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The safety and efficacy of Cholestagel in patients with 
dysphagia, swallowing disorders, severe gastrointestinal motility disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, 
liver  failure  or  major  gastrointestinal  tract  surgery  have  not  been  established.  Consequently,  caution 
should be exercised when Cholestagel is used in patients with these disorders. The risk of constipation 
should especially be considered in patients with coronary heart disease and angina pectoris. 
Cholestagel  was  associated  with  some  statistically  significant  changes  in  some  serum  chemistry 
parameters.  However,  in  general  the  magnitudes  of  the  changes  were  small  and  the  mean  values 
remained within the normal range at baseline and endpoint of the analysis. Cholestagel increased mean 
AST, ALT,  and  alkaline  phosphatase levels  slightly when  used alone  using dichotomised endpoints. 
These changes were anticipated because bile acid sequestrants are known to cause slight increases in 
liver function tests. It should be noticed that there is no plausible physiological explanation of whether 
Cholestagel  would  cause  liver  toxicity  because  it  is  not  absorbed  and  cannot  accumulate  in  tissues. 
Cholestagel in combination with HMG-CoA  reductase inhibitors  did  not alter  the  magnitudes of the 
increases in liver function tests as observed with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. The Cholestagel 
and Cholestagel/HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor groups did not show statistically significant changes in 
PT, Vitamin A or Vitamin E levels. There were small statistically significant but clinically irrelevant 
decreases  in  PTT  for  the  Cholestagel  group.  However,  caution  should  be  exercised  when  treating 
patients  with  a  susceptibility  to  vitamin  K  or  fat-soluble  vitamin  deficiencies,  such  as  patients  with 
malabsorption. In these patients, monitoring vitamin A, D and E levels and assessing vitamin K status 
through  the  measurement  of  coagulation  parameters  is  recommended  and  the  vitamins  should  be 
supplemented  if  necessary.  Further,  anticoagulant  therapy  should  be  monitored  closely  in  patients 
receiving  warfarin  or  similar  agents,  since  bile  acid  sequestrants  have  been  shown  both  to  reduce 
absorption of vitamin K and to interfere with warfarin’s anticoagulant effect. 
There  was  an  increase  in  myalgia  for  the  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  group  as 
compared  with  HGM-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  alone;  however,  a  statistical  comparison  showed  the 
difference  to  be  non-significant  (p=0.29).  Noteworthy  is  that  Cholestagel  only  treatment  categories 
had  significantly  longer  average  exposure  than  the  combination  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitor.  There  are  isolated  case  reports  of  hyperchloraemic  metabolic  acidosis  in  patients  with 
pruritis  associated  with  liver  disease  due  to  increased  chloride  intake  with  cholestyramine 
predominantly in concomitant use of spironolactone. Typical dietary chloride intake is 4000 to 6000 
g/day. Additional risk with Cholestagel is not anticipated because of  the  lower doses of Cholestagel 
administered. 
Of concern is the increase in triglycerides seen during colesevelam treatment. 2% of Cholestagel only 
and no placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels of ≥ 6 mmol/L; 7% 
of Cholestagel and 5% of placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels 
≥ 4  mmol/L.  However,  these  pharmacodynamic  effects  are  well  known  with  the  other  bile  acid 
binding resins. Caution should be exercised when treating patients with triglyceride levels greater than 
3.4 mmol/L  due  to  the  triglyceride  increasing  effect  with  Cholestagel.  Safety  and  efficacy  are  not 
established  for  patients  with  triglyceride  levels  greater  than  3.4 mmol/L,  since  such  patients  were 
excluded from the clinical studies. 
In interaction studies in healthy volunteers, Cholestagel had no effect on the bioavailability of digoxin, 
metoprolol, quinidine, valproic acid, and warfarin. Cholestagel decreased the Cmax and AUC of sustained-
release  verapamil  by  approximately  31%  and  11%,  respectively.  Since  there  is  a  high  degree  of 
variability in the bioavailability of verapamil, the clinical significance of this finding is unclear. 
Drug-drug  interaction  studies  were  performed  with  a  limited  number  and  selection  of  medicinal 
products. The Applicant has committed to perform further interaction studies with Cholestagel. When 
a drug interaction cannot be excluded with a concomitant medicinal product, that medication should 
be  administered  at  least  one  hour  before  or  four  hours  after  Cholestagel  to  minimize  the  risk  of 
reduced absorption of the concomitant medication. 
32/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a  well-known  and  recognised  mechanism  of 
primary  and  secondary  pharmacological  actions.  No  unexpected  pharmacological  properties  are 
present. It is recommended by various expert panels to use this class of agents with statins. A number 
of already registered bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine and colestipol) are indicated for the add-on 
indication.  Post-marketing  data  from  the  US  do  not  indicate  any  specific  problems  with  regard  to 
safety while a significant number of patients were already on the maximum approved dose.  
Cholestagel  is  indicated  for  co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in 
patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who are not adequately controlled with a statin alone,  
and as monotherapy as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total and LDL-cholesterol 
in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin is considered inappropriate 
or is not well tolerated. 
It  is  not  considered  necessary  to  perform  an  add-on  study  in  patients  who  have  responded 
insufficiently  to  the  optimal  dosage  before  registration.  However,  in  order  to  gather  further  efficacy 
and safety the Applicant  has committed to perform a Post Approval Study of Cholestagel as add-on 
therapy to an optimal dose of statin. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the limited  programme  of primary pharmacodynamic and  pharmacokinetic  studies  provided 
adequate  evidence  for  efficacy  of  colesevelam.  Because  of  the  lack  of  absorption  of  colesevelam 
hydrochloride no specific safety pharmacology studies were carried out and the pharmacology studies 
focused  on  the  proof  of  concept.  In  addition,  the  pharmacokinetics  studies  described  the  absorption, 
distribution  and  excretion  in  rats  and  dogs  and  the  pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions  due  to 
gastrointentinal sequestration of other drugs. As colesevelam is a stable polymer metabolism studies 
were not performed. 
As sequestration of bile salts could reduce the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) part 
of the toxicology studies also contained assays  for plasma  vitamin levels. Deficiencies in vitamin K 
levels, possibly leading to haemorrhages were assayed indirectly by measuring clotting parameters. 
The maximum doses used in the toxicology studies were in the range of 2 to 3.6 g/kg/day. This is 27 
to 50 times the maximum human therapeutic dose (MTD) of approximately 73 mg/kg/day for a 60 kg 
person.  A  comprehensive  package  of  toxicology  studies  was  submitted  including  repeated  dose 
toxicity studies in rats and dogs for up to 6 months and 1 year, respectively, and a complete package of 
reproductive toxicity studies. The genotoxic potential was evaluated in an Ames test, a chromosome 
aberration  assay  in  CHO  cells  and  in  a  mouse  micronucleus  test.  The  carcinogenic  potential  was 
evaluated in two conventional carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats. Finally, degradation products 
in colesevelam were qualified in additional repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity studies.  
Efficacy 
Pharmacodynamics:  Colesevelam  is  a  non-absorbed,  lipid-lowering  polymer  that  binds  bile  acids  in 
the intestine, impeding their reabsorption. In a 6-month dose-response study in patients with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia receiving 3.8 or 4.5 g Cholestagel, a 15 to 18% decrease in LDL-C levels was 
observed,  which  was  evident  within  2  weeks  of  administration.  In  addition,  total-C  decreased  7  to 
10%,  HDL-C  increased  3%  and  triglycerides  increased  9  to  10%.  Apo B  decreased  by  12%.  In 
comparison,  in  patients  given  placebo,  LDL-C,  total-C,  HDL-C  and  apo-B  were  unchanged,  while 
triglycerides  increased  5%.  Studies  examining  administration  of  Cholestagel  as  a  single  dose  with 
33/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
breakfast,  a  single  dose  with  dinner,  or  as  divided  doses  with  breakfast  and  dinner  did  not  show 
significant differences in LDL-C reduction for different dosing schedules.  
Clinical efficacy: It has to be pointed out that Cholestagel has not been compared directly to other bile 
acid  sequestrants  in  clinical  trials  and  the  effects  of  Cholestagel  on  mortality  or  morbidity  are  not 
known.  For  this  reason  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  should  remain  the  first  line  treatment  in 
patients with hypercholesterolaemia.  
Initiation of add-on treatment with Cholestagel subsequent to statin therapy has not been specifically 
studied.  However,  Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a  well-known  and 
recognised  mechanism  of  primary  and  secondary  pharmacological  actions.  No  unexpected 
pharmacological properties are present. It is recommended by various expert panels to use this class of 
agents  with  statins.  A  number  of  already  registered  bile  acid  sequestrants  (cholestyramine  and 
colestipol)  are  indicated  for  the  add-on  indication.  Post-marketing  data  from  the  US  do  not  indicate 
any specific problems with regard to efficacy while a significant number of patients were already on 
the maximum approved dose of a statin. Moreover, multi-centre, randomised, double blind, placebo-
controlled studies in 487 patients demonstrated an additive reduction of 8 to 16% in LDL-C when 2.3 
to 3.8 g Cholestagel and a statin (atorvastatin, lovastatin or simvastatin) were administered at the same 
time.  
Cholestagel  is  indicated  for  co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in 
patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who are not adequately controlled with a statin alone,  
and as monotherapy as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total and LDL-cholesterol 
in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin is considered inappropriate 
or is not well tolerated. 
In  order  to  gather  further  efficacy  and  safety  data  the  Applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  Post 
Approval  Study  of  Cholestagel  as  add-on  therapy  to  an  optimal  dose  of  statin  and  in  the 
hypercholesterolaemic paediatric population.  
Safety 
Safety data show a relatively mild adverse event profile and reasonable tolerability to Cholestagel. 
Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a  well-known  and  recognised  mechanism  of 
primary  and  secondary  pharmacological  actions.  The  side  effects  that  were  notably  increased  in 
frequency relative to placebo treated patients are constipation and dyspepsia. Compared with placebo, 
the  percentage  of  patients  reporting  these  adverse  events  are  increased  approximately  by  5%. 
Constipation  and  dyspepsia  are  generally  mild  or  moderate  in  intensity  and  rarely  resulted  in  study 
termination.  
Cholestagel  increased  mean  AST,  ALT,  and  alkaline  phosphatase  levels  slightly  when  used  alone 
using  dichotomised  endpoints.  These  changes  were  anticipated  because  bile  acid  sequestrants  are 
known  to  cause  slight  increases  in  liver  function  tests.  There  were  small  statistically  significant  but 
clinically  irrelevant  decreases  in  PTT  for  the  Cholestagel  group.  Caution  should  be  exercised  when 
treating patients with a susceptibility to vitamin K or fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies, such as patients 
with malabsorption. Further, anticoagulant therapy should be monitored closely in patients receiving 
warfarin or similar agents, since bile acid sequestrants have been shown both to reduce absorption of 
vitamin K and to interfere with warfarin’s anticoagulant effect. 
There  was  an  increase  in  myalgia  for  the  Cholestagel/HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  group  as 
compared  with  HGM-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  alone;  however,  a  statistical  comparison  showed  the 
difference to be non-significant (p=0.29). 
Of concern is the increase in triglycerides seen during colesevelam treatment. 2% of Cholestagel only 
and no placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels of ≥ 6 mmol/L; 7% 
of Cholestagel and 5% of placebo patients experienced treatment emergent serum triglyceride levels 
≥ 4  mmol/L.  However,  these  pharmacodynamic  effects  are  well  known  with  the  other  bile  acid 
binding resins. Caution should be exercised when treating patients with triglyceride levels greater than 
3.4 mmol/L due to the triglyceride increasing effect with Cholestagel.  
In  order  to  gather  further  efficacy  and  safety  data  the  Applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  Post 
Approval  Studies  of  Cholestagel  as  add-on  therapy  to  an  optimal  dose  of  statin  and  in  the 
hypercholesterolaemic paediatric population.  
34/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
the  efficacy  of 
Following the review of the submitted documentation, and the final SPC and letter of undertaking, the 
CPMP  agreed  that  Cholestagel  has  shown  efficacy  in  patients  with  hypercholesterolaemia  that  is 
clinically relevant and that allows a conclusion on an acceptable benefit/risk.  
Cholestagel  belongs  to  the  bile  sequestrants  class  with  a  well-known  and  recognised  mechanism  of 
primary and secondary pharmacological actions. Cholestagel has not been compared directly to other 
bile acid sequestrants in clinical trials and the effects of Cholestagel on mortality or morbidity are not 
known.  For  this  reason  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  should  remain  the  first  line  treatment  in 
patients with hypercholesterolaemia. 
It has been demonstrated also for Cholestagel that the combination with statins is more effective than 
the  monocomponents.  Furthermore,  post-marketing  data  from  the  US  do  not  indicate  any  specific 
problems with regard to efficacy and/or safety while a significant number of patients were already on 
the maximum approved dose of a statin. 
Despite 
inhibitors,  many  patients  with  severe 
hypercholesterolaemia  may  not  respond  sufficiently  and  will  require  combination  therapy,  using  an 
add-on  approach,  to  achieve  target  LDL  cholesterol  levels.  Colesevelam  could  be  an  alternative  to 
HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  in  patients  where  these  are  contraindicated  or  not  tolerated. 
Cholestagel  is  indicated  for  co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in 
patients  with  primary  hypercholesterolaemia  who  are  not  adequately  controlled  with  a  statin  alone, 
and as monotherapy as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated total and LDL-cholesterol 
in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a statin is considered inappropriate 
or is not well tolerated.  
The CPMP did not consider it necessary to perform an add-on study in patients who have responded 
insufficiently to the optimal dosage prior to registration. However, in order to gather further efficacy 
and safety data the Applicant has committed to perform a Post Approval Study of Cholestagel as add-
on therapy to an optimal dose of statin. In addition, the Applicant has committed to perform a Post-
Approval  study  in  the  hypercholesterolaemic  paediatric  population  and  to  undertake  additional 
interaction studies.  
the  HMG-CoA  reductase 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Cholestagel  for  “co-administration  with  an  HMG-CoA 
reductase  inhibitor  (statin)  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  to  provide  an  additive  reduction  in  LDL-
cholesterol  (LDL-C)  levels  in  patients  with  primary  hypercholesterolaemia  who  are  not  adequately 
controlled  with  a  statin  alone”,  and  “as  monotherapy  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  for  reduction  of 
elevated total and LDL-cholesterol in patients with isolated primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a 
statin is considered inappropriate or is not well tolerated”, was favourable and therefore recommended 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
35/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
