EMA/413932/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002559 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cholib 
fenofibrate / simvastatin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cholib. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Cholib. 
For practical information about using Cholib, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Cholib and what is it used for? 
Cholib is a medicine for improving blood fat levels. It contains two active substances, fenofibrate and 
simvastatin, and is used together with a low fat diet and exercise with the aim of reducing patients’ 
levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) and increasing their levels of ‘good’ cholesterol (HDL cholesterol). 
Cholib is to be used in adults at high risk of heart disease whose levels of ‘bad’ cholesterol (LDL 
cholesterol) are already being controlled with the corresponding dose of simvastatin alone.  
How is Cholib used? 
Before starting treatment with Cholib, possible causes of the abnormal levels of blood fats should be 
adequately treated and patients should be placed on a standard fat-lowering diet. 
Cholib can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets (145/20 mg and 
145/40 mg). The recommended dose is one tablet a day to be swallowed whole with a glass of water. 
Grapefruit juice should be avoided during Cholib treatment as this is known to alter the amount of 
simvastatin in the blood. 
How does Cholib work? 
The active substances in Cholib, fenofibrate and simvastatin, work in different ways and their actions 
have a complementary effect. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Fenofibrate is a ‘PPARα agonist’. This means that it activates a type of receptor called the ‘peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor alpha’ (PPARα), which is involved in breaking down fats from diet, 
especially triglycerides. When these receptors are activated, the breakdown of fats speeds up, which 
helps clear the blood of ‘bad’ cholesterol and triglycerides. 
The second active substance, simvastatin, belongs to the group called ‘statins’. It reduces total blood 
cholesterol by blocking the action of HMG-CoA reductase, an enzyme in the liver involved in the 
production of cholesterol. As the liver needs cholesterol to produce bile, the reduced blood cholesterol 
level causes the liver cells to produce receptors that draw cholesterol from the blood, reducing its level 
even further. The cholesterol drawn out of the blood in this way is the ‘bad’ cholesterol. 
What benefits of Cholib have been shown in studies? 
Cholib has been shown to be more effective than statins alone in reducing levels of triglycerides and 
increasing levels of good cholesterol.  
In a main study comparing Cholib 145/20 mg with simvastatin 40 mg in 1,050 patients not adequately 
treated with 20 mg simvastatin alone, triglyceride levels decreased by around 36% with Cholib after 12 
weeks compared with 12% with simvastatin. In addition, levels of good cholesterol increased by 
around 7% with Cholib compared with around 2% with simvastatin. 
Another study compared Cholib 145/40 mg with simvastatin 40 mg in 450 patients not adequately 
treated with 40 mg simvastatin alone. It showed that Cholib led to a greater reduction in triglyceride 
levels (33% versus 7%) and to higher levels of good cholesterol (6% increase versus a 1% decrease).  
Two further studies compared Cholib with other statins (atorvastatin and pravastatin) and showed 
Cholib to be more effective than those statins given alone. 
What are the risks associated with Cholib? 
The most common side effects with Cholib are raised blood creatinine levels, upper respiratory tract 
infection (colds), increased blood platelet counts, gastroenteritis (diarrhoea and vomiting) and 
increased levels of alanine aminotransferase (a liver enzyme). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Cholib, see the package leaflet. 
Cholib must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to peanuts, soya lecithin or any of 
the ingredients of the medicine. It must also not be used in pregnant or breast-feeding women, in 
people known to have light-induced reactions to fibrates or ketoprofen, or those who have liver or 
gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, or moderately or severely reduced kidney function, or who have 
previously had muscle problems while taking statins or fibrates. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Cholib approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) considered that the 
combination of fenofibrate and simvastatin has been shown to be effective at improving blood fat 
levels. In all studies the reductions in triglycerides and the increases in good cholesterol were higher 
with Cholib than with a statin alone. The Committee also noted that the combination of fenofibrate and 
simvastatin is already being used in clinical practice. 
With regard to the safety of Cholib, the side effects reported in the studies were consistent with what is 
known about the two active substances and there were no major concerns. The Committee therefore 
Cholib  
EMA/413932/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
concluded that Cholib’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cholib? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Cholib is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Cholib, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Cholib 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cholib on 26 August 2013.  
The full EPAR for Cholib can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Cholib, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2013. 
Cholib  
EMA/413932/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
