Summary of Risk Management Plan for Cholib® (Fenofibrate/Simvastatin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cholib®. The RMP details important 
risks of fenofibrate/simvastatin, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about fenofibrate/simvastatin's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cholib®'s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Cholib®  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cholib®'s 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Cholib® is indicated ‘as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise in high cardiovascular risk adult 
patients with mixed dyslipidemia to reduce triglycerides and increase HDL-C levels when LDL-C 
levels are adequately controlled with the corresponding dose of simvastatin monotherapy 20 mg 
or 40 mg’ in the EEA. It contains fenofibrate/simvastatin as the active substance, and it is given 
by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cholib®’s benefits can be found in Cholib®’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise 
the Risks  
Important risks of Cholib®, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Cholib®'s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Cholib® is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important  risks  of  Cholib®  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise  the risk,  so that the medicinal  product  can  be safely taken by  patients. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cholib®. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important Identified Risks 
• 
• 
• 
Cholelithiasis 
Pancreatitis 
Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Drug-induced hepatitis 
Elevations in serum creatinine  
Photosensitivity 
Venous thromboembolic disease 
Severe cutaneous reactions: Erythema Multiforme (EM), 
            Stevens-Johnson-Syndrome (SJS) and Toxic Epidermal  
            Necrolysis (TEN) 
Interstitial lung disease 
New  onset  diabetes  mellitus  and  hyperglycemia  with 
Increased risk of Major Adverse Cardiac Events in women 
• 
• 
statins 
• 
on 
            combined treatment 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Increased blood homocysteine levels 
Children/adolescents (< 18 years) 
Pregnant/lactating women 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
Patients with hepatic insufficiency 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
II.B Summary of Important Risks  
The  important  risks  are  well  described  in  the  proposed  product  information  and  appropriately 
managed by routine pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation measures already in place. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Cholib®.  
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Cholib®. 
 
