27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Cholib  
International non-proprietary name: fenofibrate / simvastatine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002559/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ........................................................................................ 2 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ............................................................................ 3 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 6 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 24 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 34 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 56 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 62 
2.8. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 63 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................... 64 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 64 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 67 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 2/70 
 
  
  
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
ACCORD (study) 
Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes 
ACO 
ACS 
ApoB 
ATP III 
AUC 
BE 
BLQ 
BMI 
CHD 
CHF 
CI 
Cmax 
CRP 
CV 
CVD 
CYP 
DEHP 
eGFR 
FA 
FDC  
Acyl-CoA oxidase 
Acute Coronary Syndrome 
apolipoprotein B 
Adult Treatment Panel III 
Area under Curve 
Bioequivalence 
Below Limit of Quantification 
Body Mass Index 
Coronary Heart Disease 
Congestive Heart Failure 
Confidence interval 
Maximal concentration 
C-Reactive Protein 
Cardiovascular 
Cardiovascular Disease 
Cytochrome P 
di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 
Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate 
Fenofibric acid 
Fixed Dose Combination 
FIELD (study) 
Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes 
FXR 
GI 
HDL-C 
HMGCoA 
HR 
LDL-C 
LLOQ 
Lp(a) 
LXR 
MI 
NCEP 
PPAR 
PK 
PTY 
SVA 
SV 
T2DM 
TG 
Tmax 
TSH 
Farnesoid X Receptor 
Gastro intestinal 
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl Coenzyme A 
Hazard Ratio 
Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
Lower Limit of Quantification 
Lipoprotein (a) 
Liver X Receptor 
Myocardial Infarction 
National Cholesterol Education Program 
Peroxysome proliferator activated receptor 
Pharmacokinetic 
Patient Treatment Year(s) 
Simvastatin acid 
Simvastatin 
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus 
Triglycerides 
Time to peak concentration 
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone 
Total-C 
Total Cholesterol 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 3/70 
 
  
  
UCP 
UGT 
Uncoupling Protein 
UDP-Glucuronosyltransferase 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 4/70 
 
  
  
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Abbott Healthcare Products Ltd. submitted on 21 December 2011 an application 
for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Cholib  (originally 
under  the  name  Treakol),  through  the  centralised  procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by 
the  EMA/CHMP  on  21  July  2011.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure  under  Article 
3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was based on demonstration of interest of patients at 
Community level. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Treakol is indicated in adults as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise in mixed dyslipidaemia 
where use of a combination product is appropriate to reduce triglycerides and increase HDL-
cholesterol levels in patients at high cardiovascular risk who are not adequately controlled with 
a statin alone. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to 
applications for new fixed combination products. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA 
Decision P/92/2009 on the granting of a waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC)  No  847/2000,  the  applicant  did  not  submit  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible 
similarity  with  authorised  orphan  medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan 
medicinal product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 5/70 
 
  
  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Abbott Healthcare SAS 
Lieu-dit Maillard 
Route de Belleville 
F-01400 Châtillon sur Chalaronne 
France 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Robert James Hemmings   Co-Rapporteur: Alar Irs 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 21 December 2011. 
•  The procedure started on 25 January 2012.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 April 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members 
on 17 April 2012.  
•  During the meeting on 24 May 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 May 2012. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 12 
November 2012. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 18 December 2012. 
•  During the meeting on 8 January 2013, the Pharmacovigilance and Risk Assessment 
Committee (PRAC) adopted RMP Advice and assessment overview. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 17 January 2013, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding Issues on 15 
February 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 7 March 2013, the Pharmacovigilance and Risk Assessment 
Committee (PRAC) adopted RMP Advice and assessment overview. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 20 March 2013, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 6/70 
 
  
  
 
 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP and the CHMP adopted a second list 
of outstanding issues via written procedure on 5 April 2013. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 25 April 
2013. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 9 May 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 16 May 2013, the Pharmacovigilance and Risk Assessment 
Committee (PRAC) adopted RMP Advice and assessment overview. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 30 May 2013, the CHMP agreed on a third list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant and the assessment report was adopted 
via written procedure on 3 June 2013. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP third list of outstanding issues on 5 
June 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 12 June 2013, the Pharmacovigilance and Risk Assessment 
Committee (PRAC) adopted RMP Advice and assessment overview. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 12 June 2013. 
•  During the meeting on 27 June 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Cholib.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Hypercholesterolemia, represented by elevated levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-
C),  is  a  well-known  and  studied  dyslipidaemia  associated  with  increased  risk  for  CHD.  Statin 
treatment  is  highly  effective  for  lowering  serum  levels  of  LDL-C.  Nevertheless,  mixed 
dyslipidaemia  associated  with  low  levels  of  high-density  lipoprotein  cholesterol  (HDL-C)  and/or 
elevated triglycerides, which are risk factors independent of high LDL-C levels, is common.  
Cholib  is  a  fixed  combination  containing  two  lipid-lowering  agents  with  different  mechanisms  of 
action,  Fenofibrate  is  a  Peroxisome  Proliferator-Activated  Receptor  (PPAR)α  agonist  and 
simvastatin is an inhibitor of 3-Hydroxy-3-MethylGlutaryl-Coenzyme A(HMG-CoA) reductase. The 
product  is  formulated  as  immediate-release  film-coated  tablets  containing  145  mg  fenofibrate 
with  either  20  mg  or  40  mg  of  simvastatin.  The  products  are  of  similar  dimensions  and  are 
distinguished by their colour and inscription.   
Combination  of  lipid-lowering  agents  is  proposed  in  relevant  scientific  guidelines  to  reach 
secondary  goals  beyond  LDL-C,  such  as  Non-HDL-cholesterol  (Non-HDL-C)  and  to  improve  TG 
and  HDL-C.  Fibrates  have  accrued  sufficient  evidence  with  regard  to  reduction  of  triglycerides 
and elevation of HDL-C in the several trials, e.g. ACCORD lipid and FIELD trial in diabetics. These 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 7/70 
 
  
  
results  also  formed  the  basis  of  the  current  development  programme  for  Cholib.  Fenofibrate 
product information states that fenofibrate is effective in reducing the VLDL- and LDL-cholesterol 
in placebo controlled trials in addition to reducing triglycerides by 40-55% and increasing HDL-C 
by 10-30%. The claimed LDL-C reduction is around 15-30%.  
The  co-prescription  of  statins  and  fibrates  to  further  improve  the  lipid  profile  beyond  the 
beneficial effect obtained with statin monotherapy has been studied in numerous clinical studies. 
The  inclusion  of  the  combination  lipid  lowering  therapy  in  clinical  practice  was  limited  by  the 
absence  of  demonstrated  clinical  benefit  in  intervention  studies  to  date  and  the  observation  of 
muscle adverse events, with rare cases of rhabdomyolysis. 
The target pharmacodynamic properties of the combination are therefore based on a potentially 
beneficial addition of the properties of fenofibrate and simvastatin as lipid lowering agents. Based 
on  the  complementary  effects  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  and  the  safety  of  the  co-
administration  at  standard  doses,  the  overall  objective  of  the  development  program  was  to 
evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  fenofibrate  145  mg  and  simvastatin  20  and  40  mg  as  co-
administration  in  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidemia  at  risk  of  cardiovascular  diseases  with  no 
history of muscular disease that are not controlled by simvastatin, pravastatin or atorvastatin in 
monotherapy.    During  the  procedure  the  proposed  indication  was  changed  to  target  adjunctive 
therapy  to  diet  and  exercise  in  high  cardiovascular  risk  adult  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidaemia 
to  reduce  triglycerides  and  increase  HDL  C  levels  when  LDL  C  levels  are  adequately  controlled 
with the corresponding dose of simvastatin monotherapy 20 mg or 40 mg. 
Fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  have  been  registered  as  monotherapies  in  the  EU  via  national 
procedures.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Cholib  is  a  fixed  dose  combination  containing  two  well-known  active  substances  described  in 
the European Pharmacopeia fenofibrate and simvastatin. 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets in two strengths respectively containing 
145  mg  fenofibrate/20  mg  simvastatin  and  145  mg  fenofibrate/40  mg  simvastatin  as  active 
substances. 
Other  ingredients  are:  butylhydroxyanisole,  lactose,  sodium  laurilsulfate,  starch  pregelatinised 
(maize),  docusate  sodium,  sucrose,  citric  acid  monohydrate,  hypromellose,  crospovidone, 
magnesium stearate, silicified microcrystalline cellulose (comprised of cellulose, microcrystalline 
and silica, colloidal anhydrous) and ascorbic acid. 
Moreover for the coating: polyvinyl alcohol -partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide, talc, lecithin 
(derived from soya bean), xanthan gum and iron oxide red. The lower strength also contains: 
iron oxide yellow and sunset yellow FCF. 
The product is available in Alu/Alu blisters, in two pack sizes of 10 and 30 film-coated tablets. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 8/70 
 
  
  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Fenofibrate 
The 
chemical 
name 
(IUPAC) 
of 
fenofibrate 
is 
propan-2-yl 
2-{4-[(4-
chlorophenyl)carbonyl]phenoxy}-2-methylpropanoate,  its  molecular  formula  C20H21ClO4  and 
relative molecular mass 360.8 g/mol. It has the following structure: 
This  active  substance  is  used  as  the  micronized  form.  Fenofibrate  appears  as  a  white  to  off-
white crystalline powder, practically insoluble in water, very soluble in methylene chloride and 
slightly soluble in ethanol (96 %). As fenofibrate has no ionisable group, its water solubility is 
not influenced by the pH.  
As  there  is  a  monograph  of  fenofibrate  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia,  the  manufacturers  of 
the  active  substance  have  been  granted  a  Certificate  of  Suitability  of  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for this active substance. The CEPs have been provided within the current 
Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture 
Fenofibrate may be manufactured by two manufacturers, both covered by a CEP. The relevant 
information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the CEP. 
The active substance is further micronised in different sites to obtain the required particle size. 
This  step  is  not  covered  by  the  CEP.  The  applicant  has  confirmed  that  fenofibrate  is  routinely 
micronised irrespective of the particle size of the material. The micronisation is done in an air-
jet  mill.  In  order  to  obtain  the  required  particle  size  distribution  pattern,  the  operating 
parameters  of  dosing  speed  and  air  pressure  are  set  and  are  regularly  monitored  throughout 
the micronisation process. The overview of the micronisation procedures, provision for recycling 
or reprocessing and the process validation have been presented and are acceptable.  
Specification 
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and test method of the Ph. 
Eur.  monograph,  as  confirmed  by  the  CEP.  Additional  specifications  have  been  set  for  the 
particle  size  tested  by  laser  diffraction.  This  additional  method  has  been  adequately  validated 
and described according to ICH Q2. 
Batch  analysis  data  (3  production  scale  batches)  from  each  manufacturing  site  of  the  active 
substance were provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to 
batch. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 9/70 
 
  
  
 
Stability 
Stability  data  on  three  production  scale  batches  of  micronised  active  substance  from  the  first 
manufacturer  and  one  from  the  second  stored  in  a container  closure  system  representative of 
that intended for the market for 36 months under long term conditions at 25 ºC / 60% RH and 
for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  at  40  ºC  /  75%  RH  according  to  the  ICH 
guidelines were provided.  
In  addition,  photostability  studies  were  performed  on  two  lots  from  the  first  manufacturer  in 
line  with  the  ICH  Q1B  guideline.  A  very  slight  yellowing  of  fenofibrate  powder  was  observed 
after  light  exposure.  Nevertheless,  the  impurity  profile  remained  unchanged.  These  results 
demonstrated the photostability of the fenofibrate. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers 
is  sufficiently  stable.  The  stability  results  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  and  storage  for 
fenofibrate (micronized) in double polyethylene bags in a fibre drum is acceptable. 
Simvastatin 
The  chemical  name  (IUPAC)  of  simvastatin  is  (1S,3R,7S,8S,8aR)-8-[2-[(2R,4R)-4-Hydroxy-6-
oxotetrahydro-2H-pyran-2-yl]ethyl]-3,7-dimethyl-1,2,3,7,8,8ahexahydronaphthalen-1-yl  2,2-
dimethylbutanoate,  its  molecular  formula  is  C25H38O5  and  relative  molecular  mass  418.6 
g/mol. It has the following structure: 
This  active  substance  is  a  white  or  almost  white,  crystalline  powder  practically  insoluble  in 
water, very soluble in methylene chloride, freely soluble in ethanol (96 %). 
As there is a monograph of simvastatin in the European Pharmacopoeia, the manufacturers of 
the  active  substance  have  both  been  granted  CEPs,  which  were  provided  within  the  current 
Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture 
Simvastatin from two manufacturers is used for the finished product. The relevant information 
has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the CEPs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 10/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Specification 
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and method of the Ph.Eur. 
monograph,  as  confirmed  also  by  the  two  CEPs  provided.  Additional  tests  were  carried  out  in 
line for Butyl hydroxyl anisole (HPLC), Residual solvent (GC) and the particle size as indicated 
in the CEP. 
Batch analysis data (three commercial scale batches from the first manufacturer and two form 
the second) of the active substance were provided. The results are within the specifications and 
consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
The CEP of each active substance manufacturer includes a suitably validated re-test period in a 
defined container closure system. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Cholib is an immediate-release tablet proposed in two dosage strengths: fenofibrate 145 mg / 
simvastatin 20 mg and fenofibrate 145 mg / simvastatin 40 mg. The tablets are manufactured 
by  mixing  a  fenofibrate  granulate  and  a  simvastatin  granulate,  blending,  compression,  and 
coating.  This  fixed  combination  was developed  with the  intention to address  the  medical  need 
to control all relevant lipid parameters in mixed dyslipidaemia. 
Fenofibrate  granulate  is  obtained  from  a  process  for  another  fenofibrate  product  marketed  by 
the  applicant  in  many  EU  member  states.  The  strategy  was  to  utilise  the  spray  granulation 
intermediate (SGI) of the fenofibrate 145 mg tablets in combination with a granulated source of 
simvastatin.  Manufacture  of  the  SGI  involves  the  conversion  of  fenofibrate  into  a  nanocrystal 
colloidal  dispersion  (NCD).  This  technology  ensures  rapid  dissolution  of  the  fenofibrate  and  a 
rapid onset of action and comparable pharmacokinetic profile as the marketed formulation. The 
SGI is then incorporated into a tablet which demonstrates no difference in absorption between 
fed and fasted state. The formulation was further optimised to obtain a stable fenofibrate NCD 
and subsequently a redispersible granulate which is the major component of the dosage form. 
The final formulation was also optimised with regard to the crystalline state of sucrose. 
Simvastatin  granulate  was  based  on  an  authorised  simvastatin  product.  It  is  known  that 
simvastatin absorption is not affected by food. It is also known that simvastatin is susceptible 
to  oxidative  degradation.  In  order  to  produce  a  stable  formulation,  the  inclusion  of  an 
antioxidant in the formulation is required. Pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants classified as 
GRAS  (Generally  Regarded  As  Safe)  were  considered  as  part  of  the  formulation.  As  the 
qualitative composition of the authorised simvastatin product includes butylated hydroxyanisole 
(BHA),  citric  acid,  and  ascorbic  acid  as  antioxidants  and  stabilizers,  investigations  were 
performed  on  how  to  include  these  in  the  simvastatin  granulate.  Different  options  of 
incorporating  BHA  in  the  simvastatin  granulate  were  explored.  Based  on  the  qualitative 
composition  of  the  authorised  simvastatin  product,  ascorbic  acid  was  also  added  as  stabiliser 
while citric acid was considered necessary to complex with metal ions which otherwise act as a 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 11/70 
 
  
  
 
source of free radicals and thus initiate oxidative degradation. After several granulation and PK 
studies  starch  was  selected  as  a  binder  because  of  a  trend  in  bioequivalence  with  the 
authorised simvastatin product. Simvastatin granulate is also manufactured by wet granulation. 
Matrix  and  bilayer  tablets  prototype  formulation  were  investigated  and  the  results  led  to  the 
selection  of  the  matrix  granulate.  A  film  coating  to  reduce  any  potential  effect  of  moisture  in 
the stability of the tablets was chosen. 
The  first  pharmacokinetic  study  in  humans  (PK1)  was  performed  with  uncoated  tablets. 
However the formulation used during the rest of the clinical studies was the same that the one 
used for marketing.  
The pivotal clinical studies were carried out by co-administration of fenofibrate and simvastatin 
monotherapy  tablets  and  the  applicant  has  carried  out  one  bioequivalence  studies  for  each 
strength  of  the  proposed  combination  product  with  the  products  administered  in  clinical  trials 
(see clinical part). 
Comparative  dissolution  data  were  provided  for  the  batched  tested  in  the  in  vivo  studies.  The 
dissolution profiles were found similar and any differences have been properly justified. Further 
dissolution  data,  in  support  of  the  bioequivalence  study,  have  been  submitted  in  accordance 
with  the  guidelines,  however  replacement  batches  had  to  be  used  as  the  test  and  reference 
products used in the bioequivalence study had in the meantime expired. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. 
Eur.  standards  apart  from  film-coat  Opadry  and  Silicified  Microcrystalline  Cellulose  which  are 
controlled by suitable specifications. There was no novel excipients used in he finished product 
formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC.  
Two compatibility studies were carried out and demonstrated that fenofibrate was not affected 
by  simvastatin.  It  was  shown  that  any  degradation  products  formed  may  be  detected  and 
quantified by the analytical methods used to control the finished medicinal product. 
The primary packaging is an Alu/Alu blister. The choice of the container has been validated by 
stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Adventitious agents 
No  excipients  derived  from  human  or  animal  origin  have  been  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
Cholib  with  the  exception  of  lactose.  It  was  confirmed  that  it  is  produced  from  milk  from 
healthy  animals  in  the  same  conditions  as  those  used  to  collect  milk  for  human  consumption 
and  that  the  lactose  has  been  prepared  without  the  use  of  ruminant  material  other  than  calf 
rennet  according  to  the  note  for  guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform  encephalopathy  agents  via  human  and  veterinary  medicinal  products.  Appropriate 
BSE/TSE statements were provided for lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  six  main  steps:  preparation  of  fenofibrate  granule 
intermediate,  preparation  of  simvastatin  granule  intermediate,  preparation  of  fenofibrate  – 
simvastatin  blend  intermediate  product,  compression  of  tablet  core,  film-coating  and  finished 
product  packaging.  The  process  is  considered  to  be  a  standard  manufacturing  process  except 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 12/70 
 
  
  
for the production of the fenofibrate SGI. The validation data for the manufacturing process of 
fenofibrate SGI were presented at commercial scale and demonstrated that the process is well 
controlled within the defined manufacturing parameters. 
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated by  a  number  of  studies.  It  has 
been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product 
of  intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  critical  steps  of  the  manufacturing  scheme 
were  identified  and  suitable  in-process  controls  and  holding  times  have  been  set.  The  in-
process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process.  
Product specification 
The  finished  product  specification  include  appropriate  test  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form: 
appearance  (visual  examination),  identification  (HPLC  and  UV),  identification  and  assay  of 
antioxidants (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), assay (HPLC), content uniformity (Ph. Eur.), 
moisture content (KF), dissolution (Ph. Eur.), microbial purity (Ph. Eur.).  
Batch analysis results were provided for three pilot scale batches for each strength, confirming 
the  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process  and  its  ability  to  manufacture  to  the  intended 
product specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  data  of  three  pilot  scale  batches  per  strength  of  finished  product,  stored  under  long 
term  conditions  for  24  months  at  25ºC  /  60%  RH  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated 
conditions  at  40ºC  /  75%  RH  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  The  batches  of 
Cholib  were  packed  in  the  primary  packaging  proposed  for  marketing.  Confirmation  was 
provided that the first three commercial scale batches of both strengths will be put in stability 
tested. 
The  following  parameters  were  studied  using  the  release  specification  methods:  appearance, 
content of fenofibrate and its degradation products, content of simvastatin and its degradation 
products, dissolution of fenofibrate and simvastatin, and microbiological quality (only tested at 
initial and 24 months). 
In  addition  photostability  studies  were  carried  out  on  two  batches  of  each  strength  in 
accordance with ICH guidelines. All batches showed a slight decrease in content of fenofibrate 
and  simvastatin  after  exposure  to  light.  However,  all  the  batches  remained  within  the 
specifications.  No  significant  changes  were  seen  in  percentage  of  specified  and  unspecified 
impurities during exposure to light. 
Based  on  the  available  data  the  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the  SmPC  is 
acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished 
product  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out indicate 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 13/70 
 
  
  
to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in 
clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform 
clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory 
way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
N/A 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Cholib  is  a  fixed  combination  of  two  lipid-lowering  agents  with  different  mechanisms  of  action:  
Fenofibrate  being  a  Peroxisome  Proliferator-Activated  Receptor  (PPAR)  α-agonist,  and 
simvastatin  being  an 
inhibitor  of  3-Hydroxy-3-MethylGlutaryl-Coenzyme  A  (HMG-CoA) 
reductase.The  use  of  the  therapeutic  classes  of  such  medicinal  products  in  combination  is  well 
known. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
There  is  sufficient  evidence  of  their  primary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  the  individual 
components, fenofibrate and simvastatin, and the conduct of specific primary pharmacodynamics 
studies with the combination is not considered necessary.  
Fenofibrate is a prodrug rapidly hydrolysed by esterases to the active metabolite fenofibric acid. 
It  is  commonly  held  that  the  pharmacologic  effects  of  fenofibrate  are  therefore  attributable  to 
fenofibric  acid.  Fenofibrate  demonstrates  a  wide  range  of  effects  on  the  synthetic  and catabolic 
pathways involved in lipids, carbohydrates and amino acid metabolism, and has been effectively 
used  for  years  for  the  treatment  of  dyslipidemia.  Fenofibrate  results  in  significant  decreases  in 
plasma triglycerides as well as decreases in total cholesterol, LDL-C, VLDL-C, apoB, and apoC-III, 
an  inhibitor  of  lipoprotein  lipase.  In  conjunction  with  these  decreases,  there  are  concomitant 
increases  in  HDL-C  and  its  major  constituents  apoA-I  and  apoA-II,  as  well  as  apoC-II,  a 
stimulator of lipoprotein lipase. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 14/70 
 
  
  
 
Simvastatin  is  a  pro-drug  hydrolysed  in  the  liver  to  the  active  metabolite  β-hydroxyacid 
simvastatin and four other active metabolites. Clinical trials have demonstrated that simvastatin 
prevents  cardiovascular  events  and  reduces  mortality  in  primary  and  secondary  prevention  of 
ischemic  heart  disease.  Simvastatin  reduces  both  normal  and  elevated  LDL  cholesterol 
concentrations.  LDL  is  formed  from  VLDL  and  is  catabolised  predominantly  by  the  high  affinity 
LDL receptor. The LDL-lowering mechanisms of simvastatin may involve both reduction of VLDL 
cholesterol  concentrations  and  induction  of  the  LDL  receptor  leading  to  reduced  production  and 
increased  catabolism  of  LDL  cholesterol.  Apo  B  also  falls  substantially  during  treatment  with 
simvastatin.  In  addition,  simvastatin  slightly  increases  HDL  cholesterol  and  reduces  plasma 
triglycerides. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  are  drugs  extensively  used  for  many  years  and,  therefore,  were 
evaluated in a number of experimental models.  
In cell-free assays, fenofibrate modulated the membrane rigidity and, in mice given fenofibrate, 
the  Aβ 42  form  of  the  amyloid  peptide  in  their  brains  increased,  possibly  because  fenofibrate 
caused structural changes in γ-secretase, the enzyme responsible of Aβ 42 production. Similarly, 
simvastatin was shown to have negative effects on nerve myelinisation in vitro. 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  conducted  with  the  fixed  combination  of  Cholib. 
This is acceptable since the potential off-target effect on vital organs is sufficiently addressed in 
the SmPC of these approved medicinal products. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No non-clinical safety pharmacology studies were conducted with the fixed combination since the 
concomitant  clinical  use  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  was  not  reported  to  be  associated  with 
unexpected  side-effects.  The  effects  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  on  skeletal  muscles  are 
reported in the toxicology section.  
In  vitro,  fenofibrate  had  anti-proliferative  effects  on  cardiomyocytes  and  inhibited  the 
hypertrophy  of  rat  cardiomyocytes.  Fenofibrate  markedly  inhibited  the  endothelin-1  (ET-1)-
induced  increase  in  c-Jun  gene  expression  and  phosphorylation  of  c-Jun.  These  results  suggest 
that  fenofibrate  interferes  with  the  formation  of  activating  protein-1  (AP-1)  induced  by  ET-1  in 
cardiomyocytes.  In  a  rat  model  of  heart  failure,  dosing  with  fenofibrate  for  11  weeks  inhibited 
the development of left ventricle (LV) hypertrophy, attenuated the LV relaxation abnormality and 
systolic  dysfunction  and  improved  the  survival  rate.  This  was  accompanied  by  the  inhibition  of 
the pro-inflammatory pathways of NF-κB and AP-1. In another model of rat infarct-induced heart 
failure,  fenofibrate  given  for  12  weeks  resulted  in  an  up-regulation  of  the  fatty  acid  metabolic 
pathway  but  did  not  improve  LV  hypertrophy  or  dysfunction.  Fenofibrate  was  also  shown  to 
reduce  the  LV  hypertrophy  in  another  rat  model,  and  its  effect  was  potentiated  by  the 
PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone. 
Simvastatin  induced  apoptosis  of  rat  primary  cardiomyocytes  but,  in  synergy  with  losartan, 
prevented  angiotensin 
II-induced  apoptosis  of  cardiomyocytes.  Simvastatin 
induced 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 15/70 
 
  
  
mitochondrial  impairment  and  alteration  of  Ca2+  homeostasis  in  permeabilised  but  not  in  intact 
rat ventricular cardiomyocytes. 
In  a  pig  model  of  “no-reflow”  (an  incomplete  myocardial  reperfusion  after  acute  myocardial 
infarction,  despite  complete  restoration  of  epicardial  vessel  blood  flow),  pre-treatment  with 
simvastatin  significantly  increased  coronary  blood  flow,  decreased  the  area  of  no-reflow  and 
reduced the necrotic area. Fenofibrate was ineffective in this model but was shown beneficial in 
two  other  pig  models.  In  pacing-induced  heart  failure  in  pigs,  fenofibrate  attenuated  the 
reduction  in  left  ventricular  ejection,  reduced  cardiac  hypertrophy  and  clinical  signs  of  heart 
failure.  In  a  coronary  angioplasty  pig  model,  fenofibrate  inhibited  constrictive  remodelling  and 
neointima formation through inhibition of inflammation and adventitial neovascularisation. 
Simvastatin  decreased  coenzyme  Q  (CoQ)  modulated  resistance  to  oxidative  stress.  Mice  given 
simvastatin  had  reduced  levels  of  oxidised  and  reduced  CoQ9  and  CoQ 10  in  serum,  liver,  and 
heart. In addition, cultured cardiac myocytes treated with simvastatin exhibited less resistance to 
oxidative  stress,  decreased  time  to  the  cessation  of  spontaneous  beating  in  response  to  H2O2 
addition,  and  decreased  responsiveness  to  electrical  field  stimulation.  These  effects  were 
alleviated  by  the  co-administration  of  CoQ10  with  simvastatin.  In  a  rat  model  of  hypertension 
induced  by  chronic  L-NAME  administration,  simvastatin  decreased  concentrations  of  both  CoQ 
homologues  in  the  heart  and  slightly  decreased  CoQ9  concentration  in  the  skeletal  muscle.  No 
effects  were  observed  on  hepatic  CoQ  level.  In  the  same  model,  simvastatin  was  shown  to 
attenuate  the  inhibition  of  NO-synthase  activity  in  kidney  and  brain,  partly  prevented  the 
development  of  hypertension  and  reduced  the  concentration  of  cardiac  CoQ.  Nevertheless, 
myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis and remodelling of the aorta were not prevented. 
Potential  effects  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  on  vital  systems  other  than  cardiovascular,  i.e. 
CNS, respiratory, renal and digestive systems are adequately reflected in the proposed SmPC. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  studies  were  conducted  with  the  fixed  combination  of 
Cholib. Based on the date available for simvastatin and fenofibrate, and the review of literature, 
it  can  be  concluded  that  possible  pharmacodynamic  interactions  of  the  fixed  combination  with 
other drugs are those of each drug considered separately. 
Of  importance  are  the  clinically-documented  potentiating  effects  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin 
on  oral,  vitamin  K-dependent  anticoagulants.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  that  the  SmPC  of 
the fixed combination of Cholib reflects these properties. In patients taking the fixed combination 
of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  an  oral  anticoagulant  therapy  should  be  started  with  a  reduced 
dose and then gradually adjusted according to INR monitoring, as advised in the SmPC. 
Interaction  between  the  PPARα  and  the  statin  signalling  pathways  which  would  provide 
opportunities  for  pharmacodynamic  interactions  has  been  reported.  This  interaction  between 
their  signalling  pathways  could  also  lead  to  synergism  between  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  for 
the unintended effects of the combination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 16/70 
 
  
  
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
As  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  two  well-known  mono-components  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin 
were  extensively  investigated  and  are  considered  well  described,  no  absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism and excretion studies have been conducted with the fixed combination Cholib. 
Fenofibrate  
Absorption: After oral administration, fenofibrate is rapidly hydrolysed by esterases to the active 
metabolite  fenofibric  acid.  No  unchanged  fenofibrate  can  be  detected  in  the  plasma.  The 
maximum  plasma  concentrations  of  fenofibric  acid  occur  within  2  to  4  hours  after  oral 
administration. 
Distribution: The tissue radioactivity concentration in [14C]-Fenofibrate on 0.5, 4, 8, 24, 72, and 
168  hours  after  single  oral  administration  to  Sprague-Dawley  rats  was  measured.  The  highest 
concentration 30 minutes after administration was found in the liver, the kidney and the stomach 
corresponding  to  2  to  3  times  the  plasma  concentration.  Between  4  to  24  hr,  the  highest 
concentrations  are  found  in  the  liver  (2.5  to  4  times  the  plasma  concentration)  and  the  kidney 
(1.2 to 2 times the plasma concentration). 
The protein binding rate of plasma concentration was about 99% for both male and female rats. 
The  transfer  of  radioactivity  to  milk  was  investigated  following  the  oral  administration  of 
[14C]fenofibrate  to  lactating  rats  on  the  10th  day  after  delivery.  The  radioactivity  in  the  milk 
reached a maximum at 12 hours after the dosing, and decreased with a half-life of 10 hours from 
12 to 48 hours. The AUC of radioactivity in the milk was 7 times higher than that in the plasma. 
Metabolism:  In  vitro  studies  using  human  liver  microsomes  indicated  that  fenofibrate  and 
fenofibric acid are not inhibitors of the CYP isoforms CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or CYP1A2. They 
are  weak  inhibitors  of  CYP2C19  and  CYP2A6,  and  mild-to-moderate  inhibitors  of  CYP2C9  at 
concentrations  of  30-50  µM.  They  were  also  found  to  be  moderate  inhibitors  of  CYP2B6  and 
CYP2C8 in human hepatic microsomes. Fenofibrate and fenofibric acid are not substrates of the 
membrane  transporter  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp),  but  showed  moderate  P-gp  inhibition  in  vitro. 
Fenofibrate  and  fenofibric  acid  showed  a  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of  the  human 
organic  anion  transporting-polypeptide  1B1  in  vitro,  at  IC50  without  clinical  relevance  when 
considering  fenofibric  acid  concentrations  actually  achieved  in  clinical  practice.  Fenofibrate 
showed no significant inhibition of multidrug resistance protein 2 in vitro. 
Excretion: Fenofibrate and its glucuronide conjugate are excreted mainly in the urine. Practically 
all  the  drug  is  eliminated  within  6  days.  The  plasma  elimination  half-life  of  fenofibric  acid  is 
approximately 20 hours. 
Simvastatin  
Absorption:  In  human,  simvastatin  is  well  absorbed  and  undergoes  extensive  hepatic  first-pass 
extraction.  Maximum  plasma  concentration  of  active  inhibitors  is  reached  approximately  1-2 
hours after administration of simvastatin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 17/70 
 
  
  
Distribution: Both simvastatin and its β-hydroxyacid metabolite are highly bound (approximately 
95%)  to  human  plasma  proteins.  Rat  studies  indicate  that  when  radiolabeled  simvastatin  was 
administered, simvastatin derived radioactivity crossed the blood-brain barrier. 
The major active metabolites of simvastatin present in human plasma are the β-hydroxyacid of 
simvastatin  and  its  6-hydroxy,  6-hydroxymethyl,  and  6-exomethylene  derivatives.  Peak  plasma 
concentrations of both active and total inhibitors were attained within 1.3 to 2.4 hours post-dose. 
Metabolism:  Simvastatin  is  catalysed  primarily  by  CYP3A4/5  with  a  minor  contribution  from 
CYP2C8. Glucuronidation of the dihydroxy side chain is a metabolic pathway for simvastatin. The 
major  metabolites  of  simvastatin  present  in  human  plasma  are  the  beta-hydroxyacid  and  four 
additional active metabolites. 
Excretion:  Following  an  oral  dose  of  radioactive  simvastatin  to  man,  13  %  of  the  radioactivity 
was  excreted  in  the  urine  and  60  %  in  the  faeces  within  96  hours.  Following  an  intravenous 
injection of the beta-hydroxyacid metabolite, its half-life averaged 1.9 hours. An average of only 
0.3 % of the IV dose was excreted in urine as inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions  
No non-clinical pharmacokinetic drug interactions studies were conducted with the proposed fixed 
combination  of  Cholib.  Based  on  the  available  data  for  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate,  and  the 
review of scientific literature the CHMP concluded that potentials for drug-drug interactions with 
the  fixed  combination  of  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  are  those  of  each  drug  considered 
separately. Fenofibrate is not a substrate for CYP 3A4 and no hepatic microsomal metabolism is 
involved. Fenofibric acid and its glucuronide conjugate are excreted mainly in urine. 
Of particular importance is the fact that simvastatin is a substrate of CYP 3A4. Therefore, potent 
inhibitors of CYP 3A4 increase the concentration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity and the 
subsequent  risks  of  skeletal  muscle  toxicity.  Concomitant  treatment  with  potent  CYP  3A4 
inhibitors  is  contraindicated.  Caution  should  be  exercised  when  combining  simvastatin  with 
certain  other  less  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitors.  Simvastatin  does  not  have  an  inhibitory  effect  on 
cytochrome P450 3A4. Therefore, simvastatin is not expected to affect plasma concentrations of 
substances metabolised via CYP 3A4.  
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
No  single-dose  toxicity  studies  and  no  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the 
fixed-combination  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin.  This  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  CHMP 
guideline  on  the  non-clinical  development  of  fixed  combinations  of  medicinal  products 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005),  which  states  that  safety  studies  in  animals  are  not  required 
for  fixed  combinations  with  sufficiently  documented  human  experience  of  their  individual  and 
combined use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 18/70 
 
  
  
Repeat dose toxicity 
No  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  fixed-combination  of  fenofibrate  and 
simvastatin.  Nevertheless,  an  update  of  results  is  provided  on  recently  conducted  repeat-dose 
toxicity  studies  with  fenofibric  acid,  the  active  metabolite of  fenofibrate, in  the  Sprague-Dawley 
rat and the beagle dog in order to support the clinical development of fenofibric acid choline salt. 
The  dose  levels  were  selected  to  compare  the  data  with  those  from  earlier  toxicity  studies 
submitted with the previous applications. These studies are summarised in table below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 19/70 
 
  
  
Summary of the Recent Repeat-Dose Toxicity Studies Conducted with Fenofibrate or Fenofibric Acid 
Species 
Strain 
Group 
Mode of 
Administration 
Test 
Material 
Rat 
Sprague-
Dawley 
15M + 
15F 
Oral (gavage) 
Sprague-
Dawley 
15M + 
15F 
Oral (gavage) 
Fenofibric 
acid choline 
salt 
Fenofibric 
acid calcium 
salt 
Doses 
mg/kg/d
ay (a) 
0, 30, 100, 
300 
0, 30, 100, 
300 
Sprague-
Dawley 
10M + 
10F 
Oral (dietary 
admixture) 
Fenofibric 
acid 
0, 10, 30, 
75, 150 
Sprague-
Dawley 
10M + 
10F 
Oral (dietary 
admixture) 
Fenofibrate 
0, 100, 
300 
Duration 
(wks) 
2 
2 
5 
5 
Sprague-
Dawley 
15M + 
15F 
Oral (gavage) 
Fenofibric 
acid choline 
salt 
0, 10, 30, 
100 
13 
Dog 
Beagle 
Beagle 
2M + 
2F 
2M + 
2F 
Oral (capsules) 
Fenofibric 
acid 
0, 30, 100, 
300 
Oral (capsules) 
Fenofibric 
acid, 
100 
Beagle 
6M + 
6F 
Oral (capsules) 
Fenofibric 
acid choline 
salt 
Fenofibric 
acid choline 
salt 
2 
2 
2 
0, 75, 150, 
225 
0, 25, 50, 
100 
13 
(a) Dose levels of fenofibric acid free acid or calcium or choline salt are given in mg free acid/kg 
The two pivotal 13-week studies in rat and dog with fenofibric acid choline salt were designed to 
achieve  plasma exposures  to  fenofibric  acid  matching  those  observed  in the  earlier  repeat-dose 
toxicity studies with fenofibrate. The results show that fenofibric acid exposures in both 13-week 
studies are equal to or higher than those described after chronic dosing with fenofibrate to rats 
(78-week chronic study) and dogs (52-week chronic study). 
Plasma Exposure to Fenofibric Acid in Rat and Dog Repeat-Dose Toxicity Studies Conducted with Fenofibrate 
or Fenofibric Acid Choline Salt, and Comparison with Human data 
Species and Duration 
Rat   
(78-week ; diet) 
Dosing with Fenofibrate 
Dose for PK (mg/kg) 
20a 
80a 
320a 
Cmax  
(µg/mL) 
33.2 
161.2 
394.0 
AUC 
(µg.h/mL) 
384 
2647 
7388 
Dog   
25 
12.7 – 16.8 
88 – 136 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 20/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(52-week ; capsules) 
100 
400 
40.6 – 41.3 
77.6 – 97.4 
Human (single dose) 
(200 mg/70 kg ≈ 2.9) 
8.6 
Dosing with Fenofibric Acid 
Species and Duration 
Rat  
(13-week ; gavage) 
Dog 
(13-week ;capsules) 
Dose for PK (mg acid/kg) 
10 
30 
100 
25 
50 
100 
Cmax  
(µg/mL) 
40.9 –45.9 
183 – 188 
609 – 679 
53.1 – 64.1 
115 – 144 
225 – 245 
Human (repeat dose) 
 (135 mg acid/70 kg ≈1.9) 
12.1 
(a)PK data available only after single dosing from a different study 
360 – 427 
1167 – 1470 
147 
AUC 
(µg.h/mL) 
527 – 530 
2586 – 3209 
12021 - 12194 
222 – 272 
833 – 1098 
1887 – 2565 
183 
In the rat studies, no test-article related mortalities were observed in the two-week gavage and 
the five-week diet studies. In the 13-week gavage study one high dose male was found dead on 
day  83,  due  to  unknown  reasons.  Only  at  the  high  dose  levels  body  weight  gain  and  food 
consumption  were  reduced  relative  to  control  animals,  which  indicates  good  tolerability  of 
fenofibric  acid  and  fenofibrate.  In  the  two-week  studies  at  100  and  300 mg  acid/kg/day  the 
animals  showed  a  slight  decrease  in  the  red  blood  cell  parameters  and  abnormal  red  blood  cell 
morphology.  These  results  suggested  an  accelerated  removal  of  red  blood  cells  with  membrane 
abnormalities  and  a  corresponding  physiologically  appropriate  increase  in  erythropoiesis. 
Changes  in  the  liver  were  noted  in  rats  from  all  studies,  with  increases  in  liver  enzyme  values 
more  pronounced  in  males  than  in  females.  Heart  lesions  of  focal  loss  and  degeneration  of 
myofibers and infiltration of mononuclear inflammatory cells were found in male rats dosed with 
fenofibric  acid  at  30  and  100 mg  acid/kg/day.  Higher  absolute  and/or  relative  heart  weights  in 
rats  were  also  observed.  Although  previous  studies  of  fenofibrate  in  rats  did  not  reveal  cardiac 
findings,  the  direct  head-to-head  comparison  of  fenofibrate  and  fenofibric  acid  in  the  five-week 
diet studies showed these lesions in both studies.  Male rats seem to be more sensitive towards 
this toxicity than females and the lesions occurred at approximately 22-fold the human exposure. 
Degeneration  in  muscles  from  the  caudal  thigh  characterised  by  scattered  myofibres  infiltrated 
with phagocytic cells was observed at ≥ 100 mg acid/kg/day in the two-week gavage studies, at 
≥ 75 mg  acid/kg/day  in  the  five-week  dietary  study  with  fenofibric  acid  and  300 mg/kg/day  in 
the five-week dietary study with fenofibrate, and at 100 mg acid/kg/day in the 13-week gavage 
study.  The  lesions  occurred  primarily  in  the  soleus  muscle  at  about  60-80  fold  the  human 
exposure.  It  was  also  demonstrated  that  skeletal  muscle  degeneration  occurred  in  muscles 
known to have the greatest density of myofibres that stained positive to slow myosin, suggesting 
that slow oxidative myofibres were selectively affected. 
In the 13-week study with dogs, one male dog in the 100 mg acid/kg/day dosage group (about 
13-fold  the  clinical  exposure)  was  euthanized  on  day 39  due  to  severe  weight  loss  (~30%). 
Treatment-related clinical observations were limited to sporadic emesis, and reduced mean body 
weights  in  dogs  given  50  and  100 mg  acid/kg/day  relative  to  control  dogs.  A  dose-dependent 
decrease in the red blood cell mass, an increased activated partial thromboplastin time and slight 
increases  in  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  and  aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST)  activities 
were seen in the 50 and 100 mg acid/kg/day groups; none of these changes were evident at the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 21/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
end  of  the  6-week  drug-free  period.  Minimal  single-cell  necrosis  of  liver  was  accompanied  by 
minimal  to  mild  mixed  inflammatory  cell  infiltrates  at  50  and  100 mg  acid/kg/day.  The  findings 
fully  reversed  during  the  six-week  drug-free  period.  Ulcerations,  erosions  and  mucosal  atrophy 
were  seen  in  the  high  dose  groups  of  the  2-week  studies  (225  or  300 mg  acid/kg/day).  In  the 
13-week  study  moderately  decreased  mean  ovary  weights  that  correlated  microscopically  with 
immaturity  were  seen  in  all  females  from  25 mg  acid/kg/day  onwards.  Testicular  tubular 
vacuolation  was  seen  in  the  2-week  and  the  13-week  studies  where  young  dogs  were 
administered fenofibric acid free acid or choline salt. By 13 weeks of dosing, the vacuolation was 
associated with hypo-spermatogenesis from the low dose onwards (25 mg acid/kg/day, <1.5-fold 
the  human  exposure).  None  of  these  changes  was  noted  in  animals  allowed the  supplementary 
six-week drug-free period. 
Genotoxicity 
No  genotoxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  fixed  combination  of  Cholib  because  the 
combination of the two active substances into a single tablet has not been associated with new 
impurities  or  degradation  products  resulting  from  chemical  or  physico-chemical  interactions 
between fenofibrate and simvastatin.  
Based on literature data, fenofibrate was not genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays, 
including  the  Ames  reverse  mutation  test,  gene  mutations  in  S.  cerevisiae or mouse  lymphoma 
assay, chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchange in  Chinese hamster ovary cells, 
induction  of  unscheduled  DNA  synthesis  in  primary  rat  hepatocytes,  as  well  as  metaphase 
analysis  of  bone  marrow  from  fenofibrate  gavaged  SD  rats  or  increase  in  DNA  synthesis  in  the 
testis  of  CD-1  mice  given  fenofibrate.  In  case  of  simvastatin,  no  evidence  of  mutagenicity  was 
observed  in  a  microbial  mutagenicity  Ames  test  with  or  without  rat  or  mouse  liver  metabolic 
activation.  In  addition,  no  evidence  of  damage  to  genetic  material  was  noted  in  an  in  vitro 
alkaline elution assay using rat hepatocytes, a V-79 mammalian cell forward mutation study, an 
in vitro chromosome aberration study in CHO cells, or an in vivo chromosomal aberration assay 
in mouse bone marrow. 
Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  fixed  combination  of  Cholib.  As  there  is  no 
evidence to suggest a greater carcinogenicity risk when fibrates and statins are co-administered 
this approach is acceptable to the CHMP.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
No  new  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  have  been  initiated  with  the  fixed-
combination.  The  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  (fertility  and  early  embryonic, 
embryofetal  and  pre-  and  post  natal  development  potentials)  of  the  two  substances  are  well 
known and no additional risks are expected during co-administration. As described in section on 
Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies,  in  young  dogs  (9-12  months  at  necropsy),  there  were  effects  on 
testes  and  ovaries  at  all  the  doses  tested,  but  the  clinical  significance  of  these  findings  is  not 
known.  Nevertheless,  adequate  information  on  these  non-clinical  data  has  been  included  in  the 
SmPC  of  Cholib.  Furthermore,  simvastatin  is  currently  contraindicated  during  pregnancy  and 
lactation,  based  mainly  on  theoretical  effects  on  the  concepts  due  to  the  impairment  of  the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 22/70 
 
  
  
biosynthesis  of  cholesterol.  Consequently,  Cholib  is  also  contraindicated  during  pregnancy  and 
lactation. 
Toxicokinetic data 
No  specific  toxicokinetic  studies  were  conducted  with  Cholib.  Supplementary  information  on 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  fenofibric  acid  after  repeated  oral  administration  were  obtained 
from  the  toxicokinetic  measurements  in  recent  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs  as 
discussed in section on Repeat dose toxicity studies. 
Local Tolerance  
No  non-clinical  local  tolerance  studies  were  performed  with  the  fixed  combination,  due  to  the 
route of application and the existing clinical experience. No specific lesions of the stomach were 
found in the recent repeat toxicity studies conducted with fenofibric acid or fenofibrate in rats. In 
dogs,  ulcerations,  erosions  and  mucosal  atrophy  were  seen  in  the  high  dose  groups  of  the  2-
week studies (225 or 300 mg acid/kg/day) and are reflected in the SmPC of Cholib.  
Other toxicity studies 
Fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  are  well-established  use  substances  when  used  separately.  No 
concerns  regarding  their  potential  immunotoxicity,  antigenicity,  or  drug  dependence  have  been 
identified during their clinical use in monotherapy or as a free combination. Therefore, no other 
specific  toxicity  studies  were  considered  with  the  fixed  combination.  Since  fenofibrate  is 
contraindicated  in  patients  with  known  photo-allergic  or  photo-toxic  reactions  to  fenofibrate  or 
ketoprofen, the SmPC of Cholib is also contraindicated in this patient group. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Since Cholib is intended for a substitution of two already approved products, this will not lead to 
an increased exposure to the environment. The justification of the lack of ERA is thus acceptable 
to the CHMP. Fenofibrate and simvastatin are already used in existing marketed products and no 
significant  increase  in  environmental  exposure  is  anticipated.  Therefore  the  fixed  dose 
combination  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  is  not  expected  to  pose  any  additional  risk  to  the 
environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  profiles  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  are  well  documented  and  literature 
references  have  been  provided  to  address  the  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicology  of 
these  substances.  No  new  pharmacodynamic,  safety  pharmacology  or 
pharmacokinetic  studies  were  conducted,  which  is  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  Guideline  on 
the 
non-clinical 
development 
of 
fixed 
combinations 
of  medicinal 
products 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005).  Repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  were  recently  conducted  with 
fenofibric acid in dogs and rats and these provide updated information on its toxicological profile, 
which is adequately reflected in the SmPC of Cholib. Furthermore, as concluded by the CHMP, the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 23/70 
 
  
  
fixed dose combination of fenofibrate and simvastatin is not expected to pose any additional risk 
to the environment. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP considers the non-clinical data provided in support of the marketing authorisation of 
Cholib sufficient and there are no measures to be addressed in the post-authorisation phase. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Both,  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  are  known  lipid  modifying  agents  and  have  been  used  for  a 
number  of  years  in  clinical  practise  in  the EU  and  worldwide.  The  clinical  programme  of  a  fixed 
combination of fenofibrate 145 mg and simvastatin 20/40 mg is based on: 
− 
Four  phase  3  clinical  studies  evaluating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  co-administration  of 
fenofibrate  145  mg  and  simvastatin  20  and  40  mg  in  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidemia 
remaining hypertriglyceridemic and hypercholesterolemic after statin monotherapy. 
−  Two  pivotal  bioequivalence  studies  to  bridge  clinical  results  obtained  with  the  co-
administration  of  the two separate  products  -  and  two  fixed  combination  tablets  fenofibrate 
145 mg/simvastatin 20 mg and fenofibrate 145 mg/simvastatin 40 mg. 
−  Supportive  documentation  coming  from  published  clinical  studies  and  evaluation  of  safety 
databases of these two well established-use lipid-modifying agents. 
GCP 
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  applicant.  The 
applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
List of bioavailability studies  
Studies 
Comparators  No of FDCs 
Subjects 
KLF0242780-01  05  01 
KH 
KLF0242780-01  05  02 
KH 
KLF0242780-01  05  03 
KH 
compared 
2 FDCs 
Male HVs  ( n=17) 
145 mg/ 40 
mg (FF/SV) 
One FDC 
Male HVs ( n=23) 
Three FDCs 
Male HVs ( n=20 ) 
KLF0242780-01  07  01 
KH 
145  mg/  20 
mg (FF/SV) 
Two FDCs 
Male HVs ( n=23) 
List of Bioequivalence studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 24/70 
 
  
  
 
 
Studies 
Comparators 
Subjects 
Design 
Analytes  
Parameters 
Recruited/ 
Completed 
S285.01.001 
S285.01.002 
FDC; F-145/S-20 
Vs F-145 + S-20 
FDC; F-145/S-40 
Vs  F145 +S40 
150/ 145 
Male HVs 
148/ 144 
Male HVs 
Replicate,  4 
period, 2 seq 
Fenofibric  acid, 
Simvastatin  & 
Simvastatin 
Acid 
Cmax,  AUCt, 
AUCi  
List of Interaction studies 
Studies 
Comparators 
Subjects 
Design 
Analytes  
Parameters 
Recruited/ 
Completed 
KLF178T 03 02 KH  S 40 
Vs F145+ S40 
12 Male HVs  Open,  2  way, 
X-
randomised, 
over,  
Fenofibric acid, 
Simvastatin  & 
Simva Acid 
Cmax,  AUCt, 
AUCi  
Clinical Efficacy/ Safety studies 
Study ID 
of 
No. 
study 
centres  
Study 
Posology 
LF0242780-
01 05 01 
N=99  
EU wide 
LF0242780-
01 05 02 
LF0242780-
01 05 03 
N=63 
EU/ 
Aust/ NZ 
N=54; 
EU & 
Ukraine 
LF0242780-
01 05 04 
N=58; 
EU, 
Russia 
and 
South 
Africa 
F145/S 20  
then 40   
vs  
S 40 
F145/S40   
Vs  
S40 
F145 / S20 
then 40 
Vs 
Atorv 10 & 
20 
F145/ S20 
& 40  
Vs  
Prava 40 
Subjects 
by 
entered/ 
completed. 
arm 
FS 526/ 458 
S  524/481 
Duration 
Gender 
Diagnosis 
M/F 
Mean Age 
705M / 345 
F  
56.1 yrs 
Incl. 
criteria 
CHD/ CHD 
risk Euiv; 
NCEPIII 
• 6Wk run in 
• 24 Wk DB 
• 28 Wk Ext 
FS 225/215 
S 224/205 
FS 276/246 
A 272/246 
• 6wk run-in 
• 24wk DB 
• 6Wk run in 
• 24 Wk DB 
• 28 Wk Ext 
355 M /94F 
55.9 yrs.  
374M / 174F 
55.1 Yrs 
CHD/ CHD 
risk Euiv; 
NCEPIII 
CHD/ CHD 
risk Euiv; 
NCEPIII 
FS 210/186 
Vs 
Pr 210/95 
• 6Wk run in 
• 24 Wk DB 
• 28 Wk Ext 
347M / 73F 
54.5 Yrs 
CHD/ CHD 
risk Euiv; 
NCEPIII 
Primary 
Endpoint 
•  Sup for TG 
and HDL-C  
over S40  
•  NI for LDL-C 
(4%) margin 
at 12 wks 
•  Superiority 
over S40 at 12 
wks 
•  Sup for TG 
and HDL-C 
over A10; 
•  NI vs A10 for 
LDL-C at 12 
weeks 
•  Sup for TG 
and HDL-C  
over P40  
•  NI for LDL-C 
(4%) margin 
at 12 wks 
Sup= Superiority; NI = Non-inferiority; CHD= Coronary heart disease; TG- triglycerides; HDL-C= high 
density lipoprotein cholesterol 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 25/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption, Distribution, Elimination 
Both  components  of  the  fixed  combination  have  been  in  clinical  use  for  several  years  and  their 
pharmacokinetic  (PK)  properties  were  determined  at  the  time  of  their  development.  No  specific 
bioavailability studies have been considered for the development of the fixed combination.  
Two  pivotal  studies  (S285.1.001  and  S285.1.002)  were  performed  to  test  the  bioequivalence 
between fixed combination fenofibrate/simvastatin tablets and the co-administration of individual 
tablets.  Four  bioavailability  studies  (KLF0242780-01  05  01  KH,  KLF0242780-01  05  02  KH, 
KLF0242780-01 05 03 KH, and KLF0242780-01 07 01 KH) were conducted to aid in the selection 
of the final dosage forms to be tested in the pivotal bioequivalence studies.  Phase 3 clinical trials 
were  performed  with  the  co-administration  of  individual  tablets  instead  of  fixed-combination 
tablets  containing  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin.  Both,  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  are 
Biopharmaceutics  Classification  System  (BSC)-class  II,  defined  as  high  permeability  and  low 
solubility. A summary of the Absorption, distribution, elimination data of each mono-component 
is provided below. 
Fenofibrate 
Maximum  plasma  concentrations  (Cmax)  occur  within  2  to  4  hours  after  oral  administration. 
Plasma  concentrations  are  stable  during  continuous  treatment.  Contrary  to  previous  fenofibrate 
formulations,  the  maximum  plasma  concentration  and  overall  exposure  of  the  nanoparticules 
formulation is independent from food intake. Fenofibric acid is highly protein bound (>99%) and 
kinetic  studies  following  the  administration  of  a  single  dose  and  continuous  treatment  have 
demonstrated that the drug does not accumulate. Fenofibrate is not a substrate for CYP 3A4 and 
the  drug  is  excreted  mainly  in  the  urine  mainly  in  the  form  of  fenofibric  acid or  its  glucuronide 
conjugate. Fenofibric acid is not eliminated by haemodialysis and the plasma elimination half-life 
of fenofibric acid is approximately 20 hours. 
Simvastatin 
Simvastatin is an inactive lactone which is readily hydrolysed in vivo to the corresponding beta-
hydroxyacid, a potent inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase. Hydrolysis takes place mainly in the liver; 
the  rate  of  hydrolysis  in  human  plasma  is  slow.  Simvastatin  is  well  absorbed  and  undergoes 
extensive  hepatic  first-pass  extraction.  The  availability  of  the  beta-hydroxyacid  to  the  systemic 
circulation  following  an  oral  dose  of  simvastatin  was  found  to  be  less  than  5%  of  the  dose. 
Maximum  plasma  concentration  of  active  inhibitors  is  reached  approximately  1-2  hours  after 
administration  of  simvastatin.  Concomitant  food  intake  does  not  affect  the  absorption. 
Simvastatin  is  highly  protein  bound  (>95%)  and  does  not  accumulate  on  repeated  dosing. 
Following an oral dose of radioactive simvastatin to man, 13% of the radioactivity was excreted 
in the urine and 60% in the faeces within 96 hours. Following an intravenous (IV) injection of the 
beta-hydroxyacid metabolite, its half-life averaged 1.9 hours. 
Due  to  the  extent  of  the  clinical  knowledge  and  experience  with  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin 
either in monotherapy or in co-administration at the time of development, no additional risk was 
expected from the use of the fixed combination and it was therefore considered unnecessary to 
perform pharmacokinetic studies examining the influence of intrinsic factors on exposure with the 
fixed combination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 26/70 
 
  
  
 
Bioequivalence studies 
In  order  to  bridge  the  clinical  studies  that  were  conducted  with  the  co-administration  of 
fenofibrate  (145mg)  and  simvastatin  (20mg  or  40mg)  to  the  proposed  fixed  dose  combination, 
the  applicant  conducted  two  bioequivalence  studies:  one  study  with  the  20  mg  simvastatin 
(S285.1.001) and the other with the 40 mg simvastatin (S285.01.002). The dose of fenofibrate 
was  145mg.  Both  studies  used  the  open  label,  randomised,  replicate,  4  period,  2  sequence 
design  with  10  day  washout  period  between  studies.  The  sample  size  was  adequate  for  both 
studies (n=150 and n=148 respectively) with 143 and 140 subjects completing all 4 sequences. 
The main results of these studies are presented in the table below.  
Results of bioequivalence studies 
Study 
Parameter 
Fenofibric acid 
AUC t 
C max 
Simvastatin 
AUC t 
C max 
Simvastatin acid 
AUC t 
C max 
S285.1.001 
S285.1.002 
Point Est 
90% CI 
Point Est 
90% CI 
0.998 
0.970 
1.002 
0.692 
1.165 
1.081 
0.987-1.010 
0.954- 0.987 
0.959 – 1.048 
0.659 – 0.727 
1.115 – 1.216 
1.029 – 1.134 
1.020 
1.032 
0.892 
0.939 
1.082 
1.121 
1.008 – 1.032 
1.012 – 1.051 
0.858 – 0.927 
0.897 – 0.983 
1.045– 1.120 
1.077– 1.166 
The  CHMP  raised  questions  about  the  appropriateness  of  calculations  using  below  limit  of 
quantitation (BLQ) and exclusion of data. The applicant provided re-evaluated PK parameters and 
statistical  analysis  not  replacing  BLQ  with  the  half  value  of  lower  limit  of  quantitation  (LLOQ). 
Bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  for  simvastatin  and  for  simvastatin  acid  also  after 
recalculation.  No  recalculation  was  needed  for  fenofibric  acid  since  no  samples  between  two 
measurable  samples  were  BLQ.  With  regard  to  number  of  subjects  excluded  from  the  PK 
analysis,  it  was  shown  that  the  number  of  subjects  excluded  due  to  >50%  of  samples  missing 
was  the  same  for  Cmax  and  AUCt.  The  number  of  subjects  excluded  varied  for  AUCinf  since  no 
AUCinf was calculated when R2 was <0.8 or area extrapolated was more than 20%.  
In the S285.1.002 study the 145/40 mg fixed combination tablet fulfilled the acceptance criteria 
for bioequivalence; all parameters had 90%CI between 0.80-1.25 as per the standards outlined 
in the CHMP bioequivalence guideline (CHMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1).  
Based  on  the  statistical  analysis  and  results,  the  applicant  stated  that  treatment  A  (SLV285 
fenofibrate  145  mg,  simvastatin  20  mg  combination  tablet)  was  found  to  be  bioequivalent  to 
treatment  B  (fenofibrate  145  mg  tablet  +  simvastatin  20  mg  tablet)  also  in  Study  285.1.001. 
However, Cmax of simvastatin (geometric least squares mean ratio of 0.692 and 90%CI of 0.659 
to  0.727)  was  outside  the  acceptance  range  of  [0.75-1.33].  The  applicant  claimed  that  the 
acceptance  range  for  Cmax  was  widened  because  the  within-subject  variability  for  Cmax  of  the 
reference compound in the study was >30%. Since the 90% CI also fails to meet these widened 
acceptance  criteria,  whether  or  not  it  is  agreed  that  use  of  widened  criteria  is  appropriate 
becomes a moot point. In this study,  as well as in the bioavailability 07-01 KH study, the fixed 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 27/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose formulation was not shown to be bioequivalent with the coadministered combination as per 
the standards outlined in the CHMP bioequivalence guideline (CHMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1).   
Overall,  the  provided  data  aim  to  establish  bioequivalence  such  that  similar  efficacy  and  safety 
between the free combination of the two agents and the fixed dose combination is expected. The 
usual standards are met for the high strength of the combination, but not for the low strength.  
The  CHMP  raised  this  issue  as  a  major  objection.  The  applicant  stated  that  only  Cmax  for 
simvastatin  (the  ‘parent’  compound)  was  outside  of  the  bioequivalence  acceptance  limits  and 
only  in  one  study  (S285-01-001)  but  AUC  for  the  lower  strength  and  all  parameters  for  the 
higher strength in study S285-01-002 were within the acceptance criteria of 80-125%.  There is 
also an aspect of ‘multiple testing’ here such that one or multiple tests may fail by chance alone, 
even where products are truly bioequivalent.  It is also argued that Cmax of the parent compound 
has minimal clinical importance if total exposure is shown to be equivalent, in particular in light 
of the AUC and Cmax results on the main active metabolite, which meet the standard criteria. In 
the  context  of  this  particular  application,  and  in  light  of  the  clinical  data  provided,  this  single 
point  estimate  and  confidence  interval  does  not  give  sufficient  grounds  for  objection  and  the 
lower dose strength can be accepted. 
Food effect 
The  applicant  presented  arguments  that  the  current  formulation  of  the  fixed  combination  of 
fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  does  not  exhibit  a  food  effect.  A  study  report  for  study  KLF  K178P 
0206  KH  0302  examining  the  potential  food  effect  was  presented.  The  PK  results  for  fenofibric 
acid  with  arithmetic  means  (SD)  and  associated  coefficient  of  variation  (CV)  are  summarised 
below. 
Comparison high fat fed (Reg A) versus fasting (Reg C) [study K LF K178P 0206 KH 0302] 
HFF versus Fasting  
Parameter n = 
44 (PKS)  
Geometric Mean HFF 
(Regimen A)  
Geometric Mean 
Fasting (Regimen C)  
Point Estimate  
90% CI 
AUC 
AUCt 
Cmax 
LFF versus Fasting  
AUC 
AUCt 
Cmax 
124.8 
123.0 
7.82 
119.8 
118.1 
7.84 
118.5 
116.5 
7.77 
118.5 
116.5 
7.77 
1.052 
1.054 
1.007 
1.012 
1.013 
1.009 
1.018 – 1.088 
1.020 – 1.090 
0.963 – 1.054 
0.978 – 1.046 
0.981 – 1.047 
0.964 – 1.055 
PKS: pharmacokinetic sample, HFF: high fat fed, LFF: low fat fed 
The  results  of  the  study  alleviate  the  concerns  about  the  food  effect  on  the  micronised 
formulation  of  fenofibrate  and  thus,  it  is  concluded  that  food  has  negligible  influence  on  the 
145mg  fenofibrate  tablet.  It  is  assumed  that  there  is  no  food  effect  on  the  fixed  combination 
product. Adequate wording has been included in the SmPC of Cholib. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 28/70 
 
  
  
 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality,  time  dependency  and  other  PK  characteristics  are  considered  adequately 
documented for the mono-components and no other specific studies were considered necessary. 
Special populations 
Within  the  development  programme,  certain  special  subpopulations  were  studied  and  these 
included subjects with renal impairment, subjects older than 65 years, and women. Although the 
studies were not specifically designed to investigate these subgroups, the distribution of patients 
allowed for such subgroup analysis. In the group with renal insufficiency (n=204), comparison of 
subsets  based  on  their  eGFR  (30-59ml/min/1.73m2  or  ≥ 60  mL/min/1.73m²)  showed  that  the 
incremental reduction of TG and increase of HDL were both higher for the FDC when compared to 
simvastatin  alone.  There  were  no  subjects  with  eGFR  <30ms  (an  exclusion  criterion)  and 
therefore  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn.  There  was  a  consistent  gender  effect  on  the  treatment, 
although  these  data  were generated  within  the  main  pivotal  studies  and  not in  specific  gender-
based  studies.  It  appears  that  the  fixed  dose  combination  has  less  effect  in  males,  a  high  risk 
group despite the changes in TG and HDL-C, however, the clinical implications are not considered 
to be significant.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Results of two interaction studies were originally provided by the applicant: a primary interaction 
study  conducted  within  the  development  programme  and  a  published  study  on  interaction 
between simvastatin and fenofibrate. Both studies were conducted in approximately 12 subjects 
and  were  of  a  conventional  with  a  two  period,  two  treatment  crossover  comparison  of  the 
combination  (simvastatin+fenofibrate)  to  the  simvastatin  alone  arm.  In  Study  KLF178T  03  02 
KH,  12  healthy  male  subjects  aged  20  to  39  years  (mean:  29.2  ±  6.9years)  received  two 
treatments:  treatment  A  was  a  160  mg  fenofibrate  tablet  once  daily  for  10  days  and  a  40  mg 
simvastatin tablet as a single dose simultaneously with the last dose of fenofibrate; treatment B 
was  a  40  mg  simvastatin  tablet  as  a  single  dose.  To  assess  the  effect  of  fenofibrate  on 
simvastatin  PK,  simvastatin  and  simvastatin  acid,  log-transformed  AUC,  AUC0-t,  and  Cmax  were 
compared between day 11 of treatment A and day 1 of treatment B using an analysis of variance 
(ANOVA)  followed  by  the  calculation  of  the  90%  confidence  interval  (CI)  for  the  ratios  of  the 
geometric least-squares means. Decrease in simvastatin acid exposure (-42%) was observed for 
AUC  upon  co-administration  with  fenofibrate.  No  effect  was  observed  on  Cmax,  as  confirmed  by 
the  90%  CI  [0.794  to  1.260]  which  was  close  to  the  required  limits,  with  a  point  estimate  of 
1.000. 
The clinical study published by Bergman et al (J Clin Pharmacol, 2004; 44:1054-62) investigated 
the  interaction  between  80mg  simvastatin  and  160mg  of  micronised  fenofibrate  in  a  phase  I 
study  in  2004  in  12  subjects.  In  all  25  subjects  were  enrolled  and  PK  data  from  12  who 
completed  the  study  were  analysed  and  used  for  comparison.  Of  note,  the  first  12  subjects 
enrolled were discontinued due to errors in pharmacokinetic sample processing. A new cohort of 
13 subjects was enrolled, which included 1 replacement subject, and 12 completed. Simvastatin 
acid AUC0-24h was 36% lower when simvastatin was administered with fenofibrate compared with 
simvastatin alone.  
The  applicant  claims  that  the  interaction  noted  has  no  clinical  relevance.  The  arguments 
presented include that as simvastatin acid is only one component that contributes approximately 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 29/70 
 
  
  
25%  of  all  active  HMG-CoA  reductase  inhibitors  in  plasma,  the  modest  decrease  in  simvastatin 
acid AUC0-24h was consistent with the small decrease in active HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor AUC0-
24h.  However,  this  finding  is  from  a  single  study  and  lacks  detail  on  how  the  active  and  total 
HMG-CoA  inhibitory  activity  was  evaluated.  Indeed,  both  interaction  studies  are  small  and 
affected by technical issues. The KLF178T-03-02-KH study only analysed the simvastatin hydroxy 
acid and no other metabolite or inhibitor activity while the Bergman study estimated the overall 
inhibitor activity but failed to assay other specific HMG-Co-A inhibitors. If the interaction is seen 
with  FDC/co-administration  and  also  when  the  two  active  substances  are  separated  by  a  time 
profile,  this  could  provide  reassurance  that  the  clinical  relevance  of  this  interaction  was  small 
since  there  exist  considerable  amounts  of  clinical  data  with  the  free  association  where  efficacy 
was demonstrated in spite of this interaction. This is addressed in M13-953 below.  
Clinical study M13—953 
The additionally conducted study M13—953 in healthy volunteers which evaluates the interaction 
further  and  also  if  any  interactions  occur  during  staggered  administration.  The  design  of  the 
study and protocol are acceptable apart from the value to use lipid profiles as PD effect after 7 
days of treatment in each period.  
Eighty-five  healthy  volunteers  (54  males  and  31  females)  were  randomized,  79  completed  the 
three  treatment  periods  and  81  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The 
pharmacokinetic  data  on  Day  1  after  single  dose  of  simvastatin  alone  or  simvastatin  plus 
fenofibrate  did  not  show  significant  interaction  in  terms  of  exposure.  The  design  and  results  at 
steady state are summarised in tables below for the parent drug simvastatin and the metabolite 
simvastatin acid. The steady state of fenofibric acid was reached since its trough concentrations 
did not change between the last three days of administration. 
Dosing schedule of clinical study M13-953 
The overview of results from clinical study M13—953 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 30/70 
 
  
  
 
 
While  the  applicant  has  taken  comparison  of  B/C  rather  than  A  vs  B  or  A  vs  C  (as  per  table 
above)  as  the  primary  comparison,  in  order to evaluate  the  actual  effect  of the  interaction,  the 
primary  comparisons  should  have  been  with  simvastatin  monotherapy  (A).  The  claim  that 
interaction is marginally (but not statistically) different in favour of FDC (21% vs 29% reduction 
in simvastatin acid AUC) could only be sustained if the mechanism of interaction was explained.  
It is claimed that there is no induction of enzyme pathways or transporters but this is followed by 
a statement that the level of interaction is not expected to increase. This is a strong assumption 
given  the  absence  of  an  understanding  of  the  mechanisms  involved.  Indeed,  the  applicant, 
having  reviewed  the  literature,  was  unable  to  find  specific  indicators  of  this  interaction  or  an 
explanation for the finding in the two studies in the mechanistic context. The co-administration of 
fenofibrate and simvastatin has led to a reduction of simvastatin acid exposure without changing 
simvastatin  exposure.  This  suggests  that  fenofibrate  interferes  with  biotransformation  of 
simvastatin and/or simvastatin acid. However, this is not supported by in vitro data; in particular 
the biotransformation of simvastatin acid by human hepatocytes is not modified by co-incubation 
with fenofibrate. As discussed above, extensive literature search as well as an additional in vitro 
plasma protein displacement study did not reveal any putative cause of the observed interaction. 
Thus,  based  on  these  data,  a  firm  conclusion  on  what  the  direct  cause  of  the  AUC  reduction  in 
simvastatin  acid  when  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  are  co-administered  cannot  be  reached  and 
remains to be explored.  
The key conclusions from this study are that it confirms the pharmacokinetic interaction between 
the  two  components  (reduction  in  exposure  to  simvastatin  acid  in  the  presence  of  fenofibrate) 
but  that  the  reduction  appears  to  be  of  comparable  magnitude  regardless  of  whether  the 
components are administered together (B) or separated by 12 hours (C).  Of course, this finding 
is based on this single study only and with some uncertainty around the estimated effect sizes. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
Due  to  the  extent  of  the  clinical  knowledge  and  experience  either  in  monotherapy  or  in  co-
administration  at  the  time  of  development  it  was  considered  unnecessary  to  perform  studies 
examining pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials with the fixed combination. Therefore no 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 31/70 
 
  
  
 
such  studies  related  to  hepatic  metabolism,  drug  interaction  or  plasma  protein  binding  are 
presented. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The  lipid  modifying  effects  of  fenofibrate  (a  fibric  acid  derivative)  in  humans  are  mediated  via 
activation  of  PPARα.  Through  activation  of  PPARα,  fenofibrate  increases  the  lipolysis  and 
elimination  of  atherogenic  TG-rich  particles  from  plasma  by  activating  lipoprotein  lipase  and 
reducing production of apo CIII. Activation of PPARα also induces an increase in the synthesis of 
apo AI and apo AII.   
Simvastatin,  an  inactive  lactone  is  hydrolysed  in  the  liver  to  the  corresponding  active  beta-
hydroxyacid  form,  which  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  HMG-CoA  reductase.  Simvastatin  has  been 
shown to reduce both normal and elevated LDL-C concentrations. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  individual  pharmacodynamic  profiles  for  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  are  well  known,  and 
information on the pharmacodynamic effects of fenofibrate and simvastatin are described in the 
literature. The target pharmacodynamic properties of the combination are based on a beneficial 
addition of the properties of fenofibrate and simvastatin as lipid lowering agents. Considering the 
extent of clinical knowledge and experience to date, the properties of the individual compounds 
are not expected to be different from those observed when both components are given together 
as  a  free  combination.  As  a  consequence,  no  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  conducted 
with  the  fixed-combinations  of  fenofibrate/simvastatin  145/20  mg  and  fenofibrate/simvastatin 
145/40 mg. 
As  both  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  have  previously  demonstrated  reduction  of  LDL-C,  it  is 
expected that the combination will produce additive effects on LDL-C in the clinical trials. This is 
further discussed in the section on Clinical efficacy.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Simvastatin  and 
fenofibrate  are  established 
lipid-lowering  monotherapies  and 
their 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  properties  are  well  known.  Due  to  the  extent  of  the 
clinical  knowledge  and  experience  either  in  monotherapy  or  in  co-administration  at  the  time  of 
development  it  was  considered  unnecessary  to  perform  new  studies  examining  primary 
pharmacokinetics  or  pharmacodynamics  using  human  biomaterials.  Therefore  no  such  studies 
related to hepatic metabolism, drug interaction or plasma protein binding are presented. Of the 
four  bioavailability  studies,  the  applicant  has  selected  two  fixed  dose  combinations  to  be  taken 
forward  for  further  clinical  development.  Bioequivalence  was  achieved  for  the  40  mg  strength, 
but  full  bioequivalence  was  not  achieved  for  the  20  mg  strength  for  the  Cmax  of  the  parent 
compound.  For  the  lower  strength,  only  one  of  multiple  tests  fails  to  meet  the  bioequivalence 
criteria.    It  is  also  argued  that  Cmax  of  the  parent  compound  has  minimal  clinical  importance  if 
total exposure is shown to be equivalent, in particular in light of the AUC and C max results on the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 32/70 
 
  
  
main  active  metabolite,  which  meet  the  standard  criteria.  In  the  context  of  this  particular 
application,  and  in  light  of  the  clinical  data  provided,  this  single  point  estimate  and  confidence 
interval  does  not  give  sufficient  grounds  for  objection  and  the  lower  dose  strength  can  be 
accepted. 
The potential food effect seen with other medicinal products containing fenofibrate was avoided 
for  Cholib  due  to  the  use  of  micronised  fenofibrate  and  nanocrystal  technology  for  the 
formulation,  so  that  the  fenofibrate  absorption  is  enhanced.  Thus,  the  maximum  plasma 
concentration and overall exposure of this formulation is independent from food intake. A food-
effect  study  involving  administration  of  this  formulation  of  fenofibrate  145mg  tablets to  healthy 
male  and  female  subjects  under  fasting  conditions  and  with  a  high  fat  meal  indicated  that 
exposure  (AUC  and  Cmax)  to  fenofibric  acid  is  not  affected  by  food.  Therefore  Cholib  may  be 
taken without regard to meals. This is adequately reflected in the SmPC. 
Pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  were  investigated  which  show 
that  there  is  an  appreciable  level  of  interaction  resulting in  reduction  of  the  AUC  of  simvastatin 
acid  when  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  are  administered  together  either  after  a  single  dose  of 
simvastatin or in steady state. This was investigated in two studies and the clinical significance of 
the  interaction  has  to  be considered.   In  the  first,  smaller  study,  the  magnitude  of  reduction  of 
AUC was estimated to be 42% (study K LF178T 03 02 KH) after single dose and 36% in steady 
state  (Bergman  et  al  study,  2004).  The  M13-953  study  further  characterised  this  interaction.  
The key conclusions from this study are that it confirms the pharmacokinetic interaction between 
the  two  components  (reduction  in  exposure  to  simvastatin  acid  in  the  presence  of  fenofibrate) 
but  that  the  reduction  appears  to  be  of  comparable  magnitude  regardless  of  whether  the 
components are administered together or separated by 12 hours.  Of course, this finding is based 
on this single study only and with some uncertainty around the estimated effect sizes. This study 
also evaluated the lipid lowering effect of the combination (FDC and concomitant administration) 
and  provided  evidence  that  neither  was  there  a  difference  between  these  administrations,  nor 
between  either  of  these  modes  of  administration  and  simvastatin  alone.  As  the  study  duration 
was limited to 7 days, no confirmatory inference can be drawn regarding the long-term effects, 
and this must be sought from the longer-term clinical studies that are available from the clinical 
programme.  As  discussed  below,  interpretation  of  the  clinical  studies  are  complex,  in  particular 
since  they  were  designed  to  support  a  different  therapeutic  indication  (representing  a  higher 
hurdle  that  the  indication  finally  proposed  and  agreed).    Nevertheless,  these  clinical  data  are 
supportive,  confirming  an  effect  of  the  simvastatin  component  on  LDL-C  levels  based  on  the 
weight  of  evidence  from  the  pivotal  studies  from  the  applicant  and  the  ACCORD  study 
publication.  Based  on the evidence  that  the interaction  is  not  greater  for the  FDC  than  the  free 
association,  even  when  administered  at  different  times,  these  clinical  data  showing  the 
maintenance of the beneficial effect on LDL-C for simvastatin used in combination compared with 
simvastatin  alone  offer  adequate  reassurance.    Any  risk  is  likely  to  be  mitigated  by  using  the 
combination  only  when  LDL-C  levels  are  controlled  by  optimal  statin  dose,  reflecting  the 
restricted indication as agreed by the CHMP. 
All other drug interactions reported for the monotherapies are adequately captured in the SmPC 
of Cholib.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 33/70 
 
  
  
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The  individual  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate 
are  well  known.  The  mechanisms  of  actions  are  expected  to  be  complementary  for  the 
proposed  therapeutic  use  of  Cholib.  All  concerns  of  the  CHMP,  in  particular  those  relating  to 
pharmacokinetic interactions and bridging between the FDC  formulation and free association, 
were  addressed  by  the  applicant  and  the  CHMP  agreed  that  no  further  post-authorisation 
measures are necessary.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
Based on the fact that both active substances, simvastatin and fenofibrate, have been in clinical 
use  for  a  number  of  years  and  there  are  extensive  data  available  to  account  for  dose  response 
for  each  of  the  mono-therapies,  no  detailed  investigation  on  dose-finding  were  conducted. 
However,  within  the  clinical  development  programme,  i.e.,  the  efficacy  studies,  two  dose 
formulations of the fixed dose combination with different doses of simvastatin were included and 
provide additional data relating to the dose response. Fenofibrate has been used at a single dose 
of 145 mg in all clinical studies and this is indeed the dose included in the fixed combination of 
Cholib,  with  a  forced  titration  of  statin  doses  to  demonstrate  the  changes  in  lipid  parameters.  
The  selected  doses  are  considered  validated  by  widespread  clinical  practice  and  by  the  efficacy 
results observed in the pivotal studies. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
The efficacy of Cholib has been mainly tested in four main clinical studies: Study C LF0242780-
01 05 01 (referred thereafter as study 0501), Study C LF0242780-01 05 02 (study 0502), Study 
C  LF0242780-01  05  03  (study  0503)  and  Study  C  LF0242780-01  05  04  (study  0504).  These 
were supported by results from five published double-blind studies with fenofibrate or fenofibric 
acid and simvastatin (which also include the long-term studies i.e., FIELD and ACCORD lipid.) All 
four main studies were of a similar design of comparing the FDC with either a forced titration of 
statin doses (in two studies simvastatin in 0501, atorvastatin 0503) or a constant dose in 0502 
and 0504 (40mg simvastatin and 40mg of pravastatin respectively) from the start.  
Title of Study 
Study  C  LF0242780-01  05  01:  A  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized,  active  comparator, 
forced-titration  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  combination  of  145  mg 
fenofibrate and 20 or 40 mg simvastatin with 40 mg simvastatin monotherapy in patients with 
mixed  dyslipidemia  at  risk  of  cardiovascular  disease  not  adequately  controlled  by  20  mg 
simvastatin alone. 
Study  C  LF0242780-01  05  02:  A  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized  study  to  compare  the 
efficacy and safety of the combination of 145 mg fenofibrate and 40 mg simvastatin with 40 mg 
simvastatin  monotherapy  in  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidemia  at  risk  of  cardiovascular  disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 34/70 
 
  
  
not adequately controlled by 40 mg simvastatin alone. 
Study C LF0242780-01 05 03:  A multicenter, double-blind, randomized, forced-titration study 
to compare the efficacy and safety of the combination of 145 mg fenofibrate and 20 or 40 mg 
simvastatin  with  atorvastatin  monotherapy  in  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidemia  at  risk  of 
cardiovascular disease not adequately controlled by 10 mg atorvastatin alone. 
Study C LF0242780-01 05 04: A multicenter, double-blind, randomized forced-titration study to 
compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  combination  of  145  mg  fenofibrate  and  20  or  40  mg 
simvastatin with 40 mg pravastatin monotherapy in patients with mixed dyslipidemia at risk of 
cardiovascular disease not adequately controlled by 40 mg pravastatin alone. 
Methods 
The design of the pivotal studies was largely similar. All subjects were first included in a 6-week 
open-label  run-in  period  with  statin  monotherapy.  Subjects  not  adequately  controlled  by  statin 
were  randomized  in  a  24-week  double-blind  period  (DB)  using  the  run-in  statin  as  the  control 
treatment.  In  all  studies  except  the  0502,  the  subjects  who  completed  the  double-blind  period 
entered a 28-week open-label extension period. 
Study Participants 
The  patient  population  consisted  in  subjects  with  mixed  dyslipidemia,  at  risk for  coronary  heart 
disease or cardiovascular disease, who had no history of muscle disease and whose dyslipidemia 
was not controlled by simvastatin, atorvastatin or pravastatin monotherapy. 
The  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  were  the  same  in  all  studies:  male  or  female  subjects,  between 
18  and  75  years,  presenting  with  CHD  or  CHD  risk  equivalent  (excluding  diabetes)  per  NCEP 
ATPIII in whom 10-year risk for CHD was more than 20% or with no CHD but with multiple risk 
factors  (≥ 2).  The  Framingham  score  at  randomization  had  to  be  ≥ 10%.  At  randomization, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 35/70 
 
  
  
 
 
subjects had TG ≥ 1.71 mmol/L and <4.00 mmol/L. In subjects with CHD or CHD risk equivalent 
in whom 10-year risk for CHD was >20%, LDL-C was ≥ 2.58 mmol/L but <4.91 mmol/L or Non-
HDL-C  ≥ 3.36  mmol/L  but  <5.69  mmol/L.  In  subjects  with  multiple  risk  factors  equivalent  in 
whom  10-year  risk  for  CHD  was  10  to  20%,  LDL-C  was  ≥ 3.36  mmol/L  but  <5.69  mmol/L  or 
Non-HDL-C ≥ 4.13 mmol/L but < 6.46 mmol/L. 
Pregnant and lactating women were excluded, as subjects with known type 1 or type 2 diabetes. 
Amongst  other  factors  excluding  subjects  were  known  active  or  chronic  hepatobiliary  or  liver 
diseases,  known  cholelithiasis,  current  chronic  pancreatitis,  alcoholism,  medical  history  of 
myositis,  myopathy  or  rhabdomyolysis,  known  abnormal  thyroid  hormone  levels,  uncontrolled 
endocrine  or  metabolic  disease  known  to  influence  serum  lipids  or  lipoproteins,  renal  failure  or 
renal  dysfunction,  congestive  heart  failure  class  III  or  IV,  uncontrolled  cardiac  arrhythmias, 
myocardial infarction, coronary bypass surgery or angioplasty within three months of inclusion in 
the  study,  unstable  or  severe  peripheral  artery  disease  within  three  months  of  inclusion  in  the 
study, any other severe pathology such as cancer or mental illness or degenerative disease that 
would limit study evaluation or participation.  
Treatments 
Study 
Dosing and administration 
C LF0242780-01 05 01 
C LF0242780-01 05 02 
C LF0242780-01 05 03 
C LF0242780-01 05 04 
Run-in period: simvastatin 20 mg 
Double-blind treatment period: 
- fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 20 mg for 12 weeks 
(feno145+simva20) and forced titration to fenofibrate 145 mg + 
simvastatin 40 mg (feno145+simva40) for 12 weeks or  
- Placebo fenofibrate + simvastatin 40 mg for 24 weeks (simva40). 
Run-in period: simvastatin 40 mg 
Double-blind treatment period: 
- fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 40 mg for 24 weeks 
(feno145+simva40) or 
- Placebo fenofibrate + simvastatin 40 mg for 24 weeks (simva40). 
Run-in period: atorvastatin 10 mg 
Double-blind treatment period: 
- fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 20 mg for 12 weeks 
(feno145+simva20) and forced titration to fenofibrate 145 mg + 
simvastatin 40 mg for 12 weeks (feno145+simva40) or 
- Placebo fenofibrate + atorvastatin 10 mg for 12 weeks (atorva10) and 
forced-titration to Placebo fenofibrate + atorvastatin 20 mg for 12 weeks 
(atorva20). 
Run-in period: pravastatin 40 mg 
Double-blind treatment period: 
- fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 20 mg for 12 weeks 
(feno145+simva20) and forced titration to fenofibrate 145 mg + 
simvastatin 40 mg for 12 weeks (feno145+simva40) or 
- Placebo fenofibrate + pravastatin 40 mg for 24 weeks (prava40). 
In all studies except 0502, the subjects who completed the double-blind period entered an open 
extension period, while they were first treated with fenofibrate 145mg+simvastatin 20mg for six 
weeks. Then, subjects who did not achieve the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP)-
Adult  Treatment  Panel  III  (ATP  III)1  LDL-C  and/or  TG  goals  had  their  treatment  uptitrated  to 
fenofibrate  145mg+simvastatin  40mg  until  the  end  of  the  study  while  the  other  subjects 
continued fenofibrate 145 mg+simvastatin 20mg treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 36/70 
 
  
  
 
 
Objectives 
In  studies  0501  and  0503,  the  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate,  in  subjects  not  adequately 
controlled  by  simvastatin  20  mg  and  atorvastatin  10  mg  respectively,  the  efficacy  of  the  co-
administration of fenofibrate 145 mg and simvastatin 20 mg compared to the statin monotherapy 
to  reduce  TG  and  increase  HDL-C  without  losing  efficacy  in  reducing  LDL-C,  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment.  In  studies  0502  and  0504,  the  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate,  in  subjects  not 
adequately  controlled  by  simvastatin  40  mg  and  pravastatin  40  mg  respectively,  the  efficacy  of 
the co-administration of fenofibrate 145 mg and simvastatin compared to statin monotherapy to 
reduce LDL-C and TG and to increase HDL-C after 12 weeks of treatment. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  percent  change  from  baseline  to  12  weeks  of  treatment  in  TG, 
HDL-C and LDL-C. 
The secondary endpoints were treatment effects compared the treatment groups on: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
the percent change from baseline to 24 weeks of treatment in TG, HDL-C and LDL-C; 
the percent change from baseline to 12 weeks and 24 weeks of treatment in Non-HDL-C, TC, 
LDL size (only for studies 0501 and 0502), ApoAI and ApoB and ApoB/ApoAI ratio; 
the  changes  from  baseline  to  12  weeks,  and  24  weeks  in  high  sensitive  C-Reactive  Protein 
(hs-CRP) and fibrinogen; 
the percentage of subjects reaching the NCEP-ATP III targets after 12 weeks and 24 weeks; 
the percent change from 24 weeks to 30 and 52 weeks of treatment in TG, LDL-C, HDL-C, TC 
and  Non-HDL-C;  the  percentage  of  subjects  reaching  the  NCEP-ATP  III  targets  after  30 
weeks and 52 weeks and the changes from 24 weeks to 52 weeks in hs-CRP and fibrinogen 
(except for the study 0502). 
Sample size 
Calculation of the sample size was based on the co-primary endpoints: percentage change in TG, 
HDL-C and LDL-C from baseline to 12 weeks of treatment and, according to the individual trial, 
aimed  to  show  the  non-inferiority  of  the  co-administration  (145  mg  fenofibrate  +  20  mg 
simvastatin) versus statin alone on % change in LDL-C. The non-inferiority margin was fixed at 
4%,  assuming  a  true  mean  difference  between  the  2  groups  of  0  and  a  common  standard 
deviation of 18%, as well as the detection of a mean difference in % change from baseline to 12 
weeks  treatment  of  15%  in  TG,  assuming  a  common  standard  deviation  of  30%  and  of  7%  in 
HDL-C,  assuming  a  common  standard  deviation  of  18%  in  order  to  show  the  superiority  of  the 
co-administration versus statin alone on % change in TG and HDL-C. 
Randomisation 
The  randomisation  was  stratified  by  gender  and  by  cardiovascular  risk  level.  As  the  number  of 
centres  was  large  with  regard  to  the  total  sample  size,  the  randomisation  was  not  stratified  by 
centre,  but  a  centralised  randomisation  was  used  in  order  to  ensure  an  optimal  control  of  the 
group  balance.  Treatments  were  assigned  at  the  randomisation  visit  to  patients  compliant  with 
the inclusion/exclusion/randomisation criteria using four block-balanced randomisation lists. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 37/70 
 
  
  
Blinding (masking) 
During  the  blinded  treatment  period,  statin  tablets  were  over-encapsulated  identically  in  all 
studies, except the 0502 study for which simvastatin 40 mg tablets were used in both arms, in 
order  to  prevent  the  investigators,  the  subjects,  or  the  sponsor  to  identify  the  treatment.  The 
results  of  the  lipid  tests  were  not  provided  to  the  investigators,  the  trial  physicians,  the  clinical 
study managers or the monitors, thus, these remained blinded. 
Statistical methods 
All  trials  used  ANCOVA  approach  to  analyse  the  primary  analysis  data,  adjusting  for  baseline, 
gender and cardiovascular risk category. Last Observation Carried Forwards was used to impute 
missing  data  for  the  primary  endpoint.  In  order  to  control  the  Type  I  error,  all  three  primary 
endpoints  (LDL-C,  HDL-C  and  TG)  were  expected  to  be  significant.  For  HDL-C  and  TG  this  was 
superiority,  and  for  LDL-C  this  was  non-inferiority  in  2  studies  and  superiority  in  2.  The  CHMP 
agreed that the methods used to analyse the data were acceptable. The method used to handle 
the missing data were also acceptable and the control of the type I error is appropriate. 
Results 
Participant flow 
The overall patient flow in the complete clinical programme is depicted on the figure below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 38/70 
 
  
  
Recruitment 
All clinical trials were multicentric. Study 0501 was conducted in centres mainly in the EU; study 
0502 was conducted in the EU/ Australia/New Zealand; study 0503 was conducted in the EU and 
Ukraine; study 0504 was conducted in the EU, Israel, Russia and South Africa. 
Conduct of the study 
No major issues in study conduct were reported by the applicant based on the quality control and 
assurance  activities.  The  numbers  of  protocol  deviations  are  acceptable  and  do  not  cause  any 
concerns. 
Baseline data 
Summary of demographic data in the main studies are provided in the table below. 
Demographics  and  Cardiovascular  Risk  Factors  per  Study  –  Subjects  treated  in  the  24-week 
Double-Blind Period 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 39/70 
 
  
  
 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  study  population  is  as  expected  based  on  the  inclusion/exclusion 
criteria.  Majority  of the  subjects  are  male  and of  relatively  high  cardiovascular  risk.  There  were 
no  major  imbalances  in  the  study  arms  at  baseline.  The  exclusion  of  diabetic  patients  and 
patients with recent CV event/intervention reduces the external validity of the results. 
Numbers analysed 
Overall, 1241 subjects were randomised to and 1237 subjects were treated with the fenofibrate 
and  simvastatin  co-administration.  Thus,  1233  patients  were  randomised  to  and  1230  treated 
with the statin mono-therapy; please see table overview below. 
Populations Evaluated in the Phase 3 Studies 
Co-administration 
Statin monotherapy  
Overall 
Treated in statin run-in period 
Randomized in double-blind period 
Treated in double-blind period 
- Analyzed for safety 0-12 weeks 
- Analyzed for safety 0-24 weeks* 
- Analyzed for efficacy 0-12 weeks 
(0501, 0503, 0504) 
- Analyzed for efficacy 0-24 weeks 
Treated with co-administration in 
open extension period** 
- 
1241 
1237 
1237 
1204 
962 
1070  
786 
7583 
1233 
1230 
1230 
1194 
976 
1088 
816 
7583 
2474 
2467 
2467 
2398 
1938 
2058 
1602 
* 33 subjects randomised to co-administration and 36 randomised to statin monotherapy who received the 
alternative treatment from 12 to 24 weeks were excluded, **Numbers are given according to 
randomization: 816 subjects initially randomized to statin monotherapy received co-administration in the 
extension period. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The assessment of efficacy was based on the individual and the integrated analyses of the  four 
double-blind  randomized  studies.  The  main  outcomes  in  the  clinical  development  programme 
were changes in lipid parameters in 12 and 24 week observations; lower dose for 12 weeks and 
higher  dose  of  statins  where  relevant  in  the  FDC  arm  for  12  weeks.  While  2  of  the  4  studies 
followed  the  forced  titration  pattern,  it  is  of  note  that  no  long  term  data  in  terms  of  clinical 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 40/70 
 
  
  
 
 
outcomes  were  presented.  The  effect  on  long  term  outcomes  are  assumed  based  on  published 
evidence  accrued  over the  years  for  modification  of LDL-C,  increasing  HDL-C  and  TGs.  Of  note, 
the  role  of  TGs  as  independent  risk  factor  after  satisfactory  reduction  of  LDL-C  and  control  of 
HDL-C  are  yet  unproven  even  in  the  mixed  dyslipidemia  patients.  Thus,  the  clinical  discussion 
below centres around maintenance of long-term lipid modifying effect related to reduction of TGs 
and LDL-C and increase in HDL-C.  
The  key  primary  and  secondary  parameters  for  individual  and  integrated  analysis  are 
summarised in the table below. 
Parameters for individual and integrated analysis.  
The  secondary  efficacy  parameters  included:  the  percent  change  from  baseline  to  24  weeks  of 
treatment  in  TG,  HDL-C  and  LDL-C;  the  percent  change  from  baseline  to  12    &  24  weeks  of 
treatment  in  Non-HDL-C,  TC,  LDL  size  (for  studies  0501  and  0502),  ApoAI  and  ApoB  and 
ApoB/ApoAI  ratio;    the  changes  from  baseline  to  12  &  24  weeks  in  hs-CRP  and  fibrinogen;  the 
percentage  of  subjects  reaching  the  NCEP-ATP  III  targets  after  12  weeks  and  24weeks;  the 
percent  change  from  24  weeks  to  30  and  52  weeks  of  treatment  in  TG,  LDL-C,  HDL-C,  TC  and 
Non-HDL-C; the percentage of subjects reaching the NCEP-ATP III targets after 30weeks and 52 
weeks  and  the  changes  from  24  weeks  to  52  weeks  in  hs-CRP  and  fibrinogen  (except  for  the 
study 0502).  
The results of the individual and integrated analyses are presented in the following table. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 41/70 
 
  
  
 
 
Results of individual and integrated analysis of all 4 studies 
Study 0501: After 12 weeks of treatment, combination of fenofibrate 145mg +simvastatin 20mg 
was superior to simvastatin 40mg in reducing TG and, despite the interaction between treatment 
and  gender,  in  increasing  HDL-C  in  both  female  and  male  subjects,  as  well  as  in  the  whole 
population. The sensitivity analysis on percent change in LDL-C showed a statistically significant 
interaction between gender and treatment that did not allow concluding on the effect on LDL-C in 
the  overall  population.  After  24  weeks  of  treatment,  the  superiority  of  fenofibrate  145mg  + 
simvastatin 20/40mg over simvastatin 40mg in reducing TG, increasing HDL-C and reducing LDL-
C  in  female  subjects  was  maintained.  The  interaction  between  treatment  and  gender  persisted 
and the superiority of fenofibrate 145mg +simvastatin 20/40mg compared to simvastatin 40mg 
in reducing LDL-C in male subjects was not demonstrated.  
Study 0502: After 12 weeks of treatment, fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 40mg was superior 
to  simvastatin  40mg  in  reducing  TG  and  increasing  HDL-C  levels.  A  significant  interaction 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 42/70 
 
  
  
 
 
between  treatment  and  gender  did  not  allow  concluding  on  the  effect  on  LDL  C  in  the  overall 
population. The superiority of fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 40mg over simvastatin 40mg was 
shown in female subjects only. After 24 weeks of treatment, the superiority of fenofibrate 145mg 
+  simvastatin  40mg  over  simvastatin  40mg  in  reducing  TG  and  increasing  HDL-C  was 
maintained. Similar treatment and gender interaction was seen as in study 501.  
Study  0503:  The  fixed  dose  combination  of  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  was  compared  with  10 
and  20  mg  atorvastatin.  After  12  weeks  of  treatment,  fenofibrate  145mg  +  simvastatin  20mg 
was  superior  to  atorvastatin  10mg  in  reducing  TG  and  increasing  HDL-C  levels.  The  sensitivity 
analysis on percent change in LDL-C showed a statistically significant interaction between gender 
and treatment that did not allow concluding on the effect on LDL-C in the overall population but 
changes  from  baseline  observed  in  both  treatment  groups  were  similar.  Non-inferiority  of 
fenofibrate  145mg  +simvastatin  20mg  compared  to  atorvastatin  10mg  on  LDL-C  reduction  was 
shown  in  females  only.  After  24  weeks  of  treatment,  the  superiority  of  fenofibrate  145mg 
+simvastatin  20/40mg  over  atorvastatin  10/20mg  in  reducing  TG  and  in  increasing  HDL-C  was 
maintained despite an interaction between treatment and gender for HDL-C. The non- inferiority 
of  fenofibrate  145mg  +  simvastatin  20/40mg  compared  to  atorvastatine  10/20mg  in  reducing 
LDL-C was not demonstrated.  
Study 0504:  Safety of the co-administration of fenofibrate 145 mg and simvastatin 20 or 40 mg 
with pravastatin 40 mg and its efficacy to reduce TG and LDL-C and increase HDL-C after 12 and 
24  weeks  of  treatment  was  compared.  After  12  weeks  of  treatment,  feno145+simva20  was 
superior  to  prava40  in  reducing  TG  and  in  increasing  HDL-C.  Despite  a  significant  interaction 
between  treatment  and  gender  the  superiority  of  the  co-administration  in  reducing  LDL-C  was 
shown  in  both  male  and  female  subjects  and  in  the  whole  population.  After  24  weeks  of 
treatment,  the  superiority  of  co-administration  over  prava40  in  reducing  TG  and  in  increasing 
HDL-C was maintained, while LDL-C reduction was improved. Of the 4 studies, this was the only 
study  to  convincingly  show  the  superiority  of  fenofibrate+  simvastatin  over  40  mg  pravastatin, 
but this is unsurprising.  
The summary of efficacy for combined analysis of all main trials is presented in the table below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 43/70 
 
  
  
Summary of efficacy for combined analysis of main studies 
Ancillary analyses 
No ancillary analyses have been presented. 
Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  (0501  and  0502) 
supporting  the  present  application.  These  summaries  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the 
discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). Studies 
0503 and 0504 are not presented here since other statins were also administered to the tested 
populations. 
Summary of efficacy for trial C LF0242780-01 0501 
Title:  A  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized,  active  comparator,  forced-titration  study  to  compare  the  efficacy 
and  safety  of  the  combination  of  145  mg  fenofibrate  and  20  or  40  mg  simvastatin  with  40  mg  simvastatin 
monotherapy in patients with mixed dyslipidemia at risk of cardiovascular disease not adequately controlled by 20 
mg simvastatin alone. 
Study identifier 
C LF0242780-01 05 01 
Design 
Multicenter phase III, randomized, double-blind, 2-parallel arm, and comparative study with 
a 6-week active run-in period 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 44/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
24 weeks (with a simvastatin dose 
escalation after 12 weeks) 
6 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase: 
28 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority on TG and HDL-C, non-inferiority on LDL-C at 12 weeks 
Treatments groups 
Simvastatin 20 mg (simva20) 
Fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 20 mg 
(feno145+simva20) 
Fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 40 mg 
(feno145+simva40) 
Simvastatin 40 mg (simva40) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary endpoint 
Secondary endpoint 
Other secondary 
endpoints 
Change in TG, HDL-
C and LDL-C (12 
weeks) 
Change in TG, HDL-
C and LDL-C (24 
weeks) 
Change in TC, 
Non-HDL-C, LDL 
size, ApoAI, ApoB, 
ApoB/ApoAI ratio, 
hsCRP, fibrinogen 
Subjects reaching 
NCEP ATPIII targets 
Safety measurement  Adverse events, 
withdrawals or drop-
out rate, laboratory 
data, vital signs, 
physical examination  
Database lock 
9 February 2009 
Results and Analysis  
Simvastatin 20 mg  taken once a day orally, 
during run-in of 6 weeks – 3013 patients 
Fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 20 mg  
taken as 2 tablets,  once a day orally, during 
12 weeks  (W0 to W12)– 526 patients 
randomized 
Fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 40 mg  
taken as 2 tablets,  once a day orally, during 
12 weeks (W12 to W24) 
Fenofibrate placebo + Simvastatin 40 mg  
taken as 2 tablets, once a day orally, during 
24 weeks – 524 patients randomized 
Percent change from baseline to 12 weeks 
of treatment in TG, HDL-C and LDL-C 
Percent change from baseline to 24 weeks 
of treatment in TG, HDL-C and LDL-C 
Change from baseline to 12 weeks and 
24 weeks  
Percentage of subjects reaching the NCEP-
ATP III targets after 12 weeks, 24, 30 and 
52 weeks for LDL-C, TG, non-HDL-C, LDL-C 
and TG, non-HDL-C and TG, (LDL-C or non-
HDL-C) and TG levels 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis 
Safety subject sample: 526 in the fenofibrate 145mg+simvastatin 20/40mg 
(feno145+simva20/40) group and 524 in the simva40 group. 
Full Analysis (FA) subject sample: 493 (feno145+simva20/40) group and 505 in the 
simva40 group. 
Per Protocol (PP) subject sample: 462 in the (feno145+simva20/40) group and 459 in the 
simva40 group. 
Treatment group 
feno145 + simva20 
simva40  
Number of subject 
TG (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
median 
12 weeks  
median 
493 
2.48 
1.68 
505 
2.54  
2.21 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 45/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 weeks 
median 
LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
mean (SD) 
12 weeks  
mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
HDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
Mean (SD) 
12 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
 -35.6 
 -12.1 
3.39 (0.66) 
3.41 (0.68) 
3.16 (0.87) 
  3.01 (0.83) 
 -5.6 (23.0) 
-10.5 (23.0) 
1.24 (0.27) 
1.23 (0.30) 
1.32 (0.32) 
1.24 (0.28) 
7.3 (15.8) 
1.6 (15.8) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 46/70 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
TG 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
(ANCOVA with 
treatment, baseline 
value, gender and 
CV risk as covariate) 
LDL-C 
HDL-C 
feno145 + simva20  
(LS mean estimate) 
simva40  
(LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison 
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
feno145 + simva20 
(LS mean estimate) 
simva40  
(LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison  
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
feno145 + simva20  
(LS mean estimate) 
simva40 
 (LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison 
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
-35.26 
-11.96 
-26.47  
( -29.99, -22.78) 
<0.001 
-5.62 
-10.37 
4.75 
(2.00, 7.51) 
NA* 
8.26 
2.50 
5.76 
 (3.88, 7.65) 
<0.001 
*Non inferiority test with the non-inferiority on percent change in LDL-C being 
demonstrated if the upper boundary of the 95% CI was smaller than the non-inferiority 
margin fixed at 4%. 
Secondary Analysis 
Full Analysis (FA) subject sample: 460 in the feno145 + simva20/40 group and 469 in the 
simva40. 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Results after 24 weeks of treatment 
Treatment group 
feno145 + 
simva20/40 
Number of subject 
422 
simva40  
P value 
(calculated from LS 
mean estimate) 
437 
2.54  
 2.26 
  -9.8 
<0.001 
2.46  
 1.58  
 -39.0  
TG (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
Median 
24 weeks  
Median 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 weeks 
Median 
LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
mean (SD) 
24weeks  
mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
HDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
Mean (SD) 
24weeks 
Mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
3.38 (0.67) 
3.40 (0.68) 
 3.00 (0.90) 
 3.03 (0.84) 
-9.7 (25.4) 
-9.8 (23.0) 
0.951 
1.24 (0.28) 
1.23 (0.30) 
1.32 (0.32) 
1.22 (0.29) 
7.4 (17.5) 
0.1 (17.1) 
<0.001 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 47/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
Summary of efficacy for trial C LF0242780-01 05 02 
Title:  A  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  combination  of 
145  mg  fenofibrate  and  40  mg  simvastatin  with  40  mg  simvastatin  monotherapy  in  patients  with  mixed 
dyslipidemia at risk of cardiovascular disease not adequately controlled by 40 mg simvastatin alone 
Study identifier 
C LF0242780-01 05 02 
Design 
Multicenter phase III, randomized, double-blind, 2-parallel arm, and comparative study 
with a 6-week, active, run-in period 
Duration of main phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
6 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase: 
not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority on TG, LDL-C  and HDL-C at 12 weeks 
Treatments groups 
Simvastatin 40 mg  
145 mg fenofibrate + 40 mg 
simvastatin (feno145+simva40 
group) 
Fenofibrate placebo + 40 mg 
simvastatin (simva40 group) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Other 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change in 
TG, HDL-C 
and LDL-C 
(12 weeks) 
Change in 
TG, HDL-C 
and LDL-C 
(24 weeks) 
Change in TC, 
non-HDL-C, 
LDL size, 
ApoAI, APoB, 
ApoB/ApoAI 
and,hsCRP, 
fibrinogen, 
Subjects 
reaching 
NCEP ATPIII 
targets 
Safety 
measurement 
20 November 2008 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Simvastatin 40 mg  taken once a day orally, during 
run-in of 6 weeks – 1187 patients 
Fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 40 mg  taken as 
2 tablets,  once a day orally, during 24 weeks – 
226 patients randomized 
Fenofibrate placebo + Simvastatin 40 mg  taken as 
2 tablets, once a day orally, during 24 weeks – 224 
patients randomized 
Percent change from baseline to 12 weeks of 
treatment in TG, HDL-C and LDL-C 
Percent change from baseline to 24 weeks of 
treatment in TG, HDL-C and LDL-C 
Change from baseline to 12 weeks and 24 weeks in 
hsCRP and fibrinogen 
Percentage of subjects reaching the NCEP-ATP III 
targets after 12 weeks and 24 weeks for LDL-C, 
TG, non-HDL-C, LDL-C and TG, non-HDL-C and TG, 
(LDL-C or non-HDL-C) and TG levels 
Adverse events, withdrawals or drop-out rate, 
laboratory data, vital signs, physical examination  
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Safety subject sample: 225 in feno145+simva40 group and 224 in the simva40 
group. 
Full Analysis (FA) subject sample: 221 in the feno145+simva40 group and 219 in the 
simva40group. 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Per Protocol (PP) subject sample: 195 in the feno145+simva40 group and 198 in the 
simva40 group. 
Treatment group 
feno145+simva40 
simva40  
Number of subject 
221 
219 
Page 48/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TG (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
median 
12 weeks  
median 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 
weeks 
median 
LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
mean (SD) 
12 weeks  
mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 
weeks 
Mean (SD) 
HDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
Mean (SD) 
12 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 12 
weeks 
Mean (SD) 
TG 
LDL-C 
HDL-C 
2.61 
2.57  
1.70 
 -33.2% 
2.41 
 -7.1% 
3.28 (0.71) 
3.30 (0.73) 
3.00 (0.83) 
  3.07 (0.82) 
 -6.3% (23.5) 
-5.2% (22.0) 
1.22 (0.27) 
1.21 (0.27) 
1.28 (0.32) 
1.19 (0.26) 
5.8% (16.0) 
-0.8% (13.0) 
Feno145 + simva40  
(LS mean estimate) 
Simva40  
(LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison 
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
Feno145 + simva40 
(LS mean estimate) 
Simva40  
(LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison  
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
Feno145 + simva40 
(LS mean estimate) 
Simva 
 (LS mean estimate) 
Treatment comparison 
LS mean (95%CI) 
P-value 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
(ANCOVA with 
treatment, baseline 
value, gender and CV 
risk as covariate) 
Analysis description 
Secondary Analysis  
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Treatment group 
feno145+simva40  
Simva40   
Number of subject 
TG (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
median 
24 weeks  
median 
213 
2.61 
1.76 
203 
2.54 
2.56 
-35.062 
-9.570 
-28.19  
(-32.91, -23.13) 
<0.001 
-7.731 
-6.487 
-1.24  
(-5.22, 2.73) 
0.539 
7.296 
0.834 
6.46 
 (3.83, 9.09) 
<0.001 
P value 
(calculated from LS 
mean estimate)  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 49/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 
weeks 
median 
LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
mean (SD) 
24 weeks  
mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 
weeks 
Mean (SD) 
HDL-C (mmol/L) 
Baseline  
Mean (SD) 
24 weeks 
Mean (SD) 
% Change from 
baseline to 24 
weeks 
Mean (SD) 
-30.9 
-4.1 
<0.001 
3.27 (0.71) 
3.30 (0.74) 
3.08 (0.86) 
3.34 (1.01) 
-4.0 (24.16) 
3.1 (30.0) 
0.005 
1.22 (0.27) 
1.22 (0.27) 
1.28 (0.30) 
1.22 (0.28) 
5.1 (16.1) 
0.6 (13.2) 
0.001 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 50/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In  the  integrated  analysis  of  the  four  studies  analysed  at  12  weeks,  fenofibrate  145  mg  + 
simvastatin  20  mg  only  reached  the  TG  and  HDL-C  objectives  of  superiority  over  statin 
monotherapy  with  similar  incremental  changes,  28.0  %  and  7.0%,  respectively.  A  highly 
statistically  significant  heterogeneity  was  observed  between  studies  for  LDL-C.  Thus,  the 
additional 1.7% reduction in LDL-C at 12 weeks with co-administration as compared with statin 
monotherapy  had  a  95%  confidence  interval  which  crossed  the  4%  non-inferiority  margin  with 
the random model. Analysis at 24 weeks showed that fenofibrate 145 mg + simvastatin 40 mg 
reached  its  three  objectives,  superiority  on  TG  and  HDL-C  and  non-inferiority  in  LDL-C,  thus 
fulfilling  the  pre-defined  hypothesis  of  efficacy.  When  compared  to  statins,  co-administration  of 
fenofibrate  145  mg  and  simvastatin  40  mg  gave  an  additional  reduction  in  TG  by  29.0%,  an 
additional  increase  in  HDL-C  by  6.4%  and  an  additional  reduction  in  LDL-C  by  5.4%  (95%CI  -
12.7; +1.8%). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Within  the  development  programme,  certain  special  or  sub-populations  were  studied  and  these 
included subjects with renal impairment, subjects older than 65 years and women. Although the 
studies were not specifically designed to investigate these subgroups, the distribution of patients 
made  subgroup  analysis  possible.  In  the  group  with  renal  insufficiency  (n=204),  comparison  of 
subsets based on their eGFR (30-59mls/min/1.73m2   or ≥  60 mL/min/1.73m²) the incremental 
reduction of TGs and increase of HDL were both were higher in the FDC group as compared with 
simvastatin alone group. There were no subjects with eGFR <30ms (an exclusion criterion) and 
therefore  no  conclusion  can  be  drawn.  Gender  was  another  criteria  where  showed  a  consistent 
interaction with treatment although these data were generated within the main studies and  not 
by  specific  gender  based  studies.  The  treatment  by  gender  interaction  suggests  that  the  fixed 
dose combination has less effect in males but this finding remains to be fully explained. In light 
of  the  beneficial  effects  on  biochemical  parameters  in  both  males  and  females  this  lack  of 
understanding is not considered reason for objection. 
Supportive studies 
The  applicant  presented  the  results  of several  published  studies in  support of  the  application  in 
the  dossier.  Of  these,  the  large  long-term  ACCORD  study  is  discussed  in  detail  and  the  FIELD 
trial in diabetic patients is referenced for safety aspects. Whilst the therapeutic indication claimed 
for Cholib relates to biochemical parameters (TG, HDL-C and LDL-C), discussion is also provided 
on  the  clinical  outcome  data  of  the  ACCORD  and  FIELD  trials,  please  see  table  below.  The 
supportive  studies  include  basis  for  use  of  fenofibrate  in  specific  populations  but  with  marginal 
benefit  in  terms  of  clinical  events  overall.  The  ACCORD  study  results  do  not  achieve  statistical 
significance  to  support  the  use  of  the  combination  in  all  patients  and  results  are  stronger  in 
specific subgroups of patients. With respect to the FIELD study, specifically regarding the diabetic 
patients  who  are  the  main  group  with  mixed  dyslipidemias  and  deemed  high  risk,  the 
results/outcomes  were  not  convincingly  different  between  fenofibrate  and  placebo  groups,  and 
any  difference  noted  was  primarily  in  re-vascularisation.  Importantly,  this  was  treatment  with 
fenofibrate alone and not the combination.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 51/70 
 
  
  
In terms of clinical outcomes, these two published studies provide strong data supporting the use 
of the statin + fenofibrate combination in a subset of the high risk patient group. The net gain in 
different  published  studies  of  the  co-administration  or  incremental  doses  of  statins  is  clearly  in 
favour  of  incremental  doses  of  statins.  There  is  evidence  of  incremental  benefit  with  statins 
(without fenofibrate) especially on LDL-C level and to an extent even on TGs and HDL-C levels, 
emphasising the need to demonstrate any advantages of the FDC in terms of clinical events over 
the standard clinical guideline and practise recommendations to optimise the dose of statins in all 
high risk subjects before additional treatments are considered.  
Overview of main results obtained in the supportive efficacy studies 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The  clinical  development  programme  for  Cholib  was  conducted  with  the  co-administration  of 
fenofibrate and simvastatin. Four main clinical studies were carried out, which were supported by 
five published double-blind supportive studies with fenofibrate or fenofibric acid and simvastatin 
(these  also  include  the  long-term  studies  FIELD  and  ACCORD  lipid).    All  pivotal  studies  were 
double blind, randomised, active controlled studies with trials 0501 and 0503 adopting a forced 
titration  for  simvastatin  dose.  The  studies  investigated  a  single  dose  of  fenofibrate,  which  can 
limit the potential to evaluate a true dose response.  All subjects were first included in a 6-week 
open-label  run-in  period  with  statin  monotherapy.  Subjects  not  adequately  controlled  by  statin 
were  randomised  in  a  24-week  double-blind  period  (DB)  using  the  run-in  statin  as  the  control 
treatment.  In  all  studies  except  the  0502  study,  the  subjects  who  completed  the  double-blind 
period entered a 28-week open-label extension period (OP).  
The study participants are considered broadly representative of the population that the applicant 
aims  to  seek  the  indication  for,  although  the  patients  included in  the  clinical trials  did  not  have 
LDL-C  control  at  baseline,  thus  representing  a  more  rigorous  experimental  situation  for  the 
examination of the simvastatin component.  A group of patients with mixed dyslipidemia (type-2 
diabetes  mellitus)  were  excluded  from  the  pivotal  trials,  though  were  included  in  the  long  term 
studies with fenofibrate, such as ACCORD lipid and FIELD trials. The exclusion of the population 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 52/70 
 
  
  
 
with  diabetes,  the  most  common  single  disease  with  mixed  dyslipidemia  at  high  risk  of  CV 
events,  from  the  pivotal  studies  is  a  limitation  of  this  development  programme,  though  as 
indicated,  data  in  this  subset  of  the  population  are  included  in  the  large  supportive  studies. 
Therefore  reliance  is  placed  on  publications  and  the  data  presented  there  as  evidence  in  such 
patients; appreciating that both of the monocomponents, used alone or in combination, are used 
in  this  population  in  clinical  practice.  In  addition,  in  the  context  of  the  restricted  indication, 
extrapolation  from  the  trial  population  across  the  different  types  of  patients  who  have  LDL-C 
control  on  simvastatin  when  switching  to  the  fixed  dose  combination  is  reasonable  and  the 
exclusion of this group from the clinical trial population presents no objection.   
The  objectives  of  the  pivotal  studies  are  well  defined  in  terms  of  the  effects  on  biochemical 
parameters:  a  reduction  in  TGs,  reduction  in  LDL-C  and  increase  of  HDL-C.  The  blinding, 
randomisation  and  study  evaluation  are  considered  appropriate  for  the  endpoints.  The  ideal 
design  here  would  have  included  a  monotherapy  arm  with  incremental  doses  of  simvastatin  or 
ensure  to  that  the  run  in  statin  was  appropriately  dosed.  Whilst  this  is  not  considered  to  be  a 
critical issue by the CHMP, since the studies still represent a rigorous examination of the efficacy 
of  the  simvastatin  component,  there  is  no  definitive  answer  on  further  titration  of  simvastatin 
compared  to  the  addition  of  fenofibrate.    Nevertheless,  this  is  a  matter  for  clinical  practice  and 
therapeutic  choice,  and  does  not  directly  bear  on  the  assessment  of  risk-benefit  for  the  fixed 
dose combination. The methods used to analyse the data include the stratification factors used in 
the  randomisation  and  are  considered  adequate  by  the  CHMP.  The  method  used  to  handle  the 
missing data is acceptable since the amount of missing data is relatively small. The control of the 
Type  I  error  is  appropriate.  The  margin  chosen  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  has  not  been 
comprehensively justified and reasoned, nonetheless whilst this complicates a formal conclusion 
the estimated effects and associated confidence intervals can still be interpreted for their clinical 
relevance. The objective, endpoints proposed in support of the biochemical effects, blinding and 
randomisation are satisfactory.  The overall clinical aim of the treatment is to gain and maintain 
control  of  lipids  to  reduce  residual  CV  risk.    It  is  of  interest  therefore  to  reflect  on  whether  the 
reduction of TGs and increasing HDL-C levels that are beneficially impacted by adding the fibrate 
component translates into clinical event reduction.  This is yet to be fully established as reflected 
in the CHMP guideline on lipid modifying agents, which states that surrogacy is applicable to LDL-
C levels and mainly to statins.  However, the therapeutic indication agreed concentrates on the 
effects  on  the  biochemical  parameters  and  a  definitive  answer  to  this  question  is  not  critical  to 
judge the risk-benefit in the proposed indication; the use of the medicine is a matter for clinical 
practice.    The  key  for  this  dossier  is  to  establish  that  there  are  clinical  data  to  ensure  the 
maintenance of the LDL-C levels in patients who switch from simvastatin alone to the fixed dose 
combination in light of the reduction in exposure to the active metabolite of simvastatin and any 
resulting reduction of effect on LDL-C, a well-accepted surrogate for CV benefit with statins.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The main clinical outcomes in the trials were changes in lipid parameters in the 12 and 24 week 
observations.  The  CHMP  noted  that  no  long-term  data  in  terms  of  clinical  outcomes  were 
presented and this can be accepted in light of the reference to biochemical parameters and not 
to clinical outcomes in the therapeutic indication.  
The  main  difference  between  the  combination  arm  and  the  statin  alone  arm  in  each  study  is  in 
the reduction of TGs and increase in HDL-C. This finding routinely achieves statistical significance 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 53/70 
 
  
  
validating  the  efficacy  of  the  fibrate  component  administered  concomitantly  with  the  statin.  In 
the  pooled  primary  variable  analysis,  the  evidence  for  greater  reduction  of  TG  and  higher 
percentage  point  increment  to  HDL-C  levels  has  been  demonstrated.  The  effect  of  the  fibrate 
component is established. 
With regards to the LDL-C levels, the reductions in LDL-C of 0.8% and 3.4% at 12 and 24 weeks 
respectively, in a combined analysis of all studies (0501-0504) falls short of an ‘additive’ effect of 
the two components if one considers the expected margins of LDL-C reduction with each agent in 
monotherapy  (~27-34%  for  simvastatin  vs  15-30%  for  fenofibrate).  There  is  an  interaction 
between  treatment  and  gender  for  LDL-C  in  more  than  one  of  the  clinical  studies,  impacting 
interpretation  of  the  results,  in  terms  of  understanding  the  overall  estimated  effect.  From  a 
statistical view point, study 0501 did not formally demonstrate non-inferiority for LDL-C. In study 
0502,  the  same  complications  with  respect  to  missing  data  and  interpretability  of  results 
considering the failed primary endpoint remain for this study 
As  regards  the  gender  differences  previously  noted  by  the  CHMP,  more  analysis  of  ACCORD, 
FIELD publications and the lately conducted phase-1 study (PK- PD effect between genders at 7 
days) were presented. The applicant argued that treatment by gender interaction for the primary 
outcome  in  ACCORD  lipid  trial  is  not  consistent  with  other  studies  with  fenofibrate,  including 
FIELD,  in  which  there  was  no  significant  treatment-by-gender  interaction  and  estimates  of  the 
fenofibrate  treatment  benefit  were  numerically  larger  in  women  than  in  men.  In  the  population 
who should benefit more from the combination, high risk patients with controlled LDL-C on statin 
monotherapy,  there  was  a  reduction  in  CV  events  with  co-administration  of  fenofibrate  and 
simvastatin overall with no harm in women.  The treatment by gender interaction finding remains 
to  be  fully  explained,  but  in  light  of  the  beneficial  effects  on  biochemical  parameters  in  both 
males and females this lack of understanding is no reason for objection. 
Studies  0503  and  0504  are  considered  ‘supportive’  rather  than  pivotal  studies  in  light  of  the 
proposed  indication  to  use  the  product  in  patients  with  LDL-C  control  on  simvastatin,  which 
hence  becomes  the  comparator  of  primary  interest.    Studies  0503  and  0504  used  different 
control arms and they no longer bear directly on the proposed indication.  They do however offer 
supportive  evidence  in  terms  of  the  effect  of  Cholib  on  LDL-C.  The  FDC  has  less  effect  on  the 
LDL-C  reduction  compared  to  the  dose  of  atorvastatin  either  at  12  or  24  weeks  as  observed  in 
study  in  503,  but  in  particular  considering  the  limited  indication  proposed,  the  relative  potency 
between different  doses of  statins is  of  no  concern.    PD  measurements  included  in the  study  in 
healthy  volunteers  (M13-953)  are  also  supportive,  despite  being  short  term.  A  further  post-hoc 
analysis  of  the  ACCORD  data  based  on  the  publication  was  presented  by  the  applicant 
emphasising  the  subgroup  analysis  in  the  dyslipidaemic  population  as  identified  using  the  NCEP 
criteria. A similar analysis from FDA review group was also included, which used a different cut- 
off  for  TG  levels.  These  analyses  suggest  that  in  that  subgroup  there  was  a  difference  in  CV 
events  in  favour  of  the  simvastatin  plus  fenofibrate  in  comparison  to  statin  monotherapy.  In 
ACCORD lipid trial, the patients within the high risk diabetic population remaining dyslipidaemic 
on  statin  therapy  with  controlled  LDL-C  levels,  with  high  TG  and  low  HDL-C  benefited  from  a 
significant  reduction  in  the  primary  endpoint  with  a  satisfactory  safety  profile  over  5  years.  In 
total,  the  clinical  data  confirm  that  any  impact  of  the  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between 
fenofibrate and simvastatin has a clinical impact that is not relevant and the effect of simvastatin 
on LDL-C levels is observed in the clinical trials.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 54/70 
 
  
  
A  formal  conclusion  of  non-inferiority  for  the  effect  on  LDL-C  levels  in  a  population  of  patients 
who  are  not  well  controlled  on  simvastatin  is  not  possible.    This  was  the  target  population  that 
was  originally  proposed.  On  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  applicant  restricted  the  indication  to  use 
this combination in those patients for whom the LDL-C was controlled by the corresponding dose 
of simvastatin: 
“Cholib  is  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  and  exercise  in  high  cardiovascular  risk  adult 
patients with mixed dyslipidaemia to reduce triglycerides and increase HDL - C levels when LDL - 
C levels are adequately controlled with the corresponding dose of simvastatin monotherapy.” 
For  the  revised  target  population  based  on  patients  who  are  already  controlled  on  simvastatin, 
the formal failure of the studies cannot be regarded so critically in light of clear effect on LDL-C 
levels  as  expected  from  simvastatin  20  and  40mg,  the  clinical  pharmacology  data  and  the 
supportive  clinical data  that  are  described  above.    For  this  indication,  there  is clear  evidence  in 
the  clinical  trials  for  a  beneficial  effect  of  the  fibrate  component  on  biochemical  parameters  of 
HDL-C  and  TG  levels  and  the  weight  of  evidence  from  the  multiple  clinical  trial  publications 
presented indicates that control of LDL-C can be expected to be maintained from the simvastatin 
component.  Whilst  the  substance  interaction  that  decreases  exposure  to  LDL-C  is  of  some 
concern,  it  appears  to  be  of  similar  magnitude  to  that  observed  for  the  temporally  dissociated 
free association and evidence from the ACCORD study publication, larger than the pivotal studies 
presented, indicates control of LDL-C, albeit in a different patient population.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  applicant  has  presented  a  clinical  rationale  for  each  strength  of  the  proposed  fixed  dose 
combination, noting the established role of statins in reducing CV risk and CV events and lack of 
difference  in  clinical  outcome  between  “more  statins  vs  less  statins”  using  the  SEARCH  and 
IDEAL  trials.  It  is  accepted  that  simvastatin  is  licensed  at  the  doses  proposed  and  these  doses 
are  used  in  clinical  practice  in  the  treatment  of  high  risk  patients  using  the  lower  strength  in 
order  to  achieve  control  of  LDL-C,  or  due  to  problems  tolerating  higher  doses  or  more  potent 
statin treatment.  If a patient has control of LDL-C based on simvastatin 20mg and the treating 
physician  elects  to  add  a  fibrate  for  effects  on  TG  and  HDL-C,  then  the  fixed  dose  combination 
represents a viable treatment option. 
In light of the proposed change to the therapeutic indication it is considered that the efficacy for 
Cholib  has  been  demonstrated.  The  change  to  the  indication  mitigates  the  methodological 
concerns  described  above  and  the  totality  of  evidence  is  reassuring  such  that  not  only  will  the 
fibrate component benefit HDL-C and TG levels, but efficacy on LDL-C will be maintained by the 
combination. Residual concerns related to the substance interaction, on which further information 
was  provided  in  M13-963  study  indicating  that  the  interaction  was  no  greater  than  for  the 
temporally dissociated free association.  Long-term data from ACCORD provide reassurance that 
simvastatin  can  exert  its  effect  on  LDL-C  in  the  presence  of  fenofibrate  and  hence  despite  the 
presence  of  the  pharmacokinetic  interaction  although  no  difference  in  mean  LDL-C  levels  were 
noted in the two arms possibly suggesting that interaction did not influence mean LDL-C levels. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  interaction  was  sufficiently  small  not  to  detrimentally  affect  the 
risk level if the combination is aimed at a population that had already established LDL-C control. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 55/70 
 
  
  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The overall safety of the fixed dose combination is based on data from 3 different sources; i) the 
clinical  and  laboratory  safety  in  the  pivotal  studies;  ii)  data  from  supportive  studies  with  co-
administration  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  and  iii)  additional  supportive  data  provided  by 
studies  in  the  same  populations  as  mixed  dyslipidemia  with  co-administration  of  fenofibric  acid 
with  other  statins,  atorvastatin  and  rosuvastatin.  The  evaluation  of  safety  is  based  on  the 
comparison  of  co-administration  and  statin  monotherapy  during  the  24-week  randomized 
treatment  period.  As  the  pivotal  trials  used  very  similar  designs,  the  results  of  integrated  pre-
defined  safety  evaluation  plan  are  expected  to  provide  the  framework.  The  adverse  events  of 
special interest are muscle, renal and hepatic events. The observations made during the 28-week 
extension period permit one to get insights into the safety profile of co-administration for up to 
one year. 
Patient exposure 
The exposure in the double blind phase is described in the tables below. 
Extent of Exposure - From Baseline to 24 Weeks 
Overall exposure of subjects 
The  1,602  subjects  entering  the  open  extension  period  were  subdivided  into  786  initially 
randomized  to  co-administration  and  816  initially  randomized  to  statin  monotherapy.  Thus, 
2,053 subjects (1,237 + 816) received the co-administration; 979 coming from the three studies 
with  a  28-week  open  extension  were  exposed  to  up  to  52  weeks  and  were  analysed  for  the 
period  from  baseline  to  52  weeks.  The  overall  exposure  of  subjects  in  the  clinical  development 
programme of Cholib is considered acceptable to the CHMP. 
Adverse events 
The  summary  distribution  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs)  in  the  four  studies  of 
the clinical program is shown in the table below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 56/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Overall summary of AEs 
The  frequency  of  AEs  did  not  differ  between  the  combination  co-administration  and  statin 
monotherapy in any study but differed between studies: lowest in study 0503 (approx. 20% for 
each  12  week  period)  and  highest  in  study  0502  (approx.  33%).  There  was  a  relationship 
between  dose  and  frequency  of  adverse  events  in  both  the  12-  and  24-week  analyses  with  the 
higher  dose  having  higher  event  rates,  although  the  difference  was  not  statistically  analysed. 
During the open-label run-in period, the percentage of subjects who experienced at least one AE 
was  higher  for  the  non-randomised  subjects  (32.0%  of  subjects)  compared  to  the  randomised 
group  (20.3%  of  subjects).  Overall,  8.4%  of  the  non-randomised  subjects  experienced  at  least 
one  AE  leading  to  study  termination.  Sudden  death  occurred  in  one  subject  during  the  run-in 
period in study 0501. 
During  the  entire  co-administration  treatment  period,  62.9%  of  the  subjects  treated  with 
fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 20/40 mg co-administration reported at least one TEAE (TEAE 
related to study treatment for 23.0% of subjects), 6.7% of the subjects experienced at least one 
TESAE  (related  TESAE  for  1.0%  of  subjects)  and  14.0%  of  the  subjects  discontinued  the  study 
because  of  TEAEs.  The  frequency  of  different  adverse  events  has  been  coded  based  on  the 
system  organ  class  and  preferred  term.  There  were  10.1%  of  subjects  in  the  co-administration 
group  who  reported  AEs  that  classified  as  possibly  and  probably  treatment  related.  This  figure 
was 7.5% in the statin monotherapy group. Four events were reported with a frequency of >2% 
cut-off (predefined in the integrated analysis of safety) for the double blind period: increases in 
creatinine,  in  C-reactive  protein  (CRP),  in  Gamma  Glutamyl  Transferase  (GGT),  and  in  fasting 
glucose.  The  increase  in  creatinine  was  more  frequent  in  the  co-administration  group,  whereas 
increases  in  CRP  and  fasting  glucose  were  more  frequent  in  the  statin  monotherapy  group.  The 
comparison in the below table demonstrates that the difference between the patients randomised 
and non-randomised to statins.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 57/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Adverse events by SOC in the run-in period.  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
The  reporting  of  serious  AEs  was  based  on  the  different  periods,  however,  the  following 
observations  can  be  made:  In  the  run  in  period  (with  statins),  SAEs  were  reported  in  14 
randomized  subjects  (0.6%)  and  46  non-randomized  subjects  (0.9%)  but  without  a  meaningful 
difference between groups and majority were due to laboratory abnormalities.   
On hundred treatment emergent serious adverse events (TESAEs) were reported during the 24-
week double blind period with an overall frequency of 3.7% in both treatment groups. The organ 
distribution  of  these  serious  events  was  similar  across  the  groups.  Between  baseline  and  24 
weeks, 44 subjects (3.7%) experienced a TESAE in the co-administration group and 44 subjects 
(3.7%)  in  the  statins  groups.  The  most  common  TEAE  were  cardiac  disorders  (1.2%)  mainly 
myocardial infarction and angina pectoris along with liver function abnormalities. The incidence of 
cardiac  disorders  (MI  or  angina)  did  not  differ  between  groups  and  in  the  statin  monotherapy 
group; surgical disorders in 11 subjects were the most common AEs (mainly knee arthroplasty of 
hip surgery).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 58/70 
 
  
  
 
 
In the open extension period, 4.1% subjects (n=66) subjects experienced TEAEs. In the low dose 
group  (fenofibrate  145mg  +  simvastatin  20mg),  the  most  commonly  observed  were  laboratory 
abnormalities (including increased transaminases). In the fenofibrate 145mg + simvastatin 40mg 
subgroup, the most common TESAEs occurring between 24 and 52 weeks were cardiac disorders 
(11 subjects, 0.9%), common ones being angina and acute MI. Nine subjects experienced eight 
TESAEs  considered  as  related  to  study  treatment  by  the  investigator  (one  necrotizing 
pancreatitis,  one  gallbladder  empyema,  two  increased  CK,  one  metastatic  disease,  one  acute 
renal failure, one pleural effusion, one pulmonary embolism).  
Deaths  
There were 14 deaths in this clinical programme with 2474 patients randomised into the double 
blind 24 week treatment period and 1602 receiving the combination (co-administration) in the 28 
weeks open extension period; 
•  Nine  deaths  during  the  double  blind  treatment  period  (4  fatal  CV  events,  3  sudden 
deaths,  one  road  traffic  accident  and  one  homicide);  of  these  6  were  in  the  co-
administration group (0.5%) and 3 were in the statin monotherapy group( 0.3%) 
• 
Four subjects died during the open extension period (one each of sudden death, rupture 
of abdominal aortic aneurysm, suicide and unknown cause).  
None of these deaths were considered to be related to the study drugs. There were four deaths 
in study 0501, two in 0502, four in 0503 and four in 0504. Narrative descriptions of these have 
been included. 
AEs of special interest 
The  grouping  of  AEs  by  standardized  MedDRA  queries  did  not  seem  to  result  in  identifying 
potential  risk  for  muscle,  renal  and  hepatic  adverse  effects  beyond  what  would  be  expected 
based on the respective risks of fenofibrate and simvastatin monotherapies. For muscle effects, 
the standardized query showed a frequency of 2.2% in the co-administration group and 1.9% in 
the  statin  monotherapy  group  with  only  three  serious  events  in  total.  Myalgia  was  the  most 
commonly  reported  muscular  AE  although  its  frequency  was  below  2%.  Other  muscular 
signs/symptoms  were  uncommon.  No  cases  of  rhabdomyolysis  were  reported.  A  difference  was 
noted  between  co-administration  and  monotherapy  groups  for  renal  effects  with  a  frequency  of 
10.1  %  vs  4.6%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  creatinine  levels  which  was  predefined  to  be 
reported as AE with two elevations from baseline by 30µmol/L or more was the most common AE 
(10.0%  in  the  co-administration  group  and  4.4%  in  the  statin  monotherapy  group).  Hepatic 
disorders  showed  a  frequency  of  5.4%  in  the  co-administration  group  and  5.9%  in  the  statin 
monotherapy  group,  with  seven  serious  events  in  total.  There  was  no  case  of  concomitant 
increase in transaminase and total bilirubin levels above 1.5×ULN indicative of potentially severe 
liver  necrosis.  The  most  common  hepatic  disorder  was  increased  GGT  observed  in  3.7%  of 
subjects with co-administration and 3.5% with statin monotherapy, followed by increase in total 
bilirubin  levels,  which  had  incidence  two  times  higher  with  statin  monotherapy  than  with  co-
administration.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 59/70 
 
  
  
Laboratory findings 
The  laboratory  findings  or  abnormalities  formed  the  commonest  AEs  especially  in  the  run-in 
period  and  was  higher  in  the  non-randomised  group  overall.  The  important  or  common 
laboratory  abnormalities  were  elevation  of  creatinine  kinase  (CK)  enzyme,  elevated 
transaminases  (AST  and  ALT)  and  lastly  elevated  plasma/serum  creatinine  values.  The  CK 
elevation  >10×ULN  were  infrequent  in  the  clinical  programme  with  an  upper  limit  of  95% 
confidence interval of its frequency below 1% in either treatment period. Increase >5xULN was 
noted  in  1.5%  but  did  not  differ  between  groups. The  AST  elevation  >3xULN  occurred  with  the 
same frequency across groups but differed marginally between treatment periods. Elevations of 
ALT>3xULN were twice as common with the co-administration during the DB period as compared 
with  statin  monotherapy.  Cases  of  transaminase  elevation  >5×ULN  were  infrequent  with  an 
upper  limit  of  95%  CI  not  exceeding  1.1%.  None  of  these  cases  were  associated  with 
concomitant elevation of total bilirubin.  
Elevation of creatinine is of some interest and is an expected phenomenon with fenofibrate, as it 
was  observed  in  the  previous  fenofibrate  trials  including  ACCORD  lipid  and  FIELD  trials.  The 
mean  creatinine  level  increased  after  the  first  six  weeks  of  co-administration  (as  expected  for 
fenofibrate)  and  remained  approximately  8  µmol/L higher  than  with  statin  monotherapy.  In  the 
open extension period, the transition from statin monotherapy to co-administration of fenofibrate 
and  simvastatin  induced  the  same  shift  in  creatinine  levels  six  weeks  later,  whereas  creatinine 
levels  remained  in  plateau  when  co-administration  was  continued.  Except  for  two  cases  in  the 
open  extension  phases,  none  of  these  cases  resulted  in  acute  renal  failure.  Creatinine  levels  of 
177µmol/L  or  higher  were  measured  in  22  cases  (0.3%)  during  statin  run-in,  19  cases  (0.8%) 
during  the  double-blind  period  (including  13  cases  (1.1%)  with  co-administration  and  six  cases 
(0.5%)  with  statin  monotherapy)  and  18  cases  (1.1%)  during  the  open  extension  period. 
Interestingly, creatinine and ALT elevations appeared to be related to gender (more in females) 
in both co-administration and monotherapy groups during the double blind period. Based on the 
FIELD  study  results,  slightly  larger  increments  in  creatinine  levels  (10-12  µmol/L)  was 
maintained  over  5  years  on  treatment  with  fenofibrate.  This  shift  was  not  considered  to  be 
associated with harm. 
Safety in special populations 
In this phase 3 programme, there are no data available for subjects with hepatic dysfunction or 
paediatric populations.  
Increases  in  creatinine  levels,  defined in  the  protocol  as  increase  from  baseline  by  30µmol/L  or 
more, were more frequent in subjects aged 65 years or above in each assigned treatment group; 
the  frequency  was  higher  in  those  with  reduced  eGFR.  Patients  with  significant  renal  disease 
were  excluded  and  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal  disease  were  included  in  the  original 
clinical  studies.  Therefore,  the  use  of  Cholib  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  is 
contraindicated  and  dosing  recommendations  are  given  in  the  SmPC  for  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate renal impairment.  
There  were  no  meaningful  differences 
in  GGT,  CRP  and  glucose  elevation  between 
subpopulations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 60/70 
 
  
  
 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The applicant has taken the view that all interactions listed in the product literatures of the two 
active substances/monotherapies are applicable and as these products are established in clinical 
use, it was considered that new interaction studies were not required. Accordingly, the proposed 
product label includes most of the interactions listed for both agents. The RMP adequately details 
the interaction related actions and activities proposed for risk minimisation. 
Of  interest  is  the  interaction  between  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  resulting  in  approximately 
40% reduction in AUC of simvastatin acid. This issue and its potential unfavourable effect on the 
overall benefit/risk of Cholib are discussed in the section on Pharmacokinetic drug interactions. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The overall rate of discontinuations for any AE was higher with co-administration (7.2% with co-
administration and 3.8% with statin monotherapy). The most common reason was  found in the 
SOC Investigations (3.8% with co-administration and 1.3% with statin monotherapy) followed by 
the  SOC  Gastrointestinal  Disorders  (0.9  %  with  co-administration  and  0.6%  with  statin 
monotherapy).  The  most  frequent  PT  mentioned  as  reason  for  discontinuation  was  increased 
creatinine  levels  (3.2 %  with  co-administration  and 0.8%  with  statin  monotherapy)  followed  by 
myalgia (0.6% in each treatment group). The two-time higher frequency of discontinuations with 
co-administration  was  driven  by  withdrawal  for  PT  Increased  creatinine,  whereas  the  rate  of 
discontinuations  for  PTs  Increased  creatine  kinase  (CK),  myalgia  or  HLT  liver  function  test 
analysis (LFTs) were below 1%. 
Post marketing experience 
There is currently no post marketing experience with Cholib, since it has not been marketed 
yet. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety of fenofibrate and simvastatin co-administration is based on the analyses of:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
four  double-blind  studies  which  randomized  2,474  subjects  with  mixed  dyslipidemia  at 
high  risk  of  cardiovascular  disease  to  co-administration  of  fenofibrate  145  mg  and 
simvastatin  20  to  40  mg  for  up  to  six  months,  with  a  follow-up  to  one  year  of  979  of 
these subjects,  
five  double-blind  studies  of  three  months  to  one  year  duration  using  fenofibrate  or 
fenofibric acid in 2,420 subjects with mixed or combined hyperlipidemia,  
safety  databases  over  the  10-year  period  1998-2007  with  regard  to  muscle,  renal  and 
hepatic AEs, 
the  ACCORD  lipid  study  in  5,518  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  with 
administration of fenofibrate and simvastatin or simvastatin monotherapy for an average 
5-year follow-up.  
The overall exposure of subjects is considered acceptable for the proposed therapeutic indication. 
Most  of  the  premature  study  withdrawals  were  due  to  clinical  or  laboratory  TEAEs,  e.g. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 61/70 
 
  
  
consecutive  elevations  of  creatinine  levels (>30µmol/L)  from  baseline.    In  general,  the  adverse 
events rates were higher for the combination (fenofibrate/simvastatin) in comparison with statin 
monotherapy.  A  relationship  with  the  dose  was  observed  with  fenofibrate  145mg/simvastatin 
40mg  showing  numerically  higher  AEs  than  the  fenofibrate  145mg/simvastatin  20mg  co-
administration. Overall, the frequency of TEAES was approximately 63% over the year. There are 
differences between studies in the reporting of AEs and this is likely to be related, amongst other 
factors,  to  the  statin  used.  The  common  adverse  events  described  here  have  been  known  and 
recognised before. The data set does not indicate significant differences in AEs of special interest 
in  the  two  groups,  except  for  increased  creatinine  and  increase  ALT.  These  findings  are  of 
interest in patients with kidney and liver impairments, but the difference between monotherapy 
and  co-administration  is  small.  Adequate  advice  has  been  included  in  the  SmPC  of  Cholib.  The 
findings  in  relation  to  muscle  disorders  showed  no  difference  between  the  co-administration  of 
fenofibrate and simvastatin and the use of simvastatin alone, which is reassuring. The frequency 
of TESAEs was not concerning in either the double blind or the open extension periods. In the DB 
periods, the two groups did not differ significantly. The number of deaths is not of concern. Small 
differences between groups within the 4 studies were noted but none could be ascribed causally 
to the study drugs. This finding is unsurprising and given that the population was at high risk of 
CV events, these differences are not considered relevant.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  co-administration  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  is  considered 
acceptable. The adverse events specific to the sub-population with impaired renal and/or hepatic 
function  are  captured  in  the  SmPC  of  Cholib  and  adequately  inform  the  prescribing  physicians. 
There  is  a  potential  under-detection/under-reporting  of  muscle  symptoms  but  this  is  not 
considered to be a major concern due to the extensive use and knowledge of the two agents. The 
issues  relating  to  identification  of  risk  and  risk  minimisation  are  satisfactorily  addressed  in  the 
RMP.  The  interaction  between  simvastatin  and  fenofibrate  with  resultant  reduction  in  AUC  of 
simvastatin acid by around 40% was addressed. Namely, the applicant attempted to resolve the 
impact of this on the long-term effects of simvastatin, and address whether there is a potential 
for mitigation of the expected benefits of simvastatin in the high risk population purely due to the 
administration  of  the  FDC,  in  part  by  demonstrating  that  the  interaction  is  present  to  an 
apparently  similar  degree  for  the  free  association  administered  at  different  times.  The  ACCORD 
study provides further supportive information to address the residual concerns and the applicant 
mitigates the risk by restricting the therapeutic indication, which is considered acceptable and is 
agreed by the CHMP.   
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 62/70 
 
  
  
the legislative requirements.    
2.8.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considers by consensus decision that the risk management system for the fixed 
dose combination of fenofibrate and simvastatin (Cholib) is acceptable. 
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
•  Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Cholelithiasis 
Pancreatitis 
Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis 
Drug-induced hepatitis 
Elevations in serum creatinine 
Photosensitivity 
Venous thromboembolic disease 
New onset diabetes mellitus and 
hyperglycaemia 
Important potential risks 
Increased risk of Major Adverse Cardiac Events 
Missing information 
in women on combined treatment 
Off-label use (in particular, initial prescription 
in naïve patients) 
Increased blood homocysteine levels 
Children/adolescents (< 18 years) 
Pregnant/lactating women 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
Patients with hepatic insufficiency 
•  Pharmacovigilance plans 
Activity/Study 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status  
Date for 
title  
concerns 
addressed 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports 
Drug Utilisation 
To assess how the 
Off-label use (in 
Planned  
Regular updates will 
Study 
product is used in 
particular, initial 
(Category 3) 
clinical practice to 
prescription in 
be provided in 
PSURs 
ensure the labelling 
naïve patients) 
measures are 
sufficient to ensure 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 63/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Activity/Study 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status  
Date for 
title  
concerns 
addressed 
submission of 
interim or final 
reports 
appropriate use 
Randomized, 
Confirmation of 
Increased Risk 
Planned 
Final study report 
double-blind, 
a potential signal 
of Major 
31/01/2021 
placebo-
controlled 
identified in 
Adverse Cardiac 
subgroup analyses 
Events in 
clinical trial 
of ACCORD 
Women on 
(Category 3) 
Lipid data, and of 
Combined 
any clinical 
Treatment 
consequences 
thereof 
•  Risk minimisation measures 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed routine 
risk minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed 
indication. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet 
submitted by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as 
set out in the Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal 
products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
The proposal to use a combination of fenofibrate and a statin in individuals at high CV risk who 
respond  adequately  to  simvastatin  monotherapy  in  terms  of  LDL-C  and  do  not  reach  NCEP-III 
lipid goals for TGs and HDL-C change is justified in that low HDL-C has been noted to impact the 
residual CV risk in those subjects with mixed dyslipidemias. The clinical development programme 
aimed  to  achieve  reduction  in  TGs  and  an  increase  in  HDL-C  in  a  population  that  has  received 
simvastatin  at  a  given  dose.  Four  specific  pivotal  trials  were  conducted  comparing  the 
combination  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin  with  different  statins  in  order  to  have  consolidated 
dataset  that  could  prove  the  value  of  the  fenofibrate+simvastatin  combination  in  two  dosage 
strengths.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 64/70 
 
  
  
 
 
In  all  studies,  the  aim  of  reducing  TGs  significantly  was  achieved.  This  was  greater  with  the 
combination  (FDC  or  coadministered  fenofibrate  +simvastatin)  than  with  the  comparator  statin 
(simvastatin in 0501 & 0502, atorvastatin in 0503 and pravastatin in 0504). The change in HDL-
C  with  the  combination  was  also  greater  than  the  statin  alone  in  0501,  0502  and  0504.  Other 
secondary  end  points  also  showed  reduction  (non-HDL-C,  Apo  B,  Apo-A1  and  Apo  AII,  etc).  
Thus, the beneficial effect of adding the fibrate component to statin treatment in order to achieve 
biochemical control is considered validated and applies equally to the clinical trial population and 
the proposed therapeutic indication. These results are supported by other published datasets that 
used  smaller  groups,  as  well  as  by  large  phase  III  clinical  trials  such  as  ACCORD-  LIPID  and 
FIELD trials.  The effects on TG and HDL-C levels may be understood to reduce the residual CV 
risk. It is recognised that the fibrates are indicated in this manner and are used to achieve these 
therapeutic  goals  in  clinical  practice.  An  additional  potential  advantage  of  the  combination 
therapy is one of compliance.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Whilst  an  effect  on  TGs  and  HDL-C  levels  was  established,  the  majority  of  trials  failed  to  meet 
the  pre-specified  non-inferiority  margin  of  4%  for  LDL-C  reduction.  There  were  consistent 
treatment-by-gender  interactions  i.e.,  only  females  appeared  to  meet  the  margins  in  studies 
0501,  0502  and  0503,  which  complicated  the  interpretation  of  the  trials.    Furthermore,  a 
substance  interaction  was  noted  between  the  two  components,  leading  to  a  reduction  of 
exposure  to  simvastatin  acid  by  approximately  30-40%.  This  substance  interaction  is  not  only 
relevant for the fixed dose combination but also for the free associations used in clinical practice.   
The  treatment  by  gender  interaction  finding  remains  to  be  fully  explained,  but  in  light  of  the 
beneficial  effects  on  biochemical  parameters  in  both  males  and  females  this  lack  of 
understanding is no reason for objection.  Indeed the totality of evidence is reassuring such that 
not  only  will  the  fibrate  component  benefit  HDL-C  and  TG  levels,  but  efficacy  on  LDL-C  will  be 
exerted  by  the  combination.    In  respect  of  the  substance  interaction,  long-term  data  from 
ACCORD  provide  reassurance  that  simvastatin  can  exert  its  effect  on  LDL-C  in  the  presence  of 
fenofibrate  and  no  difference  in  mean  LDL-C  levels  were  noted  in  the  two  arms  possibly 
suggesting that interaction did not influence mean LDL-C levels.  The CHMP considered that this 
issue  is  not  significant  in  light  of  the  clinical  data,  including  the  data  from  ACCORD,  and  the 
restricted indication.  
Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  proposed  therapeutic  indication  is  based  on  biochemical 
parameters alone, it is uncertain whether the combination offers any reduction of clinical events 
in comparison to treatment with a statin alone, since this aspect was not studied in the current 
development  programme  using  the  FDC.  The  ACCORD  and  FIELD  trials  have  not  demonstrated 
any  outcome  benefit  in  terms  of  overall  mortality  in  the  entire  trial  population  but  subgroup 
analyses suggest that in specified subset of patients, the expected benefit can be observed. The 
main claim from ACCORD trial, that there was a reduction of CV events in 17% of the population, 
is  derived  from  post-hoc  analysis.    Nevertheless,  in  the  end  this  is  an  uncertainty  that  impacts 
the decision to prescribe the medicine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 65/70 
 
  
  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Within  the  development  programme,  there  were  few  new  adverse  events  and  those  observed 
were consistent with the current level of knowledge of the mono-components.  The commonest 
AEs  were  laboratory  abnormalities;  of  which  the  increase  in  creatinine  level  was  the  most 
prominent.  The  effect  of  fenofibrate  on  creatinine  is  well  documented  and  there  were  very  few 
patients who progressed to acute or chronic renal failure, which is considered reassuring by the 
CHMP.  No  increase  in  muscle  toxicity  or  rhabdomyolysis  was  reported  but  this  may  have  been 
due to the relatively small size of the database. The frequency of AEs did not differ between the 
co-administration and statin monotherapy in any one study but differed between studies; lowest 
in  0503  (approximately  20%  for  each  12  week  period)  and  highest  in  0502  (approximately 
33%). One hundred treatment emergent serious adverse events (TESAEs) were reported during 
the 24-week double blind period with an overall frequency of 3.7% in both treatment groups. For 
muscle  effects,  the  standardised  query  showed  a  frequency  of  2.2%  in  the  co-administration 
group and 1.9% in the statin monotherapy group with only three serious events in total. Myalgia 
was  the  most  commonly  reported  muscular  AE  although  its  frequency  was  below  2%.  Other 
muscular  signs/symptoms  were  uncommon.  No  cases  of  rhabdomyolysis  were  reported.  There 
were  14  deaths  in  this  clinical  programme  with  2474  patients  randomised  into  the  double  blind 
24-week treatment period and 1602 receiving the combination (via co-administration) in the 28-
weeks open extension period. Thus, no major issues with respect to AEs could be acknowledged. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The primary uncertainty of the fixed dose combination relates to the effect of the interaction in 
the  long  term.  While  there  are  issues  about  differential  efficacy,  based  on  M13-953  study,  the 
CHMP considered that the clinical importance of these interactions is small. The two agents have 
independent  claims  for  LDL-C  level  reductions;  fenofibrate  by  15-25%  by  lipolytic  mechanism 
and simvastatin by 20-35% in a dose dependent manner inhibiting the HMG Co-A reductase. If a 
complimentary  action  is  anticipated,  combined  effect  greater  than  the  individual  parts  should 
have been evident. However, such an effect is not seen in the pivotal studies, especially for the 
lower dose formulation and there is still at least a theoretical risk for reducing the effect of statin 
even in the controlled population. Nevertheless, it appears that the magnitude of the interaction 
is  comparable  to  that  observed  with  the  free  association  used  at  different  times,  and  this  is  an 
established therapeutic practice and hence, considered clinically manageable by the CHMP. 
There is a clinical evidence to suggest that statins as a class raise blood glucose in patients with 
high  risk  of  diabetes.  This  risk,  however,  is  outweighed  by  the  reduction  of  vascular  risk  with 
statins  and  therefore,  should  not  be  a  reason  for  stopping  statin  treatment. Given  the  fact  that 
both  components  cause  myopathy  and  rhabdomyolysis  by  different  mechanisms,  there  is  a 
possibility  that  the  incidence  of  such  effect  could  be  increased  with  the  fixed  combination 
product. The homocysteine levels are known to increase with the use of fenofibrate and these are 
associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  CV  events,  venous  thromboembolic  events  and  possibly 
cognitive  disorders  and  bone  fractures.  Increases  in  homocysteine  levels  have  also  been 
associated  with  higher  levels  of  serum  creatinine.  Venous  thromboembolic  disease  is  thus 
appropriately listed in the RMP of Cholib. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 66/70 
 
  
  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The favourable effects, such as the significant reduction of triglycerides or the increase in HDL-C 
levels and thus, the residual risk in those patients who have an adequate response on LDL-C to 
simvastatin monotherapy, would be the useful additions in the high-risk population patients. The 
most  crucial  aspect of  this  effect  is  the evaluation  of  whether  these  will  function  as  appropriate 
surrogates  for  clinical  outcomes.    It  is  currently  recognised  that  fibrates  are  indicated  in  this 
manner  and  are  used  to  achieve  these goals  in  clinical  practice.  In  relation to  effects  on  HDL-C 
and TG levels, maintaining control of LDL-C is of greatest importance since the surrogacy of this 
parameter  has  been  fully  established.  Regarding  the  unfavourable  effects,  both  compounds  are 
associated with adverse effects as expected for the combination product and no new events were 
identified during the current development programme.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The  combination  of  fenofibrate  and  simvastatin,  at  the  dose  strengths  proposed,  has  a  clinical 
rationale  and  indeed  the medicines  are  used together  in  clinical  practice.    The  clinical trial data 
confirm the expected effects of both components in terms of efficacy of lipid parameters and in 
terms  of  safety.    The  added  benefit  on  TG  and  HDL-C  for  adding  the  fibrate  component  offsets 
the additional toxicity. There are some uncertainties in relation to a pharmacokinetic interaction 
between  substances,  but  this  also  impacts  the  free  association  of  these  medicines.    The 
published  data,  in  particular  from  ACCORD,  put  the  clinical  trial  data  into  some  clinical  context 
and offers reassurance that the substance interaction does not have important consequences on 
control  of  LDL-C  levels  in  the  longer  term.    Risk-benefit  of  Cholib  is  positive  for  the  proposed 
indication. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by 
majority decision that the risk-benefit balance of Cholib indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet 
and  exercise  in  high  cardiovascular  risk  adult  patients  with  mixed  dyslipidaemia  to  reduce 
triglycerides  and  increase  HDL - C  levels  when  LDL - C  levels  are  adequately  controlled  with 
the corresponding dose of simvastatin monotherapy, 
is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation subject 
to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 67/70 
 
  
  
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product  within six  months  following  authorisation.  Subsequently,  the  marketing  authorisation 
holder  shall  submit  periodic  safety  update  reports  for  this  product  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Divergent positions to the majority recommendation are appended to this report. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 68/70 
 
  
  
  
 
 
APPENDIX 
DIVERGENT POSITION 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 69/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent Positions 
The  undersigned  members  of  CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the  CHMP’s  opinion  recommending  the 
granting of a Marketing Authorisation for Cholib. 
The reasons for divergent opinion were as follows: 
Whilst  the  combination  has  a  clinical  rationale  and  whilst  the  fibrate  component  has 
demonstrated a beneficial effect on HDL-C and TG levels, uncertainty remains as to whether the 
same magnitude of effect on LDL-C will be retained by Cholib following a switch from simvastatin 
monotherapy.  In particular: 
•        there  is  a pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  the  two  substances,  characterised  in 
relatively  small  clinical  pharmacology  studies  that  measured  only  the  impact  on  the 
parent compound and the major active metabolite.  The mechanism for the interaction is 
not understood. 
•        there  is  a  formulation  effect  with  failure  to  show  bioequivalence  for  the  Cmax  of  the 
parent compound for the lower dose strength. 
•        the clinical data presented in the dossier do not relate directly to the patient population 
in  whom  LDL-C  levels  are  already  controlled  by  the  corresponding  dose  of  simvastatin, 
and  are  complicated  to  interpret  because  of  failure  to  meet  the  pre-specified  non-
inferiority margins and a magnitude of treatment effect that differs by gender.  
Whilst  the  clinical  impact  of  these  uncertainties  is  potentially  small,  there  are  only  marginal 
benefits  for  a  fixed  dose  combination  compared  to  concomitant  administration;  indeed,  any 
reduced  flexibility  for  titration  may  be  detrimental  to  patient  management  in  light  of  the  above 
uncertainties. 
London, 27 June 2013 
……………………………..……………  
……………………………..……………  
Robert Hemmings (Co-opted member)   
Alar Irs (Estonia) 
……………………………..…………… 
…….………………………..………… 
Pierre Demolis (France)  
Nevenka Trsinar (Slovenia) 
……………………………..…………… 
……………………………..…………… 
Agnes Gyurasics (Hungary) 
Ian Hudson (United Kingdom)   
……………………………..…………… 
Nela Vilceanu (Romania) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/308856/2013 
Page 70/70 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
