European Medicines Agency 
London, 23 February 2010 
Doc. Ref: EMA/CHMP/259544/2010  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
 Cholestagel 
International non-proprietary name:  
colesevelam  
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000512/II/0014 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Colesevelam is a non-absorbed, lipid-lowering polymer that binds bile acids in the intestine, impeding 
their reabsorption. Cholesterol is the sole precursor of bile acids. During normal digestion, bile acids 
are secreted into the intestine. A major portion of bile acids is then absorbed from the intestinal tract 
and  returned  to  the  liver  via  the  enterohepatic  circulation.  The  LDL-C  lowering  mechanism  of  bile 
acid sequestrants has been previously established as follows: As the bile acid pool becomes depleted, 
the  hepatic  enzyme,  cholesterol  7-α-hydroxylase,  is  upregulated,  which  increases  the  conversion  of 
cholesterol to bile acids. This causes an increased demand for cholesterol in the liver cells, resulting in 
the  dual  effects  of  increasing  transcription  and  activity  of  the  cholesterol  biosynthetic  enzyme, 
hydroxymethyl-glutaryl-coenzyme  A  (HMG-CoA)  reductase,  and  increasing  the  number  of  hepatic 
LDL receptors. A concomitant increase in very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) synthesis can occur. 
These  compensatory  effects  result  in  increased  clearance  of  LDL-C  from  the  blood,  resulting  in 
decreased serum LDL-C levels. VLDL production may increase triglyceride levels. HDL cholesterol is 
generally unaffected or slightly increased. 
Therapeutic indication:  
Cholestagel co-administered with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) is indicated as 
adjunctive therapy to diet to provide an additive reduction in LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in 
patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia who are not adequately controlled with a statin alone. 
Cholestagel  as  monotherapy  is  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  to  diet  for  reduction  of  elevated 
total  and  LDL-cholesterol  in  patients  with  isolated  primary  hypercholesterolaemia,  in  whom  a 
statin is considered inappropriate or is not well tolerated. 
The MAH has submitted a type II variation to extend the indication with the addition of Cholestagel as 
a third-line treatment option for patients with severe forms of primary hypercholesterolaemia who are 
not adequately controlled on the combination of a statin and ezetimibe, and the addition of Cholestagel 
as combination therapy with ezetimibe in patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia whom a statin 
is considered inappropriate or is not well-tolerated.  
The amended indication:  
Cholestagel co-administered with a 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) 
reductase inhibitor (statin) is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to provide an additive 
reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in adult patients with primary 
hypercholesterolaemia who are not adequately controlled with a statin alone. 
Cholestagel as monotherapy is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for reduction of elevated 
total-cholesterol and LDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, in whom a 
statin is considered inappropriate or is not well-tolerated. 
Cholestagel can also be used in combination with ezetimibe, with or without a statin, in adult 
patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia, including patients with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia (see section 5.1). 
The  requested  variation  is  based  on  the  results  of  the  European  study  CHOL00107,  a  phase  IV 
randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group,  multicentre  study  of  colesevelam  as 
add-on therapy in patients with Familial Hypercholesterolaemia.  
In  addition,  results  of  the  US  study  WEL408,  a  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled,  parallel-group  study  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  colesevelam  in  combination  with 
ezetimibe  compared  to  ezetimibe  alone  in  patients  with  Primary  Hypercholesterolemia  were 
Page 2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
submitted.  Results  of  this  study  have  also  been  assessed  in  2008  as  part  of  the  variation 
EMEA/H/C/000512/II/008, but could not be included in section 5.1 of the SPC as the information was 
not covered by the indication approved at the time.  
Taking  into  account  this  new  indication  the  Paediatric  Committee  granted  a  positive  opinion  on 
compliance  with  the  paediatric  investigation  plan  in  July  2009.  A  previously  conducted  paediatric 
trial,  WEL410,  has  been  assessed  in  FUM007.2  (September  2009).  Relevant  information  from  this 
study has now been included in the SmPC. 
Furthermore, the MAH proposed to update section 4.5 of the SmPC with the information on the effect 
of Cholestagel on the bioavailability of lovastatin. 
Risk  Management  Plan  (version  1.0,  dated  05  November  2009)  has  been  submitted  and  assessed as 
part of this procedure.  
Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted, which is acceptable for this type of procedure. 
Environmental risk assessment 
An  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  (ERA)  plan  in  accordance  with  the  CHMP  guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  was  submitted.  The  MAH  provided  justifications  why  the  variation 
applied  for  does  not  lead  to  a  significant  increase  in  use  of  Cholestagel,  hence  why  an  ERA  is  not 
needed. The new indication shows the following changes: 
(cid:131)  The inclusion of ezetimibe in the indication increases the penetration factor.  
(cid:131)  The inclusion of heterozygous patients increases the penetration factor. 
The MAH justified that the increased use related to the above mentioned changes is not considered to 
result in any significant increase in the extent of use of Cholestagel since statins are the treatment of 
choice  for  patients  with  primary  hypercholesterolaemia,  followed  by  ezetimibe.  However,  it  is 
important  to  consider  whether  or  not  the  change  in  indication  will  lead  to  a  significant  increase  in 
environmental exposure. Furthermore, the MAH states that the current use of Cholestagel in the EU 
equates to 4.163 patient years (September 2008 - March 2009), the proposed indication changes will 
allow  use  of  Cholestagel  for  the  subpopulations  of  the  current  indication  that  are  not  adequately 
controlled  on  current  treatment,  and  no  change  to  the  environmental  risk  status  of  the  product  is 
envisaged.  The  CHMP  stated  that  the  applicant  has  not  addressed  the  reason  why  the  proposed 
indication  changes  would  not  result  in  a  significant  increase  compared  to  the  existing  situation. 
Moreover,  there  are  no  data  that  support  the  assumption  that  the  newly  included  subpopulations  are 
insignificant in size compared to the size of the already treated subpopulation (1.3% of the potential). 
Further  clarification  was  requested  to  address  the  potential  additional  environmental  strain  of 
colesevelam. 
In  their  response,  the  MAH  argued  that  the  patient  group  with  familial  hypercholesterolaemia  (FH) 
could be covered by the patient group suffering from primary hypercholesterolaemia and the subset of 
patients  covered  by  the  newly  proposed  indication  (subject  of  this  variation  procedure)  could  be 
considered part of the potential total patient population (based on the indications already approved). 
However,  the  CHMP  opposed  to  this  assumption  since  although  the  already  approved  indication 
covers the subset of patients that could receive ezetimibe (with or without a statin), this patient group 
will not start using Cholestagel in combination with ezetimibe (with or without a statin) unless the new 
indication is approved. The addition of the new indication opens the possibility for these patients to 
use Cholestagel and thus leads to a potential increase in use. This does not concern only the subset of 
patients with FH, but all adult patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia. It is necessary to clarify 
whether  the  population  using  Cholestagel  will increase  once  some  of the patients  now  on  ezetimibe 
will also be prescribed the combination with Cholestagel. The argument that patient group eligible for 
ezetimibe  monotherapy  or  statin/ezetimibe  combination  therapy  was  not  excluded  when  the  current 
indication was approved does not mean that the current market use of the Cholestagel already includes 
patients using ezetimibe and Cholestagel. Based on the CHMP guidance (EMEA/CHMP/4447/00), the 
Page 3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increase in use warrants the performance of an ERA due to expected increase in use and exposure. The 
applicant has provided a commitment to submit the documentation within a specified timeline. 
 Conclusions  
Based on the CHMP guidance (EMEA/CHMP/4447/00), the increase in use warrants the performance 
of an ERA. The applicant has provided a commitment to submit the documentation within a specified 
timeline. 
Clinical aspects 
Background 
This extension of indication is supported by data from two safety and efficacy studies conducted with 
colesevelam in combination with a statin and ezetimibe. The pivotal study CHOL00107 resulted from 
a follow-up measure (FUM) stipulated at the time of granting of the Marketing Autorisation (MA) for 
Cholestagel in the EU. The FUM required the performance a post-approval study of Cholestagel as an 
add-on  therapy  to  an  optimal  dose  of  statin  and  was  subsequently  amended  to  a  request  for  post-
approval  study  of  Cholestagel  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  colesevelam  hydrochloride 
added  to  a  maximal  tolerated  regimen  of  statin  and  ezetimibe  in  patients  with  familial 
hypercholesterolaemia. It was anticipated that the first patient would be enrolled in Q3 2007.  
The  second  study  WEL408  was  made  available  to  the  MAH  by  its  marketing  partner  company 
(Daiichi-Sankyo).  Daiichi-Sankyo  markets  colesevelam,  under  the  brand  name  Welchol®,  in  the 
United  States.  Cholestagel  and  Welchol  contain  the  same  active  pharmaceutical  ingredient 
(colesevelam), which makes up 75% of the total tablet weight and the bioequivalence between the two 
products has been agreed by the CHMP. Welchol was utilised in this study, the results of which were 
originally 
procedure 
(EMEA/H/C/000512/II/008)  when  it  was  concluded  that,  whilst  Study  WEL408  did  not  allow  a 
differentiation  between  the  isolated  effect  of  Cholestagel  added  to  ezetimibe,  or  to  ezetimibe  and  a 
statin,  it  does  show  the  potential  for  LDL-C  lowering  of  the  combined  treatment  of  ezetimibe  and 
Cholestagel and the added effect of Cholestagel. 
the  CHMP 
submitted 
variation 
previous 
part 
as 
of 
to 
a 
Clinical efficacy 
The  current  type  II  variation  to  extend  the  indication  of  Cholestagel  is  supported  by  two  clinical 
studies  CHOL00107  and  WEL408,  and  a  justification  for  changing  the  recommended  maintenance 
dose and timing of concomitant administration of ezetimibe and colesevelam.  
MAIN STUDIES 
CHOL00107 
The objectives of this study in FH were: 
1. Assessment of colesevelam efficacy added to a maximal tolerated and stable regimen of statin and 
ezetimibe in further decreasing the LDL cholesterol level in terms of additional percentage decrease 
and in terms of reaching below target level of LDL cholesterol. 
2.  Evaluation  of  safety  and  tolerability  of  colesevelam  added  to  a  maximal  tolerated  and  stable 
regimen of statin and ezetimibe. 
Patients  
Patients were included when the age was between 18 and 75 years, a clinical diagnosis of FH defined 
as EITHER:  
a) Presence of a documented LDL-receptor mutation OR  
b)  History  of  untreated  LDL  cholesterol  level  above  the  95th  percentile  for  sex  and  age  in 
combination  with  documentation  of  at  least  1  of  the  following:  Presence  of  typical  tendon 
xanthomas in the patient or first degree relative, LDL cholesterol level above the 95th percentile 
for age and sex in a first degree relative, proven coronary artery disease in the patient or in a 
first degree relative under the age of 60 years. 
Page 4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients must have been provided and undergone lifestyle changes for more than 6 months at time of 
screening  and  treated  for  at  least  3  consecutive  months  with  a  lipid-lowering  treatment  regimen 
consisting of a maximal tolerated combination of a statin with ezetimibe and still above their target for 
LDL cholesterol being 2.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL). 
syndrome,  obstructive 
Patients were excluded if they had amongst others: a known allergy to any of the components used in 
colesevelam  or  placebo,  a  bowel  or  biliary  obstruction,  secondary  causes  of  hypercholesterolaemia,  
dysproteinaemia,  hypothyroidism,  nephrotic 
liver  disease,  other 
pharmacological  therapies,  alcoholism,  triglyceride  level  of  >  3.4  mmol/L,  dysphagia,  swallowing 
inflammatory  bowel  disease,  or  major 
disorders,  severe  gastrointestinal  motility  disorders, 
gastrointestinal  tract  surgery,  undergone  LDL-apheresis  within  1  year  prior  to  the  screening  visit 
and/or  need  to  undergo  LDL-apheresis,  active  liver  disease  or  unexplained  persistent  elevations  in 
transaminases,  fenofibrates  or  on  concomitant  cholestyramine  as  this  will  affect  the  area  under  the 
curve  of  ezetimibe,  poorly-controlled  diabetes,  concurrent  congestive  heart  failure,  life-threatening 
ventricular  arrhythmias,  unstable  angina,  recent  myocardial  infarction,  or  patients  undergoing 
haemodialysis.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  appropriate  inclusion  and  exclusion criteria  were  used to 
evaluate the objectives of this trial.  
Of particular importance is that patients were on maximal tolerated dose of statin with ezetimibe and 
still  above  the  LDL-C  target  level  for  an  appropriate  duration.  The  CHMP  requested  a  clarification 
whether  patients  at  baseline  could  indeed  be  considered  on  maximal  lipid  lowering  therapy  in  this 
study. In response, adequate data supporting the high and stable baseline doses of statin were provided 
and the issue was considered resolved. 
Design  
This  was  a  phase  IV,  prospective,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group, 
multicentre  study.  Colesevelam  was  administered  to  patients  with  FH  as  add-on  therapy  to  a 
maximally tolerated and stable regimen of a statin and ezetimibe, on which their LDL cholesterol level 
was still above their target (for either primary or secondary prevention). The study consisted of a 4-
week  screening  run-in  period  to  assess  the  stability  of  the  lipid-lowering  effect  of  the  statin  and 
ezetimibe combination treatment the patient had been on for at least 3 months. The double-blind 1:1 
ratio randomization (40 patients per group) phase study treatment consisted of a 12-week period of 6 
tablets daily either with colesevelam (625 mg per tablet) or matching placebo. In addition to the study 
treatment, each patient was instructed to continue to take their existing stable and maximal tolerated 
dose  of  statin  and  ezetimibe  as  normal.  After  the  12-week  double-blind  period,  patients  began  the 
open-label phase of the study. The study design was deemed appropriate for evaluating the efficacy of 
colesevelam compared to placebo on a maximum tolerated statin/ezetimibe dose. 
Design of study CHOL00107 
Efficacy evaluation 
Page 5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary  endpoint:  difference  between  colesevelam  and  placebo  treatment  groups  for  percentage 
change in LDL cholesterol from baseline at week 6. 
Secondary endpoints:  
-  LDL cholesterol < 2.5 mmol/L (goal rate) 
-  ≥ 15% decrease in LDL cholesterol level (responder rate) 
-  %  change  from  baseline  at  weeks  6  and  12  for  high-density  lipoprotein  (HDL)  cholesterol, 
total  cholesterol,  apolipoprotein  A1(ApoA1),  apolipoprotein  B  (ApoB),  ApoB/ApoA1  ratio 
and triglycerides, as well as LDL cholesterol at week 12 only 
-  The absolute change from baseline at weeks 6 and 12 for HbA1c, highly sensitive C-reactive 
protein (hsCRP) and fasting glucose  
Primary and secondary endpoints are considered appropriate, although goal rate is the most important 
secondary endpoint as it is also included in the objectives of the trial. 
Patient demographics at baseline 
There  were  86  patients  (62%  of  screened  patients)  randomised  to  study  treatment;  45  (52%)  to 
colesevelam  and  41  (48%)  to  placebo.  Eighty  patients  completed  the  week  12  visit:  42  in  the 
colesevelam group and 38 in the placebo group. For the 6 randomised patients who did not complete 
the double-blind phase, 5 patients discontinued due to an AE. The mean (SD) treatment compliance 
was similar in each treatment group: 96.0% (9.07) and 95.1% (4.98) for patients in the colesevelam 
and  placebo  treatment  groups,  respectively.  Randomisation  was  thought  to  be  quite  successful, 
although more males were included in the placebo group. Treatment compliance and discontinuation 
were  similar  in  both  groups  and  are  unlikely  to  have  affected  the  study  results.  Half  of  the  patients 
were on a maximum statin dose with the majority treated with the more potent statins; atorvastatin and 
rosuvastatin.  
Maximal tolerated dose and maximal statin therapy duration 
The design of study CHOL00107 requested that patients be on a stable maximally tolerated dose of 
statin treatment plus 10 mg ezetimibe for a minimal duration of 3 months prior to screening. The dose 
of  ezetimibe  was  fixed  at  10  mg  in  study  CHOL00107  and  the  duration  of  background  ezetimibe 
treatment was on average 2.8 years prior to screening. The interpretation of maximally tolerated statin 
for a given patient was based on the opinion of the treating physician. 
In  practice,  from  the  86  randomised  patients,  68  (79%)  were  treated  with  maximal  lipid  lowering 
therapy consisting of either:  
a)  the  maximum  authorised  daily  dose  of  the  statin  prescribed  at  screening  [atorvastatin  80  mg/day 
(n=28), rosuvastatin 40 mg/day (n=21), or simvastatin 80 mg/day (n=6)] or, 
b) the maximally tolerated statin dose at screening owing to prior intolerance to a higher statin dose 
(n=13). 
From the 13 patients recognised as being on a maximally tolerated statin dose, 9 had previously not 
tolerated a higher dose of the same statin, and 4 had been intolerant to another statin at a higher dose. 
On average, the 68 patients on maximum authorised or tolerated statin treatment had received the dose 
they  continued  on  in  the  study  for  an  average  of  4.1  years  prior  to  study  entry.  Specifically,  the 
duration of background statin treatment is listed in following table: 
Of the remaining 18 patients (21%) who, notably, had also received their statin dose for an average of 
4.1 years prior to screening, 15 were identified as being on a sub-maximal daily dose of rosuvastatin 
(n=3; 20 mg), atorvastatin (n=9; 40 mg) and simvastatin (n=3; 40 mg). It is clear that these doses can 
also  be considered  to  be appropriately  high,  based  on  clinical  practice (as  described  below).  Only  3 
patients were treated with a low daily statin dose of either rosuvastatin (n=1; 5 mg), atorvastatin (n=1; 
20 mg) and simvastatin (n=1; 20 mg), without previously having been on a higher dose. 
Page 6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The addition of colesevelam on top of stable background treatment was considered to reflect clinical 
practice and therefore be more optimal compared with the more artificial approach of washing out all 
lipid lowering medication followed by stepwise titration of one specific statin followed by the addition 
of  ezetimibe.  The  judgement  of  the  physician  in  ensuring  that  a  patient  is  treated  with  a  stable 
maximally tolerated statin dose was considered to best reflect real clinical practice. The statin doses 
used  (either  maximal  lipid  lowering  treatment  (n=68/86)  or  submaximal  doses  (n=15/86))  are  much 
higher than statin doses used in clinical practice. In terms of combination therapy, statin doses used in 
study CHOL00107 are much higher than recommended in the UK NICE guidelines for treatment of 
primary  hypercholesterolaemia  (UK  NICE  Clinical  Guideline  67,  2008),  where  it  is  advised  to  add 
ezetimibe 10 mg to simvastatin 20 mg. The statin doses used in CHOL00107 reflect the need and aim 
to treat these patients with FH as aggressively as possible.  
In  conclusion,  the  majority  of  patients  (79  %)  received  either  a  maximum  authorized  or  maximum 
tolerated dose of a statin for duration of on average 4.1 years, and these doses exceed those used in the 
current clinical practice. 
Disposition of patients in study CHOL00107 
Baseline characteristics in study CHOL00107 
Page 7  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8  
 
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
For  the  primary  analysis,  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  at  α  =  0.05  was  conducted  with 
treatment group and centre as main effects. The least-squares (LS) means and differences of the LS 
means (including the 95% confidence interval of the difference and P-value) were provided. The ITT 
Population  was  used  as  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  population  with  the  PP  Population  as  a 
confirmative  measure.  The  proposed  and  conducted  statistical  methods  are  considered  sufficient  for 
calculating treatment effects of the primary and secondary endpoints. 
Efficacy results 
Colesevelam, as add-on therapy to a maximally-tolerated and stable regimen of a statin and ezetimibe, 
significantly  reduced  LDL  cholesterol  levels  compared  to  placebo  at  week  6  as  well  as  week  12  of 
treatment. The mean baseline LDL cholesterol level for both treatment groups was approximately 3.8 
mmol/L,  which  is  above  the  recommended  target  level  despite  maximally-tolerated  and  stable 
combination  lipid-lowering  therapy.  Furthermore,  although  only  available  for  27  patients,  the 
untreated level for LDL cholesterol was found to be quite high (LDL cholesterol: 8.0 mmol/L [SD = 
1.75]). Within each group of statins, colesevelam showed a comparable additional LDL-C reduction as 
seen as in the overall group of patients. 
Primary and most important secondary endpoints in study CHOL00107 
Parameter 
Colesevelam 
Placebo 
Difference 
in % change 
P value 
LDL-C (mmol/L) 
Goal rate n(%) 
(LDL-C <2.5 
mmol/L) 
Response rate 
n(%) 
(> 15% change 
LDL-C) 
HDL-C 
Total Cholesterol 
Triglycerides 
Mean (SD)  
3.9 (0.98) 
3.3 (0.78) 
3.4 (0.81) 
4 (9) 
4 (9) 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 12 
Week 6 
Week 12 
Week 6 
14 (33) 
Week 12 
13 (30) 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 12 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 12 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 12 
1.3 (0.36) 
1.3 (0.40) 
1.3 (0.35) 
5.8 (1.19) 
5.5 (1.17) 
5.4 (1.07) 
1.4 (0.77) 
1.7 (1.00) 
1.6 (1.07) 
∆ Mean 
%  
- 
-11.3 
-10.9 
-0.2 
+0.1 
-5.8 
-6.1 
+19.3 
+13.8 
Mean (SD)  
∆ Mean %  
3.8 (0.98) 
4.0 (1.10) 
3.8 (1.05) 
1 (3) 
1 (3) 
0 
3 (8) 
1.3 (0.31) 
1.3 (0.29) 
1.2 (0.31) 
5.6 (1.13) 
5.9 (1.25) 
5.7 (1.30) 
1.3 (0.60) 
1.3 (0.48) 
1.5 (0.65) 
+7.0 
+0.9 
-18.7 
-11.8 
+1.6 
-2.7 
+5.5 
+1.4 
+6.4 
+12.9 
-1.7 
+2.8 
-11.5 
-7.3 
+13.0 
+3.4 
<0.0001 
0.0001 
0.3606 
0.3624 
<0.0001 
0.0123 
0.5060 
0.3342 
0.0001 
0.0036 
0.0403 
0.6129 
There was no significant difference between treatment groups in terms of the number of patients able 
to reach the published target LDL cholesterol level for patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease, 
that being less than 2.5 mmol/L. There was however a significant difference in the number of patients 
able  to  achieve  a  target  treatment  response  of  at  least  a  15%  decrease  in  LDL  cholesterol  level  by 
week  6  and  12.  Total  cholesterol,  Apo-B,  and  hsCRP  were  significantly  reduced  while  HDL-C  and 
Apo-A1  were  not  significantly  different.  Patients  treated  with  colesevelam  in  this  study  showed 
increases in mean triglyceride levels at both weeks 6 and 12 compared to baseline.  
Conclusion  
Despite high dose statin therapy and additional ezetimibe therapy, the addition of colesevelam reduced 
LDL-C by 11% compared to placebo background therapy. This relative reduction in LDL-C is only 
slightly less than the 15-18% reduction seen in monotherapy and comparable to the effect in combined 
therapy  with  fenofibrate.  The  proportion  of  patients  (9%)  reaching  treatment  goal  (<2.5mmol/L)  is 
rather disappointing but can be explained by a mean absolute reduction in LDL-C levels of 0.5 mmol/l 
only and an average baseline LDL-C of 3.9 mmol/L. However, responder rates (≥15 % reduction in 
LDL-C levels) are somewhat better and the effect should be considered in the view that patients could 
be considered as treatment resistant since they are already on a maximum dose of statin and ezetimibe 
while  still  not  having  acceptable  LDL-C  levels.  In  conclusion,  a  nearly  additive  LDL-C  lowering 
Page 9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect is observed when colesevelam is added to a combined statin and ezetimibe therapy. This is in 
line with the complementary mechanism of action of colesevelam to statin and ezetimibe. Effects on 
HDL-C (no change) and triglycerides (increased, although not significant at 12 weeks) are in line with 
earlier studies with colesevelam. The impact of the combined effect on lipid parameter is not known 
until hard endpoint studies would be conducted with colesevelam. 
low-density 
lipoprotein  cholesterol  (LDL-C) 
WEL408 
The  primary  objective  was  to  compare  the  effect  of  colesevelam  in  combination  with  ezetimibe  to 
in  patients  with  primary 
ezetimibe  alone  on 
hypercholesterolemia.  The  secondary  objectives  were  to  compare  the  effects  of  colesevelam  in 
combination  with  ezetimibe  to  ezetimibe  alone  on  triglycerides  (TG),  non-HDL-C,  HDL-C,  total 
cholesterol (TC), apo A-I, and apo B, on the percentage of patients who achieved LDL-C <100 mg/dL 
and LDL-C <70 mg/dL, and on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) in patients with primary 
hypercholesterolemia.  The  objective  of  period  II  (please  see  below)  of  the  randomized  treatment 
period  was  to compare  the  effects  of  colesevelam  in combination  with  ezetimibe  and simvastatin  to 
ezetimibe in combination with simvastatin. 
Patients  
Patients were included if they were 18-80 years of age, inclusive, with primary hypercholesterolemia. 
One week prior to randomization, patients must have had LDL-C ≥130 mg/dL and TG <400 mg/dL.  
Patients were excluded if they had amongst others: a history of intolerance to ezetimibe, simvastatin, 
or  the  combination  of  ezetimibe  and  simvastatin,  a  history  of  an  allergic  or  toxic  response  to 
colesevelam  hydrochloride  or  any  part  of  its  components,  a  history  of  dysphagia,  swallowing 
disorders,  or  intestinal  motility  disorder,  any  serious  disorder  including  pulmonary,  hepatic,  renal, 
gastrointestinal  (including  clinically  significant  malabsorption),  uncontrolled  endocrine/  metabolic, 
haematologic/oncologic  (within  the  last  5  years),  neurologic,  and  psychiatric  diseases  that  would 
interfere  with  the  conduct  of  the  study  or  interpretation  of  the  data.  The  CHMP  concluded  that 
appropriate inclusion and exclusion criteria were used to evaluate the objectives of this trial. 
Design  
This  was  a  multi-centre,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  study, 
consisting  of  a  4-  to  8-week  washout  period,  followed  by  a  10-week  treatment  period.  After  the 
washout  period,  eligible  patients  were  assigned  randomly  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  receive  either  blinded 
colesevelam  (3.75  g/day)  plus  open-label  ezetimibe (10  mg/day)  or  blinded  placebo  plus  open-label 
ezetimibe (10 mg/day) for 6 weeks. After the first 6 weeks of the randomized treatment period (Period 
I),  patients  added  open-label  simvastatin  (20  mg/day)  to  their  treatment  regimen  for  an  additional  4 
weeks  (Period  II).  They  continued  to  take  their  blinded  randomized  study  medication  of  Period  I 
during Period II.  
Design of study WEL408 
Page 10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Efficacy evaluation 
Primary endpoint: The primary efficacy parameter was the percent change in LDL-C from baseline to 
week 6. 
Secondary endpoints: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
change in LDL-C from baseline to week 6 endpoint 
change and percent change in LDL-C from baseline to week 10 endpoint 
changes  and  percent  changes  in  TG,  non-HDL-C,  HDL-C,  TC,  apo  A-I,  and  apo  B  from 
baseline to week 6 endpoint and week 10 endpoint 
changes in the ratios of TC/HDL-C, LDL-C/HDL-C, non-HDL-C/HDL-C, and apo B/apo A-I 
from baseline to week 6 endpoint and week 10 endpoint 
percentages of patients who achieved LDL-C <100 mg/dL, LDL-C <70 mg/dL, non-HDL-C 
<130 mg/dL, and non-HDL-C <100 mg/dL at week 6 endpoint and week 10 endpoint  
change and percent change in hsCRP from baseline to week 6 endpoint and week 10 endpoint. 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria used for evaluating the objectives of this trial were thought to be 
appropriate. The study design in period I was appropriate for evaluating the efficacy of colesevelam 
added  to  a  background  therapy  of  ezetimibe.    However,  the  second  period  of  the  study  is  not 
appropriate  to  study  the  additional  effect  of  colesevelam  to  a  background  therapy  of  a  statin  and 
ezetimibe  and  thus,  the  findings  of  period  II  are  therefore  considered  of  minor  importance  in 
comparison to the results of CHOL00107. Efficacy assessment and choice of primary and secondary 
outcome measures is considered appropriate. 
Patient demographics at baseline 
Following the washout/screening period, 86 patients were assigned randomly to treatment: 43 to the 
colesevelam  group  and  43  to  the  placebo  group.  Two  (4.7%)  patients  in  the  colesevelam  group 
withdrew from the study during period I due to an adverse event. One (2.3%) patient in the placebo 
group completed period I but did not enter period II (withdrawal of consent). One (2.3%) patient in the 
colesevelam group withdrew from the study during period II of the randomized treatment period due 
to  an  AE.  A  total  of  82  patients  completed  the  study:  40  (93.0%)  in  the  colesevelam  group  and  42 
(97.7%) in the placebo group. Mean percent compliance with study medication was similar for both 
treatment  groups  during  the  randomised  treatment  period.  Overall  mean  percent  compliance  with 
randomized study medication was 96.6% for the colesevelam group and 95.2% for the placebo group 
until week 10. Overall mean percent compliance with ezetimibe was 98.1% for the colesevelam group 
and  96.8%  for  the  placebo  group  until  week  10.  Overall  mean  percent  compliance  with  simvastatin 
(from week 6 to week 10) was 97.8% for the colesevelam group and 97.3% for the placebo group. 
Baseline characteristics of study WEL408 
Page 11  
 
 
 
Statistical analysis 
For  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  parameters, the  normality  assumption was  examined.  When 
significant departure from normality was observed, the analysis was performed using a Wilcoxon rank 
sum test. Otherwise, a mixed-effects Analysis of Covariance model with treatment as a fixed effect, 
centre  as  a  random  effect,  and  baseline  as  a  covariate  was  used.  The  least-squares  (LS)  means, 
standard errors, and corresponding 2-sided 95% confidence intervals were calculated for the treatment 
difference.  The  proposed  and  conducted  statistical  methods  are  considered  sufficient  for  calculating 
treatment effects of the primary and secondary endpoints. 
Efficacy results  
LDL-C was significantly different after 6 weeks of treatment between treatment groups. With the 
addition of simvastatin at week 6 no significant difference between treatment groups was found at 
week 10. At week 6, Apo-A1, Apo-B and total cholesterol were significantly reduced after 6 weeks 
while HDL-C, triglycerides, and hsCRP were not significantly different. At week 10, except for Apo-
A1, no other parameters including LDL-C were significantly different from placebo.  
Parameter 
Primary and most important secondary endpoints in study WEL408 
Difference 
in % change 
Placebo (background 
ezetimibe) (N=43) 
Colesevelam (N=43) 
LDL-C (mg/dL)  Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 10 
Week 6 
LDL-C <100 
mg/dL n(%) 
Mean (SD)  ∆ Mean %  Mean (SD)  
177 (30) 
118 (25) 
75 (26) 
8 (19) 
175 (33) 
137 (28) 
85 (27) 
1 (2.3) 
-32 
-57 
HDL-C 
Total 
Cholesterol 
Week 10 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 10 
Baseline 
36 (86) 
58 (14) 
59 (13) 
61 (13) 
264 (35) 
3.6 
7.7 
33 (77) 
58 (14) 
59 (15) 
58 (14) 
260 (39) 
∆ Mean %  
-21 
-51 
3.5 
4.6 
-11 
-5.4 
0.1 
2.8 
P value 
<0.001 
0.099 
0.015 
0.518 
0.967 
0.208 
Week 6 
208 (29) 
-21 
222 (33) 
-14 
-5.9 
0.002 
Page 12  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Triglycerides 
Week 10 
Baseline 
Week 6 
Week 10 
265 (36) 
137 (60) 
129 (82) 
113 (79) 
-39 
1.1 
-13 
260 (40) 
115 (79) 
115 (61) 
88 (43) 
-36 
2.9 
-28 
-2.6 
7.1 
9.2 
0.282 
0.248 
0.225 
Study WEL408 demonstrates that an additive LDL-C lowering effect is observed when colesevelam is 
combined with ezetimibe.  Triglycerides are negatively but statistically non-significantly affected by 
colesevelam  comedication.  Adding  simvastatin  to this  combination  seems  to  reduce  or level  out  the 
effect  of  colesevelam  in  this  triple  therapy.  This  conclusion  should  be  drawn  with  care  as  actually 
colesevelam  should  have  been  added  to  patients  on  a  stable  background  therapy  of  ezetimibe  and 
simvastatin. Efficacy has been demonstrated in study CHOL00107. Therefore, this data could lead to a 
third line indication in patients who cannot tolerate statins or for whom statins are contra-indicated and 
are inadequately controlled by ezetimibe monotherapy. However, some discrepancy is noticed in the 
efficacy between both studies when patients are on a triple therapy. In study WEL408 no significant 
change  was  found  in  LDL-C  lowering  in  patients  on  statin  and  ezetimibe  therapy,  while  in  study 
CHOL00107 this was significantly different with additional colesevelam therapy. Further clarification 
was requested by the CHMP. The combination treatment with colesevelam and ezetimibe resulted in 
an  additional  reduction  (-11%)  in  LDL-C  levels  compared  to  treatment  with  ezetemibe  alone.  The 
difference  of  11%  is  rather  small,  but  still  considered  clinically  relevant  for  the  intended  target 
population,  who  cannot  tolerate  or  for  whom  statins  are  contra-indicated  and  are  inadequately 
controlled  by  ezetimibe  monotherapy.  According 
their  respective  SmPCs,  colesevelam 
monotherapy  and  ezetimibe  monotherapy  lead  to  a  decrease  in  LDL-C  of  about  15%  and  19%, 
respectively.  Hence,  the  LDL-C  lowering  effect  of  the  ezetimibe  and  colesevelam  may  not  be 
described as” additive”, but rather as “additional”. The SmPC was updated accordingly. 
to 
Proposed posology changes 
Posology advice for intake of ezetimibe 
In  study  WEL408,  ezetimibe  was  advised  to  be  taken  at  bedtime,  while  colesevelam  needed  to  be 
taken  with  meals.  In  study  CHOL00107  no  intake  advice  was  given  as,  based  on  available  clinical 
studies  and  background  information  on  ezetimibe,  this  was  not  considered  necessary.  Based  on 
available  information  on  intake  patterns,  and  the  pharmacokinetics  and  background  information  for 
ezetimibe  described  hereafter,  it  is  concluded  that  no  dosing  advice  for  intake  with  ezetimibe  is 
required. 
Patterns of intake 
All but one clinical studies available and reviewed at the time of design of study CHOL00107 showed 
that the addition of colesevelam to ezetimibe (or vice versa) resulted in very  good (20%) additional 
LDL-C lowering. The a Knopp study advised on separate intake, and only showed a very small non-
significant  difference  in  LDL-C  reduction  between  ezetimibe  in  combination  with  colesevelam 
compared to ezetimibe with placebo. Another study, in which intake advice was not provided, results 
were  described  for  subgroups  of  patients  with  concomitant  and  with  separate  intake  of  colesevelam 
and ezetimibe. Both groups of patients achieved approximately 20% LDL-C reduction on addition of 
colesevelam. These above data support that colesevelam can be co-administered or dosed apart with 
ezetimibe, as proposed for Section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
Pharmacokinetics of ezetimibe 
Ezetimibe  is  a  prodrug  and  is  conjugated  in  the  intestine  and  liver,  with  the  effect  on  cholesterol 
absorption inhibition coming mainly from the conjugated form. The ezetimibe conjugate and prodrug 
are  excreted  by  the  liver  into  the  bile  and  undergo  entero-hepatic  circulation, meaning  that  separate 
intake cannot prevent a potential interaction of a drug that is combined with ezetimibe. Ezetimibe in 
the blood is measured as unconjugated and conjugated ezetimibe, denoted as total ezetimibe together. 
In  the  Knopp  study  mentioned  above  with  advice for  separate  intake  of  ezetimibe  and  colesevelam, 
limited pharmacokinetic sampling was done at regular study visits with blood samples being taken at 
unspecified  times  after  intake  of  either  ezetimibe  and  colesevelam.  No  statistically  significant 
difference was seen for ezetimibe pharmacokinetics during treatment with ezetimibe alone compared 
to treatment with ezetimibe and colesevelam (separate intake); although on average a decline of 20-
Page 13  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30% was noted, meaning that blood levels of total ezetimibe on combination treatment were 70-80% 
of the blood level on monotherapy. This ratio of treatment comparisons of 70-80% falls inside a range 
for AUC or Cmax of 50-200% which has been defined as negative for a potentially significant drug 
interaction.  Furthermore,  the  pharmacodynamic  results  showing  up  to  20%  additional  LDL-C 
lowering  in  case  of  colesevelam  added  to  ezetimibe  or  ezetimibe  added  to  colesevelam  (either  with 
separate or combined intake) do not suggest a clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction.  
Data  collected  during  Period  I  of  WEL408  on  the  combined  effect  of  ezetimibe  and  colesevelam 
showed an additive effect for the 2 drugs; the difference in LS mean percent decrease in LDL-C from 
baseline  for  the  combination  of  colesevelam  and  ezetimibe  of  32%  was  similar  to  the  decrease  that 
would be predicted if colesevelam and ezetimibe acted independently based on decreases of 15% and 
18% described in the respective SmPCs. Administration of ezetimibe would reduce the LDL-C to 82% 
of the original value followed by a further 15% upon administration of colesevelam, thus producing an 
overall decrease of 30% to bring the LDL-C to 70% of the original value and a 12% added-effect of 
colesevelam.  This  calculated  added-effect  of  12%  LDL-C-lowering  in  study  WEL408  with  separate 
intake  corresponds  well  with  the  added-effect  found  in  study  CHOL00107  without  intake  advice, 
supporting  the  view  that  no  clinically-relevant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  exists  with  either  intake 
pattern. 
The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  justification  provided  for  concomitant  dosing  of  ezetimibe  with 
colesevelam. It was demonstrated that in the retrospective small studies separate or concomitant intake 
did not influence outcome results. In addition, based on the pharmacokinetics results, it does not seem 
useful to separate dosing schedules because of the enterohepatic cycling of ezetemibe. The proposal to 
change the posology and drop the separated intake is therefore considered acceptable. 
Posology advice for maximal recommended dose in combination therapy 
The majority of the combination studies provided in the original MAA, including studies CHOL00107 
and WEL408, were performed with 6 tablets of colesevelam. In one combination study, all subgroups 
on  combination  treatment  received  4  tablets  of  Cholestagel  in  combination  with  lovastatin  10  mg, 
dosed  apart  or  together  (GTC-37-203).  In  addition,  in  1  subgroup  of  the  previously  submitted 
combination  study  (GTC-48-204),  a  lower  dose  of  4  tablets  per  day  was  used  in  combination  with 
simvastatin 20 mg, and efficacy and safety results comparable to the group on 6 tablets of colesevelam 
and  10  mg  simvastatin  were  seen.  This  is  the  only  combination  study  in  which  different  doses  of 
statins were combined with 4 or 6 tablets of Cholestagel. The safety data from this study do not show a 
difference  between  these  2  groups  on  either  4  or  6  tablets  of  Cholestagel.  Moreover,  for  all  studies 
executed with subgroups at different dose levels, a pooled analysis on AEs did not show a clear trend 
in  relation  to  dose,  especially  not  if  duration  of  exposure  was  also  taken  into  account.  With  the 
majority of the combination studies with a statin performed with 6 tablets, without clear trends in an 
increase of AEs compared to use of 4 tablets, it is possible that the recommended dose in combination 
therapies could be 6 tablets, instead of the 4 to 6 tablets currently advised. In Section 4.2 of the SmPC, 
the current label describes various statins that can be co-administered with colesevelam. Colesevelam 
does  not  affect  statin  absorption  and  the  additive  effect  of  colesevelam  on  top  of  statins  is  seen  for 
various statins even if co-administered. With combination treatment, an actual decrease in LDL-C is 
higher than that predicted based on clinical studies of the separate agents. It is therefore proposed to 
generalise  the  section  on  statin  intake  in  section  4.2  and  to  state  that  Cholestagel  can  be  co-
administered with or dosed apart from statins.  
The  CHMP  considered  the  potential  change  of  maintenance  dose  to  6  tablets  instead  of  the  current 
recommendation  of  4-6  tablets.  A  justification  based  on  the  most  commonly  used  dose  when 
colesevelam is given on top of statins in a number of presented clinical trials is provided. However, a 
clear  overview  of  data  showing  benefit  and  risk  of  the  two  different  dose  levels  used  has  not  been 
provided. Although a high dose may be required to reach an acceptable additive effect of colesevelam 
on top of statin, patients should not be unnecessarily treated with too high doses of a drug. The only 
study  directly  comparing  the  two  dose  levels  in  combination  therapy  with  statins  does  not  show 
different  efficacy  for  the  two  treatments.  Thus,  since  no  direct  comparison  is  possible,  the  current 
posology of 4-6 tablets should be maintained. 
Page 14  
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
CHOL00107 
Patient exposure  
There were 85 patients in the safety population, 45 (53%) in the colesevelam group and 40 (47%) in 
the  placebo  group.  For  both  treatment  groups,  the  median  duration  of  treatment  exposure  for  the 
double-blind phase was 84 days; the mean (SD) treatment duration in days for the colesevelam group 
was  80.8  (17.13)  and  for  the  placebo  group  was  82.5  (13.32).  However,  the  CHMP  expressed  their 
concern  that  the  small  patient  population  limits  the  assessment  of  the  safety  profile  of  colesevelam 
used in triple therapy.  
Adverse events  
During the double-blind phase, 27 patients (60%) in the colesevelam group and 21 patients (53%) in 
the  placebo  group  had  at  least  1  adverse  event.  For  patients  in  the  colesevelam  group,  the  most 
frequent  AEs  (≥  5%  of  patients)  by  SOC  occurred  in  the  gastrointestinal  disorders  (GI)  (27%), 
infections  and  infestations  (13%),  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (9%), 
musculoskeletal  and  connective tissue  disorders (9%)  and nervous  system  disorders  (7%). The  most 
frequently occurring AEs (≥ 5% of patients) were constipation (9%) and influenza (7%). For patients 
in  the  placebo  group,  the  most  frequent  AEs  (≥  5%  of  patients)  by  SOC  occurred  in  infections  and 
infestations (20%), gastrointestinal disorders (18%), musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
(15%), cardiac disorders (5%), nervous system disorders (5%), skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
(5%)  and  vascular  disorders  (5%).  The  most  frequently  occurring  AEs  (≥  5%  of  patients)  were 
nasopharyngitis (8%), constipation (5%), and tooth abscess (5%) and back pain (5%).  
Drug related adverse events in study CHOL00107 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
During the double-blind phase, 5 patients experienced AEs leading to discontinuation; 3 patients (7%) 
in  the  colesevelam  group  (disorder,  dizziness  and  nausea  (possibly  related);  myalgia  (unrelated); 
hyperchlohydria  (probably  related)  and  2  patients  (5%)  in  the  placebo  group  (severe  dyspepsia; 
(definitely related); nausea, myalgia, insomnia (probably-possible-unlikely related). The assessment of 
this  data  confirmed  that  the  usual  adverse  event  profile  associated  with  lipid  lowering  therapy  is 
observed. The only AEs that were more common in the colesevelam group were GI disorders.   
Serious adverse events/deaths  
No SAEs were reported during the double-blind phase in patients in the colesevelam group. During the 
double-blind phase, 1 SAE was reported in 1 patient from the placebo group. This patient experienced 
2 episodes of unstable angina, both events were considered by the investigator to not be related to the 
study medication. No deaths occurred. Although only one serious adverse event was reported and no 
deaths were reported, the CHMP considered the number of patients to small to draw any conclusions.   
Laboratory findings 
One  patient  in  the  colesevelam  group  had  a  mild  elevation  of  liver  enzymes  not  considered  to  be 
related  to  study  medication;  however,  due  to  a  small  number  of  patients  included  in  the  safety 
assessment, no firm conclusion on laboratory evaluation can be made by the CHMP.   
Page 15  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WEL408 
Patient exposure  
Mean  exposure  to  study  medication  was  similar  for  the  treatment  groups  during  the  randomised 
treatment  period  of  the  study:  67.1  days  for  the  colesevelam  group  and  69.8  days  for  the  placebo 
group.  Mean  exposure  to  ezetimibe  during  the  randomized  treatment  period  was  67.1  days  for  the 
colesevelam group and 69.8 days for the placebo group. Mean exposure to simvastatin during the last 
4 weeks of the randomized treatment period (Period II) was 26.9 days for the colesevelam group and 
27.9 days for the placebo group. However, the small patient population limits the CHMP’s assessment 
of the safety profile comprehensively of colesevelam used in dual therapy with ezetimibe. 
Adverse events  
The percentage of patients who experienced AEs during period I of the randomized treatment period 
was  higher  in  the  colesevelam  group  (65.1%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (34.9%).  Thirty  (69.8%) 
patients  in  the  colesevelam  group  and  20  (46.5%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  AEs 
during the randomized treatment period (week 0 to week 10). 
Overview of type of adverse events during study WEL408 
For  patients  in  the  colesevelam  group,  the  most  common  AEs  during  randomised  treatment  were 
gastrointestinal  disorders  (37.2%),  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders  (18.6%),  and 
investigations (16.3%). For patients in the placebo group, the most common AEs during randomized 
treatment  were  gastrointestinal  disorders  (11.6%),  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders 
(11.6%),  and  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  (11.6%).  The  incidence  of  AEs  classified  as 
investigations increased in both treatment groups during period II of the randomized treatment period 
when simvastatin was added to the treatment regimen. Fourteen (32.6%) patients in the colesevelam 
group  and  7  (16.3%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  an  AE  during  period  I  that  was 
considered by the investigator to be drug related. Sixteen (37.2%) patients in the colesevelam group 
and  8  (18.6%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  a  drug-related  AE  during  randomised 
treatment. 
Drug related adverse events in study WEL408 
Page 16  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Three (7.0%) patients in the colesevelam group and no patients in the placebo group withdrew from 
the  study  due  to  an  AE:  2  patients  during  period  I  and  one  patient  during  period  II.  The  most 
frequently  observed  adverse  events  are  well  known  adverse  events  of  colesevelam  and  ezetimibe. 
Gastrointestinal disorders were more apparent with the addition of colesevelam.  
Serious adverse events/deaths  
One patient in the colesevelam group and no patients in the placebo group had an SAE during period I. 
The patient was hospitalized and treated for moderate diverticulitis, which was considered unrelated to 
study medication. No patients had an SAE during period II. No deaths occurred. Although only one 
serious adverse event was reported and no deaths were reported, the CHMP considered the number of 
patients to small to draw any conclusions.    
Laboratory findings 
One  patient  demonstrated  moderate  elevation  in  liver  enzymes  during  period  II.  The  patient 
discontinued study 2 weeks later; however, due to a small number of patients included in the safety 
assessment, no firm conclusion on laboratory evaluation can be made by the CHMP. 
Discussion on safety 
Overall,  no  unexpected  adverse  events  occurred,  but  the  safety  population  was  very  limited  and  no 
long term safety data available. However, study CHOL00107 has a 9 months extension phase that is 
still ongoing. The results from this study will be provided by the MAH as soon as they are available. 
No pooling of safety data has been undertaken and the CHMP considered this a disadvantage since a 
larger safety database might have revealed potential safety signals. Hence, the submission of pooled 
safety data was requested by the CHMP. This generally confirmed the known adverse event profile for 
colosevelam; however, these data did not give an overall view of colesevelam safety. The following 
AEs  were  described  at  a  higher  frequency  (>0.8%)  in  the  colesevelam  arm  compared  to  placebo: 
cataract 0.8%; abdominal distension 2.1%; tooth infection 0.8%; urinary tract infection 1.9%; positive 
rombergism 0.8%; cough 0.8%; hypertension 1.2%.  The CHMP has therefore requested a thorough 
review of these AEs in the following PSUR cycle with the consideration for a potential for amendment 
of the SmPC (section 4.8). The commitment has been provided.  
Page 17  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, section 4.8 of the SmPC has been updated with the safety information relevant for the use 
of combination of colesevelam with ezetimibe.    
Risk Management Plan  
Initially,  a  justification  for  the  absence  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  for  Cholestagel  was 
submitted. This was mainly based on the following facts: 
−  The nature of the adverse events reported from the two clinical studies dosing Cholestagel in 
combination with ezetimibe and statins (studies CHOL00107 and WEL408) is in line with that 
described  for  Cholestagel  in  the  currently  approved  SmPC,  with  no  new  signals  or  trends 
emerging.  
−  The  patient  population  aimed  for  in  the  indication  seems  unchanged  and  limited  to  patients 
with primary hypercholesterolaemia, with a subset of  more severe patients exposed in study 
CHOL00107.  
−  The  safety  profile  of  Cholestagel  is  well-established  and  consistent  with  the  non-absorbed 
nature  of  the  product.  As  evidenced  by  data  submitted  both  in  the  original  application  and 
post-approval  to  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  adverse  reactions  are  generally  mild  or 
moderate in intensity.  
The  CHMP  did  not  agree  with  the  rationale  for  the  absence  of  the  RMP  provided  by  the  MAH.  In 
addition, in the  latest  PSUR  (covering  the  period  10 September 2008  to  09  March  2009),  the MAH 
stated that the first version of the Risk Management Plan is in preparation and that the document will 
be  submitted  by  end  of  Q3  2009.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  requested  the  submission  of  the  RMP  and 
inclusion  of  all  available  information  regarding  colesevelam  (incl.  Welchol),  as  well  as  the  data 
originating from clinical studies CHOL00107, WEL408 and WEL-410 that are submitted in support of 
the current evaluation procedure.  
In response, The MAH provided an RMP and the CHMP considered that there were no outstanding 
issues regarding this issue.  
The table below presents the evaluation of the need for risk minimisation activities with regard to the 
identified and potential risks in primary hypercholesterolaemia patients.  
Safety concern  
Identified Risks  
Constipation  
Routine risk 
minimisation 
activities  
Yes  
Intestinal obstruction  
Yes  
Myalgia  
Deficiency of fat-soluble 
vitamins  
Yes  
Yes  
Description of routine activity and 
justification  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Section 
4.4 Warnings and 4.8 Undesirable effects). 
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Sections 
4.3 Contraindications, 4.4 Warnings and 4.9 
Overdose). Comprehensive post-marketing 
surveillance as part of routine PV practice.  
Included in the labelling of Cholestagel 
(SmPC, Section 4.8 Undesirable effects). 
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Section 
4.5 Interactions). Comprehensive post-
marketing surveillance as part of routine PV 
practice.  
Page 18  
 
 
 
Hypertriglyceridaemia  
Yes  
Potential Risks  
Rhabdomyolysis  
Pancreatitis  
Bleeding tendency 
increased due to 
malabsorption of vitamin K  
Consequences of low serum 
cholesterol  
Yes  
Yes  
Yes  
Yes  
Cholelithiasis / cholecystitis  
Yes  
Missing information  
Use of Cholestagel in 
pregnant and lactating 
women  
Yes  
Use of Cholestagel in 
children younger than 12 
years  
Use of Cholestagel in 
patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment  
Yes  
Yes  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Sections 
4.4 Warnings and 4.8 Undesirable effects). 
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Sections 
4.4 Warnings and4.5 Interactions). 
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Section 
4.6 Pregnancy and lactation). Comprehensive 
post-marketing surveillance as part of routine 
PV practice.  
Pregnancy 
No clinical data are available on the use of 
Cholestagel in pregnant women. Animal 
studies do not indicate direct or indirect 
harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonic/foetal development, parturition or 
postnatal development (see section 5.3). 
Caution should be exercised when prescribing 
to pregnant women. 
Lactation 
The safety of Cholestagel has not been 
established in breast-feeding women. Caution 
should be exercised when prescribing to 
breast-feeding women 
Sufficiently addressed in the SmPC (Section 
4.2 Posology and method of administration). 
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
The safety and efficacy of Cholestagel have 
not been established in children and 
adolescent patients; therefore, the use of 
Cholestagel in these patient populations is not 
recommended.  
Comprehensive post-marketing surveillance as 
part of routine PV practice.  
OVERALL CONCLUSION AND BENFIT-RISK ASSESSMENT 
Discussion and conclusions on Environmental Risk Assessment 
The  applicant  has  not  submitted  an  ERA  based  on  the  EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  guideline.  The 
CHMP  is  of the  opinion  that  the  applicant  has  not  sufficiently  demonstrated  that  no  increase  in  use 
will  occur  due  to  the  extended  indications  applied  for  and  thus,  further  investigations  should  be 
performed. The applicant has provided a commitment to submit the documentation within a specified 
timeline. 
Page 19  
 
 
 
 
Discussion and conclusions on efficacy 
The applicant provided two studies to show that colesevelam has additional benefit in reducing LDL-C 
when added to ezetimibe with/without statin as a third line lipid lowering strategy.  
In study CHOL00107, a 12% reduction in LDL-C levels was achieved when colesevelam was added 
to  a  maximal  tolerated  therapy  with  a  statin  and  ezetimibe.  The  observed  lipid  lowering  effect  was 
slightly  less  to  that  in  monotherapy  (-15%  to  -18%)  and  similar  to  the  effect  when    colesevelam  is 
added  to  statin  alone  (-8%  to  -16%)  or  fenofibrate  (-10%).  However,  the  absolute  reduction  of  0.5 
mmol/l can be considered a relatively modest effect. . The reduction resulted in only 9% of patients 
reaching  the  treatment  goal  (<2.5mmol/L  LDL-C)  or  30%  were  considered  as  responders  (<15% 
decrease  in  LDL-C).  Nevertheless,  this  patient  population  could  be  considered  as  therapy  resistant 
patients, who despite being on already high dose combined lipid lowering therapy still do not reach 
treatment goals. Therefore, the sought third line therapy option of colesevelam could be considered a 
welcome  addition  to  existing  treatment  possibilities  and  is  considered  acceptable.  An  additive  lipid 
lowering effect is observed that fits with the complementary pharmacological mechanism of action of 
colesevelam.  
Study  WEL408  has  been  submitted  previously.  Results  of  this  study  have  also  been  assessed,  but 
could  not  be  included  as  benefit  was  actually  only  demonstrated  in  the  setting  of  ezetimibe  and 
colesevelam  duotherapy;  for  which  there  was  only  a  very  small  target  population  Therefore,  it  was 
decided in line with the SmPC guideline not to include this information in section 5.1 of the SmPC as 
this should be limited to data covered by the that time approved indication; either combination therapy 
with  statin  or  colesevelam  as  monotherapy.  Study  WEL408  demonstrated  that  an  additive  LDL-C 
lowering  effect  is  observed  when  colesevelam  is  combined  with  ezetimibe.    Triglycerides  are 
negatively but statistically non-significantly affected by colesevelam co-medication. However, when 
simvastatin was added to the combination the LDL-C in a second treatment period, declining efficacy 
of colesevelam disappeared in the triple therapy.  
The  apparently  discrepant  finding  in  the  added  efficacy  of  colesevelam  in  triple  therapy  is  largely 
explained  by  the  differences  in  study  design.  Study  WEL408  was  not  properly  designed  to 
demonstrate additional effect of colesevelam when statin is added afterwards. Study WEL408 supports 
the principal place of statins in treating hypercholesterolaemia, as much more effective reductions in 
LDL-C can be achieved even when statin is added on top of already combined lipid lowering therapy. 
Study  WEL408  can  be  considered  supportive  as  it  confirms  the  finding  of  CHOL00107  that 
colesevelam when added to an ezetimibe containing lipid lowering therapy is still able to reduce LDL-
C  further.  It  is  acknowledged  that  power  issues  may  have  contributed  as  well  in  not  finding  a 
differential  impact  of  a  colesevelam-based  strategy  in  the  second  phase  of  study  WEL408. 
Nevertheless,  following  the  evaluation  of  the  results  of  study  CHOL00107,  an  indication  for  dual 
colesevelam and ezetimibe therapy and inclusion of information in section 5.1 could be supported for 
patients who cannot tolerate, or for whom statins are contra-indicated and are inadequately controlled 
by ezetimibe monotherapy. The posology for the colesevelam maintenance dose for concomitant use 
with statins and/or ezetimibe remains to be 4 to 6 tablets. 
The  concomitant  dosing  of  ezetimibe  with  colesevelam  was  justified  and  is  supported.  It  was 
demonstrated  that  in  four  retrospective  small  studies  separate  or  concomitant  dose  intake  did  not 
influence outcome results. In addition, based on pharmacokinetics it was justified that it would not be 
very  useful  to  separate  dosing  schedules  because  of  the  enterohepatic  cycling  of  ezetemibe.  The 
proposal  to  change  the  posology  and  exclude  the  separated  intake  of  these  medicines  is  therefore 
considered acceptable. 
Discussion and conclusions on safety 
Conclusions on safety based on these two studies are limited, as limited numbers of patients have been 
studied.  With  the  introduction  of  colesevelam  to  the  therapy,  both  studies  demonstrated  a  higher 
incidence  of  adverse  events.  However,  the  adverse  events  profile  was  mild  to  moderate  in  severity. 
Still,  adding  colesevelam  to  existing  lipid  lowering  therapy  increases  the  occurrence  of  gastro-
Page 20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
intestinal adverse events, as was expected. In addition, the applicant should discuss in the next PSUR 
cycle  whether  some  adverse  events  identified  in  the  pooled  safety  data  set  warrant  inclusion  in  the 
safety section of the SmPC. 
Overall conclusions 
In conclusion, colesevelam demonstrated moderate LDL-C lowering capacity in duo therapy and triple 
therapy with statins and statins + ezetimibe, respectively. This could lead to a third line indication in 
patients  on  a  maximal  tolerated  therapy  with  a  statin  and  ezetimibe.  Also,  the  indication  can  be 
extended to patients who cannot tolerate or for whom statins are contra-indicated and are inadequately 
controlled by ezetimibe monotherapy. Particularly gastro-instestinal adverse events were noticed, but 
these are known adverse events for colesevelam as well as of ezetimibe. Still, as these adverse events 
are  only  mild  to  moderate  of  origin,  the  benefit  risk  profile  can  be  considered positive  as  third  line 
therapy  for  patients  in  whom  treatment  goals  cannot  be  achieved  with  statins  and  ezetimibe  or 
ezetimibe alone when statin therapy is not feasible.  
Pediatric data 
Study WEL410 has been previously assessed in FUM 007.2. No changes to the SmPC based on these 
results where proposed at the time, but the MAH was asked to include these with the current variation 
procedure. 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  study  WEL410,  which  is  contained  in  the  agreed  Paediatric 
Investigation Plan and has been completed after 26 January 2007, is considered as significant. 
The  main  goal  of  study  WEL410  was  the  demonstration  of  efficacy  in  paediatric  patients  of 
colesevelam added to the statin or as monotherapy. Considering that the current guidelines recommend 
statins  as  the  first  line  therapy  in  paediatric  HeFH,  it  would  have  been  expected  to  recruit  patients 
intolerant  or  contraindicated  for  statins,  in  the  monotherapy  indication.  This  was  not  the  case. 
However,  this  was  already  implemented  in  the  adult  clinical  studies,  in  which  statin-naïve  patients 
were recruited for the monotherapy studies, who were not necessarily intolerant to statins. Therefore, 
it  can  be  generally  concluded  that  the  monotherapy  indication  falls  within  the  adult  indication.  The 
results show that colesevelam significantly reduced LDL-C in a consistent and dose dependent manner 
to  -11.9%  using  the  higher  dose  of  3750  mg.  This  is  somewhat  less  than  reported  in  adults  (-15% 
reduction  in  LDL-C)  and  much  less  than  reported  for  statins  in  the  paediatric  population  (-22.9% 
reduction in LDL-C for pravastatin). Cholestagel can still constitute a therapeutic option for paediatric 
patients with statins intolerance; however, experience is limited to 28 weeks. Long term safety data are 
lacking. 
Regarding the add-on therapy, the efficacy was investigated only in 48 patients, which is considered to 
be a rather limited population. Patients were not on the maximally tolerated dose of statin, precluding 
a  conclusion  on  the  actual  additive  effect  of  colesevelam  on  optimal  statin  therapy.  A  trend  for 
reduction of LDL-C is shown in patients on the higher dose colesevelam, and a trend for increase in 
LDL-C  was  seen  with  the  lower  dose  of  colesevelam  and  placebo  groups.  The  increase  in  LDL-C 
could be attributed to patients stopping their co-administered statins, but this possibility is not further 
verified. No firm conclusions can be made regarding the efficacy of colesevelam as an add-on therapy 
due to the study shortcomings, in particular the small number of patients. Whether patients need to be 
on  the  highest  dose  of  statin  before  administering  clovesalam  is  a  point  for  discussion.  Compliance 
issues  with  respect to  statin  use  may  be  better  addressed  by  evaluating  LDL-C  effects  corrected  for 
placebo. 
Short term safety seems to be in line with the safety profile already known from the adult population. 
Gastro-intestinal problems and adverse events related to myopathy were observed, but no new safety 
signals were identified. Long term data are lacking. 
In  conclusion,  the  benefit  risk  ratio  for  treatment  of  paediatric  HeFH  patients  on  top  of  statins  is 
considered inconclusive. The number of patients on statin therapy was very small and no efficacy was 
shown for colesevelam. The benefit risk ratio for monotherapy with colesevelam is more positive, but 
long term safety data are lacking.  
Page 21  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Relevant information on the use of colesevelam in paediatric population was included in sections 4.2 
and 5.1 of the SmPC. 
Furthermore, the MAH proposed to update section 4.5 of the SmPC with the information on the effect 
of Cholestagel on the bioavailability of lovastatin, which was agreed with the CHMP. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the 
application, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. Annex II have been updated with standard wording to reflect the 
RMP version agreed with the CHMP. 
CONCLUSION 
On 18 February 2010 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  and  Package 
Leaflet. 
Page 22  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
