SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Cialis. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
Introduction 
Male erectile dysfunction has been defined as the persistent inability to attain and maintain an erection 
adequate to permit satisfactory sexual performance.  
Although erectile dysfunction is regarded as a benign disorder, it has a medical and social impact due 
to its high prevalence, costs and implications for the quality of life for many men and their partners.  
A  recent  review  concludes  that  the  prevalence  of  erectile  dysfunction  of  all  degrees  is  52%  in  men  
40 to 70 years old, with the incidence increasing with advancing age.  
Normal erectile function requires the coordination of psychological, hormonal, neurological, vascular 
and  anatomic  factors.  Alteration  of  any  of  these  factors  is  sufficient  to  cause  erectile  dysfunction. 
Main  causes  of  erectile  dysfunction  are  chronic  systemic  illnesses  such  as  diabetes  mellitus,  heart 
disease, hypertension and peripheral vascular disease. Neurological disorders, such as post-traumatic 
spinal-cord injuries, multiple sclerosis or post-surgical lesions such as radical prostatectomy are also 
important  causes  of  erectile  dysfunction.  Hormonal  disorders  such  as  hyperprolactinemia,  local 
conditions as Peyronie's disease or congenital or trauma deformities of the penis, drug-induced erectile 
dysfunction (antidepressants, thiazides, anabolic steroids, cimetidine, digoxin, or metoclopramide) and 
psychogenic factors are other frequent causes of erectile dysfunction. 
There  are  several  approaches  to  the  management  of  erectile  dysfunction:  psychosexual  counselling, 
hormonal therapy, mechanical devices, vascular surgery and pharmacological treatment.  
Psychosexual counselling can be useful in patients who have a considerable psychogenic component 
and it is usually used in conjunction with drug treatment.  
The  hormonal  therapy  may  benefit  patients  who  are  diagnosed  with  hypogonadism.  Mechanical 
devices such as vacuum constriction devices are a non-invasive method, but their main disadvantages 
include discomfort, borderline erection quality and psychological objections to the mechanical aspect 
of the treatment. Penile prostheses are recommended when other treatments have failed. 
Vascular  reconstructive  surgery  is  sometimes  indicated  in  patients  suffering  from  arterial  or  venous 
occlusive disease, often as the last resort before the implantation of a penile prosthesis. 
With  regards  to  the  pharmacological  treatment  therve  are  three  alternatives:  oral  treatment,  penile 
injection therapy and intraurethral therapy.  
Since  the  introduction  of  sildenafil  (Viagra  )  in  1998,  as  the  first  widely  used  oral  treatment  for 
erectile  dysfunction,  the  pharmacological  treatment  has  acquired  a  more  relevant  role  in  the 
management of the disease.  
Tadalafil  (CIALIS)  is  an  orally  administered  phosphodiesterase  type  5  (PDE5)  inhibitor  that  has 
been  developed  as  a  treatment  for  erectile  dysfunction.  When  sexual  stimulation  causes  the  local 
release of nitric oxide, which plays a central role in the vasodilation of erectile tissues by stimulating 
guanylyl  cyclase  activity,  consequently  raising  intracellular  concentrations  of  cyclic  guanosine 
monophosphate  (cGMP)  and  relaxing  vascular  smooth  muscle.  This  results  in  smooth  muscle 
relaxation and inflow of blood into the penile tissues, thereby producing an erection.  
Thus  tadalfil  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction.  Tadalafil  has  no  effect  in  the 
absence of sexual stimulation. 
1/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Cialis contains 10 mg or 20 mg of tadalafil as active ingredient presented in the form of film-coated 
tablets. 
Conventional  pharmaceutical  excipients  are  used:  lactose  monohydrate,  hydroxypropylcellulose, 
sodium  laurilsulfate,  croscarmellose  sodium,  microcrystalline  cellulose  and  magnesium  stearate 
(vegetable source), and Opadry II Yellow.  
Cialis tablets are packaged in 2 mil Aclar blisters with PVC with an aluminium foil lid.  
Active substance 
INN 
Tadalafil 
Pyrazino[1',2':1,6]pyrido[3,4-b]indole-1,4-dione,6-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-
2,3,6,7,12,12a-hexahydro-2-methyl-,(6R-trans)-(6R,12aR)-2,3,6,7,12,12a-hexahydro-2-methyl-6-[3,4-
(methylenedioxy)phenyl]-pyrazino[1',2':1,6] pyrido [3,4-b]indole-1,4-dione. 
is 
Tadalafil  is practically insoluble in water. It does not possess any ionisable groups in the pH range of 
1-11  and,  subsequently,  does  not  demonstrate  any  changes  in  solubility  in  aqueous  buffers  in  that 
range. It is freely soluble only in solvents such as dimethylsulfoxide and dimethylformamide. 
This  molecule  has  2  chiral  centres,  and  therefore  four  different  stereoisomers  may  be  found.  The 
molecule  obtained  in  the  process  described  is  in  the  RR  form..  Crystallization  studies  show  that 
tadalafil does not exhibit polymorphism. 
Tadalafil  drug  substance  is  synthesised  by  a  3-step  process,  with  purifications  following  each  step. 
After the final drying, the resulting solid is milled to meet the established particle size specification.” 
Active substance specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for identity (IR, HPLC), assay and a number of purity 
tests for related substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), and other appropriate tests. 
The  analytical  methods  used  in  routine  controls  are  suitability  described.  The  validation  studies 
submitted are in accordance to the ICH Guidelines on “Validation of Analytical Procedures”. Impurity 
limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch  data  are  provided  for  14  production  batches  and  14  batches  manufactured  using  a  previous 
manufacturing process, as supporting data.. 
The tests and limits in the specification are appropriate for controlling the quality of Tadalafil. 
Stability 
Stability studies under stress conditions and formal stability studies were carried out in five batches of 
drug substance  manufactured by the commercial process. Three of them were packaged in container 
closures  identical  to  those  intended  for  use  in  commercial  distribution  with  and  without  desiccant.  
The other two batches were stored in double 4-mil LLDPE liners in a foil laminate liner in fibre drums 
without desiccant.  
Analytical  methods  used  for  stability  studies  are  the  same  or  equivalent  to  those  used  for  release 
testing of the active substance. Other tests were also investigated as part of the comprehensive stability 
package.  
Stability  Studies  on  the  solid  state,  solutions  and  suspensions  of  the  active  substance  at  different 
conditions were carried out. No degradation or physical changes were observed in tadalafil at its solid 
state  under  heat,  humidity  and  light  exposure.  However,  degradation  was  observed  in  solutions  and 
suspensions of the active substance at different pH values, light and oxidative conditions. 
Tests were carried out following the ICH stability guideline  
All tests  are  carried  out in these studies are sufficient to establish the retest period for tadalafil, two 
years. 
2/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Ingredients 
Conventional  pharmaceutical  excipients  lactose  monohydrate,  hydroxypropylcellulose,  sodium 
laurilsulfate,  croscarmellose  sodium,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  magnesium  stearate  (vegetable 
origin), hypromellose, triacetin, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide (E172), and talc are of Ph. Eur/ 
USP/JP  quality.  Certificates  of  analyses  are  provided  and  show  compliance  with  respective 
monographs. The Magnesium stearate is of vegetable origin, and a statement concerning the absence 
of risk for TSE transmission is provided. 
The  composition  of  the  excipients  not  described  in  a  pharmacopoeia  (colour  mixture  yellow 
32K12884)  is  enclosed  in  the  dossier,  joined  to  the  specification  for  identification  and  microbial 
limits. 
Description  of  the  packaging  material  and  IR  spectra  of  each  component  is  included.  Quality 
specifications and routine tests for all these materials are described. 
Product development and finished product 
The development pharmaceutics have taken into consideration the physicochemical characteristics of 
the  active  drug  substance  such  as  poor  aqueous  solubility,  hygroscopic  properties,  stability,  particle 
size, and biopharmaceutical issues such as dissolution rate.  
The  formulation  contains  stable,  milled  tadalafil  drug  substance  and  incorporated  into  a  wet 
granulation  to  consistently  produce  tablets  with  good  homogeneity  and  the  desired  dissolution 
characteristics. To achieve a dosage form with a rapid therapeutic onset, the excipients included in the 
formulation were selected and adjusted to promote rapid absorption. This combination of ingredients 
has produced a material (free-flowing, easily wetted and compressible) as well as tablets that possess 
the  desired  physical  characteristics  of  low  friability,  acceptable  hardness  and  rapid  disintegration. 
After that, film coating stage produce film-coated tablets with a uniform appearance, easy to swallow 
with little or no impact on the dissolution profile 
Clinical  trial  studies  were  performed  using  different  formulations  and  they  have  shown  to  be 
bioequivalent with the market formulation. 
The  process  for  the  manufacturing  of  the  finished  product  follows  conventional  pharmaceutical 
practices,  which  includes  aqueous  wet  granulation,  sizing,  and  drying  steps  of  tadalafil  with 
hydrophilic  excipients,  followed  by  dry  sizing  of  the  granulate  and  then  blending  with  additional 
excipients. The final blend is compressed into tablets, which are subsequently coated. 
Validation of the manufacturing process was performed on 3 full-scale batches. For each one of those 
batches,  specific  conditions  at  each  stage  were  investigated  (mixing  speeds,  times,  screen  size, 
temperature,  rotation  speeds,  etc.).  Results  indicate  that  the  process  is  adequately  validated  and 
controlled. 
Product Specification 
The specification includes tests by validated methods for appearance, water content, microbial purity 
(Ph  Eur),  dye  identity  test,  dissolution  (UV,  HPLC),  identification  (IR),  assay  (HPLC),  content 
uniformity (UV), and degradation products (HPLC). 
The  dissolution  test  is  performed  in  a  dissolution  apparatus.  Either  UV  spectrometric  or  HPLC 
detection  quantified  the  drug  dissolved.  The  dissolution  procedure  is  validated  with  respect  to 
precision  and  robustness.  The  two  detection  methods  are  validated  in  terms  of  accuracy,  precision 
(repeatability and reproducibility), specificity, linearity, range and robustness. 
There  are  no  solid-state  degradation  products  and  chemical  stability  has  been  maintained  under  all 
experimental  storage  conditions.  However,  limits  for  individual  related  substances  and  total  related 
substances are established at release and shelf life, even when these products have not been observed. 
Limits for individual and total related substances are established based on active substance limits and 
the “CPMP/ICH guideline on impurities in new products”. 
The tests and limits of the release and shelf life specification for the finished product are appropriate to 
control the quality of CIALIS for their intended purpose. 
3/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch data are provided for 14 production scale batches and indicate satisfactory uniformity. 
Stability of the Product 
Results are generated under ICH conditions for batches of tablets stored up to 12 months. 
The characteristics studied are appearance, water content, dissolution, degradation products and assay. 
Analytical methods used for primary stability studies are the same as those used for release testing of 
the drug product. These methods are adequately validated. 
The quality specifications at shelf life were provided.  
The primary and supporting stability batches of tadalafil film-coated tablets demonstrate that the drug 
product is stable at room temperature. 
As  a  conclusion  from  the  stability  studies,  the  results  indicate  satisfactory  stability  and  support  the 
shelf life stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality of  Cialis  is adequately  established. In  general,  satisfactory chemical  and  pharmaceutical 
documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from 
EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well characterised and documented. The excipients are commonly used in this 
kind  of  formulation;  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented  and  meets  Ph  Eur  requirements.  
The manufacturing process of finished product has been adequately described. The quality defined is 
supported by all data provided in the dossier. 
The stability of the finished product in the proposed packaging has been adequately demonstrated and 
supports the proposed expiry data. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
CIALIS  contains  the  active  substance  tadalafil,  a  new  reversible  inhibitor  of  the  cyclic  guanosine 
monophosphate  (cGMP)  phosphodiesterase, PDE type 5 (PDE5),  intended for the treatment  of  male 
erectile dysfunction. 
• 
In vivo studies  
Although  no  in  vivo  study  has  been  carried  out,  results  of  in  vitro  studies  conducted  indicate  that 
tadalafil exerts PDE5 inhibitor activity suggesting that it can be efficacious in the treatment of patients 
with erectile dysfunction. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
In  anaesthetised  dogs,  a  3-mg/kg  intravenous  dose  reduced  blood  pressure  due  to  the  vasodilator 
activity  without  affecting  cardiac  output,  and  in  conscious  dogs  oral  doses  up  to  200  mg/kg  had  no 
effect on heart or respiration rate or ECG waveform. There were no changes in PR and QT intervals 
produced by tadalafil or, by inference, its metabolites. 
Additional  data  from  clinical  studies  was  provided  on  the  effects  of  tadalafil  on  platelet  and  retinal 
function.  There  were  no  treatment-related  effects  observed  on  bleeding  time  and  also,  no  effects  of 
tadalafil on retinal function were observed. The effect of tadalafil on in vitro cardiac electrophysiology 
has not been investigated. However no tadalafil-related adverse cardiovascular effects were observed. 
Since  its  potential  effects  on  cardiac  electrophysiology  are  based  on  clinical  data,  the  Applicant  has 
committed to conduct a HERG channel assay with tadalafil as a post-authorisation follow-up measure. 
4/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  number  of  studies  have  been  carried  out  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  tadalafil. 
Tadalafil  was  absorbed  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs,  but  the  extent  of  absorption  varied  with  dose.  
In  general,  plasma  levels  of  tadalafil  increased  with  dose  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs,  but  the  increases 
were less than proportional, especially at the higher doses used in the toxicology studies. A prolonged 
absorption phase was observed in all species at these high doses. 
Following  absorption,  tadalafil  was  extensively  bound  to  plasma  proteins  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs. 
Tadalafil was shown to be widely distributed in animal tissues, the highest levels being observed in the 
gastrointestinal tract contents and the liver. Tadalafil was not observed in the central nervous system. 
No  studies  have  been  reported  using  multiple  dose  regimens.  The  lack  of  such  studies  is  justified 
taking into account the proposed dose regimen. 
All  the  metabolites  found  in  humans  have  been  identified  in  animal  species.  The  major  routes  of 
metabolism  followed  an  initial  opening  of  the  methylenedeoxybenzyl  ring  to  form  the  catechol.  
The  catechol  undergoes  glucuronidation  to  form  the  catechol  glucuronide  conjugate  or  extensive 
methylation and glucuronidation to form the methylcatechol and methylcatechol glucuronide conjugate, 
respectively. 
The major route of excretion of tadalafil was via the faeces both in rats and dogs, indicating incomplete 
oral absorption and biliary excretion of metabolites.  Very little urinary excretion occurred in rats and it 
was a minor route of elimination in dogs.  
In assessing the exposure margins in the animals used during toxicology studies, with those in humans, 
systemic exposure to tadalafil was observed during the toxicity studies providing margins of safety above 
those that are achieved in humans after a 20 mg dose. 
In vitro  studies with  human  liver  microsomes  and  cultured  human  hepatocytes  showed that  tadalafil 
caused  both  mechanism-based  inhibition  of  CYP3A4  activity  (at  micromolar  concentrations)  and 
induction of CYP3A4 expression. Additional data on possible drug-drug interactions between tadalafil 
and other concomitantly administered drugs that are metabolised via CYP3A4 were submitted during 
the procedure. These were clinical data in relation to interaction studies conducted with tadalafil and 
concomitantly  administered  midazolam  or  lovastatin  to  determine  in  vivo  whether  tadalafil  could 
affect  metabolism  of  drugs  metabolised  by  CYP3A4.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  midazolam  and 
lovastatin  in  healthy  subjects  were  virtually  unaffected  by  co-administration  with  10  and  20  mg 
respectively of tadalafil, indicating that tadalafil is unlikely to interfere with CYP3A4 metabolism of 
other interaction drugs. This information has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SPC), specifically stating that most of interaction studies were performed at dosage of 10 mg. 
Toxicology 
A battery of toxicity studies was conducted in order to assess the possible toxic effects that could be 
due to tadalafil. There is no concern in relation to GLP fulfilment. 
• 
Single dose toxicity:  
In  single-dose  toxicity  studies,  tadalafil  by  the  oral  route  was  well  tolerated  in  mice  and  rats  and  by 
intravenous  route  tadalafil  at  62.5  mg/kg  resulted  in  clinical  signs  including  tremors  and  laboured 
breathing  in  mice,  and  moribund  condition  and  convulsions  in  some  rats.  For  both  species,  the  clinical 
signs were limited to the day of dosing, and the control groups displayed some of the same clinical signs 
as treated animals at the higher doses. It has been suggested that it may be related to the 90% PEG 400 
vehicle.  
• 
Repeat dose toxicity: 
In chronic toxicity studies main toxic findings were related to the testes such as degeneration, vacuolation 
and atrophy of seminiferous tubular epithelium found in mouse and dog. The clinical relevance of these 
findings has been addressed.  
The  mechanism  for  testicular  findings  in  mice  has  been  addressed  in  the  carcinogenicity  study  and 
compares and contrasts this finding to the compound-related testicular alterations reported in the testes 
of dogs given tadalafil. The justification regarding the low relevance of the mice testicular findings is 
5/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
acceptable. In mice, microscopic features of degeneration of seminiferous epithelium in the testes in 
both  control  and  tadalafil-treated  mice  were  similar  in  incidence  and  seem  to  be  consistent  with  the 
commonly  reported,  age-related  testicular  degeneration  in  this  strain  and  species.  Therefore,  as  the 
Applicant states this finding is not attributed to administration of tadalafil.  
In dogs, the exact mechanism for the tadalafil-related testicular alterations remains unclear. A mechanistic 
hypothesis  to  explain  the  underlying  tadalafil-related  testicular  alteration  reported  in  dogs  has  been 
provided.  It  is  argued  that  the  lesions  observed  are  consistent  with  thermal  or  hypoxic  injury  due  to 
pharmacological action and could be a species-specific effect. If testicular anatomical differences between 
man and dog are considered, there is a plausible explanation although unproven. 
In  addition  the  Applicant  also  refers  to  seminiferous  tubule  degeneration  in  dogs  observed  with 
vasodilator compounds such us terazosin, doxazosin and prazosin without adverse effects reported in 
humans for some of them. The human studies with tadalafil that have been conducted so far, do not 
provide  further  evidence  of  testicular  toxicity.  Although  a  small  decrease  was  seen  in  sperm 
concentration in one study after a 6  months daily treatment with 10  mg, it is acknowledged that the 
magnitude of the decrease lies within the normal intraindividual variability, and that there is a lack of 
consistent findings in motility or morphology. Furthermore a replicate study with 20 mg did not show 
any effect on sperm at 6 months 
Albeit  the  arguments  presented,  a  further  consideration  of  significant  importance  is  the  number  of 
sperm  cycles  covered  in  the  preclinical  and  clinical  studies.  The  maximum  number  of  sperm  cycles 
covered in the 6- and12-month dog study was approximately 3 and 5, whereas in the 6-month clinical 
study in humans only about 2 sperm cycles were covered. Since the clinical study covers less than the 
minimum sperm cycles covered in the dog, the clinical study does not provide sufficient assurance for 
daily use in man for more than 6 months. The applicant has therefore agreed to perform a further study 
to  investigate  semen  characteristics  in  humans  given  20mg  of  tadalafil  daily  for  9  months.  
The testicular alterations (regression of the seminiferous tubular epithelium and the resulting decrease 
in spermatogenesis in some dogs) have also been reflected in the SPC  
Decreases in platelet count were observed in a 1-year dog study. Additional information provided by 
the  company  did  not  reveal  similar  treatment-related  haematology  changes  in  rats  or  mice  given 
tadalafil  for  up  to  6  months.  Furthermore,  there  have  been  no  observations  up  to  date  of  similar 
clinically  significant,  tadalafil-induced  changes  in  neutrophil  or  platelet  counts  to  date  in  over  
4000 patients, including some patients treated with tadalafil for periods greater than 1 year. Therefore,  
the findings in dogs were considered to be clinically not relevant.  
Vascular  lesions  were  noted  in  rat  studies  with  tadalafil  and  occurred  in  multiple  organs. 
Supplementary information provided by the company reveal that vascular findings were also reported 
in rats given vehicle control or tadalafil. The vascular lesions observed in the rats are similar to those 
described in the literature (references are provided) with a number of spontaneous conditions, and are 
similar in incidence and severity across all dose groups, including controls. Therefore, vascular lesions 
noted in rats can be considered as not clinically relevant. 
However  in  dogs,  the  observed  vascular  lesions  seem  to  be  compatible  to  Beagle  Pain  Syndrome 
(BPS),  an  idiopathic  disease  with  higher  incidence  in  some  colonies  of  beagle  dogs  where  lesions 
generally  occur  in  multiple  arteries.  Data  suggest  that  administration  of  high  doses  of  tadalafil  may 
have  exacerbated  underlying  BPS  in  the  Beagle  colonies  used  for  earlier  studies.  Vascular  findings 
thought to be related to BPS have also been reported with another PDE5 inhibitor (sildenafil) in dogs. 
A class-effect cannot therefore be ruled out. In addition, a search of the clinical safety database did not 
result in any evidence of a vascular inflammatory adverse event and therefore this is not considered to 
be of any concern. 
Decreased thymus weights and thymic lymphoid atrophy were observed in some dogs given tadalafil. 
These thymic alterations were either consistent with age-related involution, were similar in incidence 
and  severity  to  spontaneous  alterations  in  concurrent  controls,  or  were  secondary  to  stress  or 
spontaneous  inflammation.  No  compound-induced  alterations  occurred  in  lymphoid  organs  (thymus, 
spleen, lymph nodes, and Peyer’s patches), bone marrow, or in peripheral absolute lymphocyte counts 
in mice, rats, or dogs given tadalafil. No tadalafil-induced effects suggestive of immunotoxic potential 
were observed in mice, rats, or dogs given tadalafil. 
6/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Genotoxicity 
Tadalafil can be considered as non-mutagenic as a result of the battery of in vivo and in vitro assays 
carried out. The human metabolite most relevant to the genotoxicity studies is the catechol metabolite 
IC711. Justification has been provided for the lack of a separate metabolite identification study after 
metabolic  activation  since  exposure  to  the  catechol  metabolite  (IC711)  is  expected  in  the  in  vitro 
genotoxicity studies conducted, following the in vitro metabolism of tadalafil using microsomes from 
rat, dog, mouse and human liver.  
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Liver tumours were reported in male mice and rats in the carcinogenicity studies. While there was an 
apparent minor numerical increase in the number of hepatocellular neoplasms in male rats treated with 
the high dose of tadalafil, this difference was not statistically significant, and is likely to represent an 
incidental variation.  Tadalafil caused hepatocellular microsomal enzyme induction in both mice and 
rats,  and  it  is  possible  that  this  could  lead  to  an  increased  incidence  of  hepatocellular  neoplasms.  
However,  even  if  this  mechanism  were  operable  in  the  mice  and  rats,  hepatic  microsomal  enzyme 
induction is a common non-genotoxic biologic effect associated with hepatocellular tumour formation 
in rodents and is not considered relevant to human cancer risk 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity 
The only male reproductive toxicity study provided was in the rat, which is not a species affected by 
the testicular toxicity.  
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Tadalafil primary pharmacology has been assessed in four studies using “populations models”. 
Population  models  were  developed  in  three  Phase  2  studies  (LVAC,  LVBF  and  LVBG)  in  which 
co-precipitate tablets were used.  In these studies, tadalafil was administered at dosages ranging from 
2 mg to 100 mg.  
The final model was developed in a Phase 3 trial (LVCE) using tadalafil market-image tablets up to 
10 mg in an “as needed” dose regimen.  
All population pharmacodynamic modelling was based on responses to the Sexual Encounter Profile 
(SEP) questionnaire and the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) questionnaire.   
The  general  structural  model  was  based  on  the  pharmacologically  relevant  maximal  drug  effect 
(Emax) model describing a saturable drug response with increasing dose. The Emax model parameters 
of interest were dose for half-maximal effect (E50) and Emax. 
Patients were instructed  to complete a  SEP entry  after each attempt at sexual intercourse.   The SEP 
variable  reflects  the  patient's  acute  response  to  drug  treatment  at  the  time  of  attempted  sexual 
intercourse.  Questions 2 and 3 are regarded as the most objective measures for drug effect: Question 2 
inquires  “Were  you  able  to  insert  your  penis  into  the  partner’s  vagina?”;  Question  3  inquires,  
“Did your erection last long enough for you to complete intercourse with ejaculation?” (or “Did your 
erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse?”).  
The probability of a score of 1 ("yes") across all sexual attempts during a study interval was modelled.  
The  populations  models predicted that  an increase  of  the  dose from  10 mg to  20 mg  would  increase 
the  IIEF  EF  Domain  score  by  2.4  points  and  the  relationships  between  tadalafil  dose  and  combined 
SEP Question 2/Question 3 and the IIEF EF Domain was also predicted.  
The  tadalafil  treatment  effect  in  the  combined  SEP  Question  2/Question  3  model  was  most 
appropriately described as a linear function of dose indicating that the maximal possible response was 
7/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not attained with a 10 mg tadalafil dose, since a continuously increasing response with increasing dose 
was predicted. 
Patients  with  the  most  severe  ED  prior  to  treatment,  represented  by  a  baseline  probability  close  to  
0 (negligible chance of successful intercourse), benefited most from tadalafil therapy. 
No  specific  formal  pharmacodynamic  studies  with  the  usual  laboratory  models  (Rigiscan)  were 
performed except one study (LVBJ) intended to assess the responsiveness during the first hour after 
administration and 24 hours after administration. Further  data from one additional study (N=45)  has 
been provided which assessed the effect of 100 mg tadalafil (early research co-precipitate formulation) 
compared  with  placebo  in  improving  erectile  function  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  erectile 
dysfunction (ED) as assessed by Rigiscan penile plethysmography during 36 minutes of visual sexual 
stimulation, 5 hours following dosing.  
Regarding the secondary pharmacology of tadalafil, two studies were performed in order to assess the 
effects of tadalafil in visual function. No relevant findings in visual function were observed. 
The  effect  of  tadalafil  on  platelet  aggregation,  gastrointestinal  or  other  possible  pharmacological 
actions have not been investigated in formal pharmacodynamic studies. 
Tadalafil at 20 mg may induce a blood pressure decrease, which is, in general, minor and not likely to 
be clinically relevant. This is referred to under “Interaction Studies”. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption 
Tadalafil is absorbed after oral administration and the mean maximum observed plasma concentration 
(Cmax) is achieved approximately at a mean time of 2 hours after dosing. Absolute bioavailability of 
tadalafil  following  oral  dosing  has  not  been  determined.  Tadalafil  tmax  is  about  2  hours.  Its  mean 
volume of distribution is approximately 63  l. 
The mean oral clearance for tadalafil is 2.5 l/h and the mean half-life is 17.5 hours in healthy subjects. 
Tadalafil  pharmacokinetics  in  healthy  subjects  is  linear  with  respect  to  time  and  dose.  Over  a  dose 
range  of  2.5  to  20 mg,  exposure  (AUC)  increases  proportionally  with  dose.  Steady-state  plasma 
concentrations are attained within 5 days of once-daily dosing. 
Metabolism 
Tadalafil  is  predominantly  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  3A4  isoform  and  several 
inactive  metabolites  have  been  identified  in  plasma,  urine  or  faeces:  the  methylcatecol  glucuronide 
that  is  the  main  circulating  metabolite  in  plasma,  the  catechol  glucuronide,  two  hydroxylated 
compounds, and the catechol derivate (in some subjects). 
Excretion 
Tadalafil is excreted predominantly as inactive metabolites, mainly in the faeces (approximately 61 % 
of the dose) and to a lesser extent in the urine (approximately 36 % of the dose).  
• 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations: 
Tadalafil  10  mg  was  administered  to  elderly  healthy  subjects  aged  65  to  78  years.  The  systemic 
exposure was higher in elderly subjects than in healthy subjects aged 19 to 45 years. This effect of age 
is not clinically significant.  
Tadalafil 10 mg has been administered to subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 51 to 80 ml/min), 
moderate (creatinine clearance 31 to 50 ml/min) renal impairment and in subjects with end-stage renal 
failure  undergoing  haemodialysis;  and  also  in  patients  with  mild  and  moderate  hepatic  impairment. 
Tadalafil has not been studied in subjects in patients diagnosed with severe hepatic dysfunction. Since 
there are no available data administering tadalafil 20 mg to patients with any degree of renal or hepatic 
impairment,  the  use  of  tadalafil  20  mg  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  is  not  justified.  
Ten  mg  could  be  considered  for  these  patients,  as  there  is  sufficient  efficacy  data  to  support  some 
therapeutic effect at this dose.  
The  integrated  pharmacokinetic  analysis  revealed  that  smokers  had  statistically  significant  shorter  
t½ values and smaller AUC and Cmax values compared to non-smokers. 
8/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Tadalafil  has  been  studied  in  diabetic  patients  in  a  limited  pharmacokinetic  study.  Although  from  a 
pharmacokinetic point of view this study is of little value, the existence of phase III data in diabetic 
patients give some reassurance that the small difference in exposure (19%) observed in the PK study is 
not clinically significant for this population. 
No  studies  have  been  performed  in  children,  but  due  to  the  therapeutic  indication  of  the  product,  
they are not necessary. 
Interaction studies 
Interaction  studies  have  been  performed  to  assess  the  pharmacodynamic  and/or  pharmacokinetic 
tadalafil  on  several  drugs  or  vice  versa.  A  complete  evaluation  of  potential 
effects  of 
pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  interactions  has  been  performed  both  in  healthy  volunteers 
and in patients mainly diagnosed of cardiovascular diseases (hypertension). 
Tadalafil  has  been  studied  with  H2  antagonists  and  antacids,  with  rifampicin,  a  specific  CYP3A4-
inducer and ketoconazole, a specific CYP3A4 inhibitor. No clinically relevant effects were observed 
in  the  antacid  and  H2  antagonist  studies.  However,  rifampicin  reduced  the  AUC  for  tadalafil. 
Ketoconazole showed inhibition of the systemic clearance of tadalafil clearly increasing the AUC for 
tadalafil.  
Most interaction studies have been performed with tadalafil at a dose of 10 mg (studies for rifampicin, 
ketoconazole,  midazolam,  warfarin, among  others). Only some pharmacology interaction studies are 
available with tadalafil at a dose of 20 mg: lovastatin, several angiotensin ATII receptor antagonists, 
amlodipine, tamsulosin and ethanol.  
The possibility that tadalafil might be a mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP3A4 was investigated with 
the  CYP3A4  probe  substrates  midazolam  and  lovastatin  and  with  amlodipine  that  has  inhibitory 
potency  towards  CYP3A4  (and  also  a  weak  reversible  inhibitor  for  CYP2D6  and  CYP2C9).  No 
clinically  relevant  interactions  were  found  for  midazolam,  lovastatine  or  amlodipine.  For  drugs  that 
are CYP3A4  substrates, the absence of clinically relevant interactions for lovastatin, administered at 
the  dose  of  20  mg  might  be  extrapolated  to  midazolam  and  other  CYP3A4  substrates.  However,  
the  existence  of  clinically  relevant  drug  interactions  of  the  full  dose  (20  mg)  of  tadalafil  cannot 
completely be ruled out.  
The  possibility  of  Pgp-mediated  transport  of  tadalafil  and  possible  effects  of  tadalafil  on  this 
transporter has been appropriately reflected in the SPC  
The possibility of interactions between tadalafil and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 substrates was 
assessed with theophylline, warfarin and the β-blocker metoprolol, respectively. No clinically relevant 
effects  were  found  in  general  in  these  interaction  studies,  although  the  theophylline  study  showed  a 
statistically  significant  increase  of  heart  rate  in  patients  taking  tadalafil  (10mg)  plus  theophylline.  
A statement recommending caution when tadalafil is coadministered to theophylline has been included 
in the SPC. 
No interaction studies have been conducted with tadalafil with protease inhibitors. The SPC does note 
the  potential  for  protease  inhibitors  to  increase  the  plasma  concentration  of  tadalafil  and  a 
recommendation  of  caution  regarding  the  co-administration  of  these  drugs  has  been  included  in 
section 4.5.  
Two studies were performed in order to assess the existence of pharmacological interactions between 
tadalafil and alcohol. Small and transient reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure occurred 
following both treatments. These changes were accompanied by compensatory increases in heart rate. 
For the main endpoint (maximum reduction in standing systolic blood pressure), the 95 % CI for the 
mean  difference  between  the  two  treatments  was  completely  contained  within  the  predefined 
equivalence limits of –8 mmHg to +8 mmHg. 
One  study  was  performed  in  order  to  assess  the  effect  between  tadalafil  and  oral  contraceptives. 
Co-administration  of  tadalafil  increases  systemic  exposure  to  the  ethinylestradiol  component  of  the 
oral  contraceptive.  The  data  suggest  that  the  primary  effect  of  tadalafil  is  on  the  bioavailability  of 
ethinylestradiol, with little effect on systemic plasma clearance of ethinylestradiol. This increase may 
be shared by other oral drugs, such as terbutaline and is mentioned in the SPC. 
9/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The  cardiovascular  profile  of  tadalafil  appears  similar  to  other  agents  belonging  to  the  same 
therapeutic  class.  The  decreasing  effect  in  blood  pressure  has  been  correctly  characterised  when 
tadalafil  is  co-administered  with  nitrates.  Three  interaction  studies  with  nitrates  showed  a  marked 
reduction in blood pressure, therefore, the coadministration of tadalafil and nitrates is contraindicated. 
The  potential  for  tadalafil  to  increase  the  hypotensive  effect  of  antihypertensive  agents  was  also 
examined  in  six  separate  studies.  Major  antihypertensive  classes  were  examined  with  a  calcium 
channel  blocker  (amlodipine,  5  mg  PO  QD),  an  angiotensin-converting  enzyme  inhibitor  (enalapril,  
5  mg  or  10  mg  PO  BID),  a  beta  blocker  (metoprolol  SR,  50-200  mg  PO  QD),  a  thiazide  diuretic 
(bendrofluazide,  2.5  mg  or  5  mg  PO  QD),  an  angiotensin  II  receptor  blocker  (any  type  and  dose  or 
combination  with  other  antihypertensive  agents  was  acceptable)  and  an  alpha  1A  receptor  blocker 
(tamsulosin, 0.4 mg PO QD). It is clear that tadalafil decreases the blood pressure in patients treated 
with AT II receptor antagonist agents. This decrease is not very pronounced but it cannot be excluded 
that it may be important for individual patients.  
New  analysis  and  data  regarding  the  effect  of  tadalafil  in  blood  pressure  when  antihypertensive 
medications  are  given  simultaneously  suggest  that  tadalafil  may  decrease  blood  pressure  and  those 
decreases  may  be  more  evident  in  patients  receiving  an  antihypertensive  treatment.  Although  this 
decrease  is,  in  generally  slight,  tadalafil  should  be  administered  with  caution  to  patients  receiving 
antihypertensive medication. Cautionary advice has been included in the SPC on possible interactions 
of antihypertensive therapy and tadalafil. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical 
principles.  
Dose response studies 
Dose  finding  studies  have  explored  doses  ranging  from  2  mg  to  100  mg.  All  doses  have  shown 
differences  to  placebo.  Although  the  2.5  mg  dose  did  not  show  efficacy  so  as  to  be  considered  an 
efficacious treatment for erectile dysfunction, it does show differences to placebo in its achievement of 
a Cmax (unbound concentration) about 8 times the IC50 after a single 2.5 mg oral dose. Nonetheless a 
dose-related effect was observed; 100 mg appeared to be the worst tolerated. 
It  is  noted  that  dose-finding  studies  were  performed  using  the  same  clinical  subjective  variables  as 
those used in pivotal clinical trials.  
All studies tested fixed doses in parallel groups. No dose titration studies have been performed trying 
to explore responses to higher doses in patients without adequate response to 10-20 mg.  
Dose titration was performed in two long-term studies that were open label extensions of the efficacy 
controlled clinical trials. Doses of 5, 10, 25 and 50 mg (co-precipitate formulation) were used in one 
study, and doses of 5, 10, and 20 mg (market image formulation) were used in the other. Although in 
these  studies  the  expected  spontaneous  trend  is  to  achieve  the  higher  dose  if  tolerated,  at  least  one 
third of the patients remained on the 25 mg dose without increasing to 50 mg. 
Although 5-mg, 10-mg, and 20-mg doses have not been directly compared within a single study, there 
have  been  two  comparisons  of  10  mg  with  5  mg  and  two  comparisons  of  20  mg  with  10  mg.  
Because  the  results  of  both  sets  of  comparisons  were  consistent,  these  results  are  considered  to  be 
sufficient to establish a positive dose-response relationship in the range of 5 mg to 20 mg. 
The doses of 10 and 20 mg (final formulation) were further tested in phase III trials.  
Main studies (phase III trials)  
Description of the studies 
Six pivotal trials have been performed. In four of the six studies, a 20mg dose was used, including a 
study  exclusively  in  patients  with  diabetes.  The  other  two  trials  had  the  10  mg  dose  as  the  highest 
tested dose. 
10/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Placebo-Controlled Phase 3 Clinical Trials 
Report code 
Number (location) 
of center(s) 
Design 
H6D-MC-LVBN 
19 centers 
Double-blind, 
placebo-contr
Number of 
Subjects 
Randomized 
With Age 
and Sex 
N=215 
Ages>18 
Diagnosis 
Plus Criteria for 
Duration  
of Treatment 
Inclusion 
Mild to severe ED 
No nitrate therapy 
12 weeks 
olled, parallel 
Males 
No unstable 
angina 
Test Product / 
Formulation / 
Dosageb / 
Regimen / 
Route of 
Administration 
IC351 Market 
Image 5mg, 
10 mg; PRN, 
oral 
Criteria for Evaluation 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
SEP Q2,Q3 
H6D-MC-LVCE 
18 centers 
Double-blind, 
placebo-contr
N=308 
Ages>18 
Mild to severe ED 
No nitrate therapy 
12 weeks 
IC351 Market 
Image 2.5, 5 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
SEP Q2,Q3 
olled, parallel 
Males 
No unstable 
angina 
and 10 mg; 
PRN, oral 
H6D-MC-LVDJa 
25 centers, Canada 
Double-blind, 
placebo-contr
olled, parallel 
N=253 
Ages ≥18 
Males 
H6D-MC-LVCQ 
Double-blind, 
4 centers, Australia 
placebo-contr
olled, parallel 
N=140 
Ages ≥18  
Males 
H6D-MC-LVCOa 
8 centers, Taiwan 
Double-blind, 
placebo-contr
olled, parallel 
N=196 
Ages ≥21 
Males 
H6D-MC-LVBK 
(patients with 
diabetes mellitus) 
18 centers, Spain 
Double-blind, 
placebo-contr
olled, parallel 
N=216 
randomized 
Ages ≥18 
Males 
Mild to severe ED 
12 weeks 
IC351 Market 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
No nitrate therapy 
No unstable 
angina 
SEP Q2,Q3 
Image 10 mg, 
20 mg; PRN, 
oral 
Mild to severe ED 
6 months; 
IC351 Market 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
3-month 
interim report 
submitted in 
the MAA 
12 weeks 
12 weeks 
No nitrate therapy 
No unstable 
angina 
Mild to severe ED 
No nitrate therapy 
No unstable 
angina 
Patients with 
diabetes mellitus, 
mild to severe ED 
No nitrate therapy 
No unstable 
angina 
Image 20 mg; 
PRN, oral 
SEP Q2,Q3 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
SEP Q2,Q3 
IIEF EF domain (Q1-Q5, Q15); 
SEP Q2,Q3 
IC351 Market 
Image 10 mg, 
20 mg; PRN, 
oral 
IC351 Market 
Image 10 mg, 
20 mg; PRN,  
oral 
Abbreviations: ED = Erectile Dysfunction; IIEF = International Index of Erectile Function Questionnaire; 
PRN = ‘as needed’, Q = question; SEP = Sexual Encounter Profile; MAA = Marketing Authorisation 
Application. 
a Samples were obtained for pharmacokinetic evaluation 
b All PRN doses are taken ‘as needed’ up to once daily 
All the pivotal trials incorporated a 4-week, treatment-free run-in period to establish baseline erectile 
function and sexual performance and efficacy was evaluated at 12 weeks (6 months in one study), as 
the change from the baseline assessment.  
Patients were instructed to take the tadalafil dose on demand, at any time prior to anticipated sexual 
activity  with  the  limit  of  a  maximum  frequency  of  one  (1)  dose  per  day.    It  seems  that  the  dosing 
instructions were deliberately non-specific and that tadalafil could be taken without regard to specific 
timing relative to sexual activity and without regard to food or alcohol.  
The study population were men in a stable monogamous relationship with a female partner and who 
reported at least a 3-month history of ED although most patients reported a history of at least 1 year 
duration. In relation to cardiovascular disease, patients were excluded if they were taking nitrates or 
suffered  unstable  cardiovascular  disease  including  unstable  angina,  New  York  Heart  Association 
(NYHA) Class 2 or greater congestive heart failure or uncontrolled hypertension. 
11/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy variables 
The trials used three co-primary variables. All of them measured the erectile function as perceived by 
the patient, one over the course of the last 4 weeks (IIEF erectile domain) and the other two by means 
of two direct questions recorded immediately after the sexual attempt (SEP questions 2 and 3). 
The  use  of  these  three  variables  as  co-primary  variables  is  considered  satisfactory  to  provide  an 
adequate  demonstration  of  efficacy.  The  instruments  of  measure  are  the  same  as  those  used  in 
previous submissions with other products to treat ED. 
• 
• 
The  IIEF  (International  Index  of  erectile  function)  is  a  self-administered  questionnaire, 
validated in over 30 languages and that is commonly used to assess the effect of ED therapy and 
to judge the severity of the disease. It assesses patients opinion on his erectile function over the 
prior 4 weeks.  
The  IIEF  has  15  questions  comprising  five  domains,  one  of  them  devoted  to  the  erectile 
function, as assessed by six questions that ask whether the patient can obtain erections during 
sexual  activity,  can  penetrate  his  partner,  and  can  maintain  an  erection  after  penetrating  his 
partner.  The domain also asks the patient to assess his difficulty in achieving erections and his 
confidence in his ability to achieve and maintain erections. The possible total score ranges from 
1 to 30.  
The  Sexual  Encounter  Profile  (SEP)  diary  consists  of  a  one-page  questionnaire  that  is 
completed  by  the  patient  shortly  after  each  sexual  attempt.  In  some  studies  identical 
questionnaires were provided to partners and they were instructed to complete independently, a 
separate SEP questionnaire. The SEP has five questions. Answers are scored as “Yes” or “No”. 
1.  Were you able to achieve at least some erection (some enlargement of the penis)? 
2.  Were you able to insert your penis into the partner's vagina? 
3. 
4.  Were you satisfied with the hardness of your erection? 
5.  Were you satisfied overall with this sexual experience? 
Did your erection last long enough for you to have successful intercourse? 
Questions 3 and 4 in the Overall Satisfaction Domain of the IIEF were secondary variables in primary 
efficacy studies. IIEF Question 3 asked patients, “When you attempted sexual intercourse, how often 
were  you  able  to  penetrate  (enter)  your  partner?”  IIEF  Question  4  asked  patients,  “During  sexual 
intercourse, how often were you able to maintain your erection after you had penetrated (entered) your 
partner?”  
Statistical analysis 
ANOVA  models  were  used  to  evaluate  change-from-baseline  efficacy  variables.  These  models 
included  terms  for  baseline  value  of  the  efficacy  variable,  treatment  group,  pooled  site,  and  the 
baseline-by-treatment-group  interaction  (if  significant,  p<0.10).  For  primary  efficacy  analyses, 
p-values were adjusted for  multiplicity as  multiple tadalafil doses were administered in most studies 
and multiple comparisons were made. 
Study populations 
The study population were men in a stable monogamous relationship with a female partner and who 
reported at least a 3-month history of ED although most patients reported a history of at least 1 year 
duration.  ED  was  of  psychogenic,  mixed  and  organic  etiology,  with  a  predominant  diagnosis  of  the 
two last categories. This population may be considered representative of the target population also in 
terms of age, concomitant hypertension or diabetes, alcohol or smoking. 
Elderly patients were also included in all the efficacy clinical trials. Efficacy in patients aged over 65 
years was evaluated with an integrated analysis across the five primary efficacy studies.   
Patients  suffering  from  ED  because  of  spinal  cord  injuries  or  other  neurological  diseases  as  well  as 
prostatectomized patients or patients after pelvic surgery or trauma have been excluded or are poorly 
represented in clinical trials. As the efficacy in these patients is unknown, an appropriate statement has 
been included in the SPC. 
12/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results  
Summary of Change from Baseline in IIEF EF Domain Scores (All Randomized Patients, 
Studies LVCO, LVCQ, and LVDJ) 
   ALL     Placebo  
    IC351 10mg               IC351 20mg 
                         -----  ----------   -----------------   ---------------------   
                         BASE   END    CHG    END    CHG     P      END    CHG     P 
IIEF Domains 
   Erectile Function 
      LVCO               15.7   18.1    2.6    22.6   8.1  <.001    25.0    8.0  <.001 
      LVCQ               15.4   13.0   -1.3                         23.7    7.7  <.001 
      LVDJ               15.0   14.5   -0.9    21.2   6.6  <.001    23.3    8.0  <.001 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------BASE = Mean over all patients at baseline (Visit 2) 
END = Mean within treatment group at endpoint 
CHG = Mean within treatment group of change from baseline to endpoint 
Summary of Change from Baseline in SEP Question 2 Scores (All Randomized Patients, Studies 
LVCO, LVCQ, and LVDJ) 
ALL      Placebo  
 IC351 10mg            IC351 20mg 
                         BASE   END    CHG      END    CHG     P     END    CHG     P 
Patient SEP Questions 
 2. Insert Penis into Vagina 
LVCO                     45.7   54.5    9.5    76.9   34.5  <.001   84.9   35.3  <.001 
LVCQ                     53.0   42.4   -7.2                         81.3   26.5  <.001 
LVDJ                     52.7   45.3   -6.4    72.5   21.3  <.001   76.0   21.3  <.001 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
BASE = Mean over all patients at baseline (Visit 2) 
 END = Mean within treatment group at endpoint 
 CHG = Mean within treatment group of change from baseline to endpoint. 
Summary of Change from Baseline SEP Question 3 Scores (All Randomized Patients, Studies 
LVCO, LVCQ, and LVDJ) 
ALL     Placebo          IC351 10mg            IC351 20mg 
                           BASE   END    CHG      END    CHG     P    END    CHG     P 
Patient SEP Questions 
   3. Successful Intercourse 
LVCO                      26.2   42.8   14.7      70.0   47.9  <.001  78.0   49.7  <.001 
LVCQ                      30.8   26.2    0.4                          74.1   40.7  <.001 
LVDJ                      27.9   31.9    4.9      56.7   32.8  <.001  61.5   29.0  <.001 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
BASE = Mean over all patients at baseline (Visit 2) 
 END = Mean within treatment group at endpoint 
 CHG = Mean within treatment group of change from baseline to endpoint. 
For each variable, population summarized consists of patients having both baseline and post-baseline data 
The  superiority  of  tadalafil  20  mg  versus  placebo  was  statistically  significant  and  clinically 
meaningful in all three co-primary variables and in all the trials. In all studies, doses of 2.5 mg, 10 mg, 
and 20 mg tadalfil significantly improved responses to SEP Question 2. The 5 mg dose significantly 
improved  the  response  to  SEP  Question  2  in  Study  LVCE.  In  all  studies,  all  doses  significantly 
improved patients’ ability to maintain their erection for successful intercourse compared with placebo. 
The mean improvement for all doses was at least 19%. 
Tadalafil 20 mg was consequently found to be superior to placebo in all-secondary variables in all the 
studies (global assessment question, rest of the Sexual Encounter Profile questions, IIEF Intercourse 
Satisfaction and Overall Satisfaction Domains).  
Treatment  with  tadalafil  5  mg,  10  mg,  and  20  mg  provided  significant  improvement  in  the  Overall 
Satisfaction Domain in all studies. All doses of tadalafil showed statistically significant improvement 
13/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
                                
       
 
in  IIEF  Question  3  compared  with  placebo  in  all  studies.  In  all  studies,  2.5mg,  10mg,  and  20  mg 
tadalafil  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  IIEF  Question  4  compared  with 
placebo. The 5 mg dose of tadalafil significantly improved the response to Question 4 in Study LVCE 
but not in Study LVBN (p=0.066). 
Efficacy  in  patients  aged  over  65  years  was  evaluated  with  an  integrated  analysis  across  the  five 
primary efficacy studies.  As assessed by all primary variables (IIEF EF Domain, SEP Question 2, and 
SEP  Question  3),  tadalafil  significantly  improved  erectile  function  in  a  similar  magnitude  to  that  in 
younger patients.  
A  pooled  analysis  of  responses  to  10  mg  and  20  mg  based  on  all  phase  III  trials  shows  statistically 
significant  differences  between  10  and  20  mg.  Albeit  the  magnitude  of  this  difference  is  rather 
marginal, a similar safety profile has been observed for both doses. 
The clinical relevance of the effect is also shown by the analysis of responders; taking as a responder 
the patients who achieved normal erectile function with treatment (patients who reach a score of 26 or 
greater). Across all studies and severities, 58.6% of patients who received 20mg tadalafil improved to 
the no-ED category (normal) at endpoint, compared with 39.7% for the 10mg tadalafil patient group 
and 10.9% for the placebo patient group. 
With respect to the choice of the starting dose, 20 mg or 10 mg, the applicant was of the view that the 
starting dose should be 20 mg and doses may be subsequently lowered based on individual response 
and tolerability. It was argued that because failure of ED therapy can worsen the psychological aspects 
of ED, patients should be treated initially with the most effective dose that is safe and well tolerated. 
This method of treatment of titrating downwards has not been the rule with previously accepted PDE5 
inhibitors and is not necessarily the optimal strategy taking into account that only a few patients are 
expected to obtain more benefit from the 20 mg dose than with the 10 mg dose. Therefore a starting 
dose of 10 mg was finally agreed.  
Specific studies intended to assess the period of responsiveness, to discriminate clearly the period of 
maximum responsiveness with tadalafil 20mg, were performed. These studies suggest a window that 
may  be  confirmed  by  the  data  obtained  from  clinical  trials.  Tadalafil  20  mg  shows  an  effect  at  
30 minutes post dose. With respect to the end of the period of responsiveness, there is evidence from 
one  clinical  trial  of  an  effect  at  24  and  36  hours  post  dose.  In  addition,  efficacy  at  24  hours  is  also 
supported by a pharmacodynamic study (Rigiscan).  
Data from the clinical trials, show that a substantial number of patients attempted sexual intercourse 
about  30  minutes  after  dosing,  and  difference  from  placebo  seems  to  be  confirmed.  However,  with 
respect  to  the  end  of  the  period,  there  were  not  enough  observations  at  specific  time-points  post  
14  hours  to  statistically  demonstrate  efficacy.  The  Posology  indicated  in  the  SPC  recommends  a 
window of opportunity between 30 minutes and 12 hours. 
There  are  insufficient  safety  data  to  allow  the  daily  doses  use  of  tadalafil  as  a  chronic  treatment.  
Since daily use could be seen as an attractive regimen to some patients, a clear sentence discouraging 
the chronic daily dosing has also been included in the posology section. 
• 
Comparative efficacy  
The comparative efficacy with sildenafil 50 and 100 mg is unclear. Three active comparator trials are 
submitted one of them with characteristics of a pilot study.  
In the first  well-designed  placebo  controlled trial, tadalafil  5  or  10  mg  appeared superior to placebo 
but it did not reach the non-inferiority margin as compared to sildenafil 50 and 100 mg.  
In another study, tadalafil  at the  maximum  20  mg  is compared  to sildenafil 50  mg  and  100  mg,  but 
several deficiencies in the design preclude the acceptance of non-inferiority.  
(cid:190)  As  many  as  half  of  the  patients  suffered  from  mild  ED  and  it  seems  that  there  were  patients 
included  that  did  not  suffer  from  erectile  dysfunction  according  to  the  baseline  IIEF  scores. 
Scores of 27 and 30 are the upper limit of the basal IIEF scores (normal 26-30). 
14/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:190)  Sildenafil  (and  tadalafil)  was  recommended  to  be  taken  1-5  hours  before  sexual  activity. 
However  SPC  recommends  that  Sildenafil  should  be  taken  one  hour  before  sexual  activity, 
based on PK/PD and clinical considerations. A window of 5 hours is considered too large and 
may have resulted in a lack of efficacy with sildenafil. 
The  comparison  of  the  tadalafil  efficacy  results  to  those  historically  shown  in  the  sildenafil  trials  is 
also very difficult because the patient populations and trial design are different. It is noted that in most 
studies the tadalafil population excluded those with prior lack of response to sildenafil and therefore, 
higher rates of response may be expected from tadalafil trials. Also, some relevant groups of patients 
such  as  those  who  had  radical  prostatectomy  (or  other  pelvic  surgery)  or  spinal  cord  injury,  with 
expected lower rates of success, have been excluded from tadalafil studies, while included in sildenafil 
trials. 
Therefore,  the  comparative  efficacy  of  tadalafil  versus  sildenafil  is  unknown.  However,  considering 
that this is a symptomatic treatment and that the assessment of individual responses to both products is 
feasible, it is considered acceptable to base the approval of efficacy only in comparison to placebo. 
• 
Long term efficacy 
After reviewing results from the 6 months trial (LVCQ), there is no evidence of the development of 
tolerance in efficacy. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
The  fourth  pivotal  trial  (LVBK)  was  performed  in  diabetics.  Tadalafil  10 mg  and  20  mg  showed 
consistent efficacy versus placebo. As supplementary information, a subgroup-analysis on the limited 
number  of  diabetic  patients  included  in  the  other  three  efficacy  trials,  also  demonstrate  efficacy  in 
these patients.  
Clinical safety 
Safety data are analysed from the following groups of studies: 
a) 
Placebo-controlled  clinical  studies  :  LVBN,  LVCE,  LVDJ,  LVCQ  (3-month  interim  data), 
LVCO, and LVBK. All these studies used the final formulation but at different dosages with a 
substantial proportion of patients using dosages lower than 20 mg. 
Open-Label, Long-Term Safety Studies : Studies LVBD and LVBL 
Sildenafil controlled clinical studies  
Clinical Pharmacology Studies. 
The  rest  of  the  phase  II  and  III  studies  are  only  analysed  individually  and  their  data  are  not 
integrated in any global analysis. 
b) 
c) 
d) 
e) 
For all completed studies, the last patient visit date was 19 April 2001. For all ongoing studies, serious 
adverse  events  are  reported  up  to  02  April  2001  and  deaths  are  reported  up  to  28  May  2001.  
However the cut-off date for analysis of the long-term studies is reported to be 1 March 2001. 
It is noted that most of the patients received doses inferior to the 20 mg.  
Patient exposure 
A  number  of  949  patients  were  randomized  to  receive  tadalafil  in  pivotal  placebo  controlled  phase  
3  studies  LVBN,  LVCE,  LVDJ,  LVCQ  (3-month  interim  data),  LVCO,  and  LVBK  (patients  with 
diabetes mellitus) and they are the subject of an integrated analysis, which is considered the primary 
placebo-controlled database.  
Due to the use of doses of 2.5  mg, 5 mg,  10 mg, and 20  mg, only 330 of them were randomized to 
receive 20 mg. However only 311 out of these 330 really received treatment. The mean length of study 
participation  was  approximately  90  days  and  patients  took  a  mean  of  25  to  30  doses  in  different 
treatment groups during the studies, which translated to a mean of approximately 2 doses per week. 
Therefore this primary data base accounts only for 311 patients receiving 20 mg doses. This contrasts 
with  the  number  of  3,571  patients  and  healthy  volunteers  that  have  received  the  product  during  the 
clinical development. 
15/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term  data  (>  3  months)  were  only  available  from  open  label  studies,  as  follow-up  of  patients 
after  their  participation  in  clinical  trials  (open  label  study  LVBL),  at  the  time  of  the  original 
submission. Subsequently some additional data became available: data from 111 subjects included in a 
6-months placebo controlled trial intended to assess the testicular safety and also the final 6 months 
report of trial LVCQ, where 93 patients received 20 mg tadalafil. 
At the time of the initial submission, up to 557 have received 20 mg up to 6 months and 88 patients up 
to a year (cut-off date 1 March 2001). Some information can be also obtained from another open label 
trial (LVBD) where the recommended 20 mg dose as the market image formulation, or its equivalent 
dose  or  higher  (25 mg,  50 mg)  as  the  co-precipitate  formulation,  was  taken  by  163  patients  for  
≥6 months, and by 143 patients for ≥12 months). 
Frequent adverse events  
In  placebo  controlled  efficacy  trials,  66.7 %  of  patients  receiving  the  20  mg  dose  experienced  a 
treatment emergent adverse event, compared to 54.3 % with 10 mg and 47.8 % with placebo. 
Headache,  dyspepsia,  back  pain,  myalgia,  rhinitis  (nasal  congestion),  and  vasodilatation  (flushing) 
occurred  in  more  than  2%  of  the  tadalafil-treated  patients  and  were  more  frequent  than  in  the 
placebo-treated  patients.    These  events  were  generally  less  frequent  for  the  2.5mg  and  5mg  dose 
groups and varied in incidence between studies. All these adverse reactions are known to happen with 
the other available PDE 5 inhibitors. The SPC includes the frequencies of occurrence and severities of 
the pool of doses 10-20mg. 
Headache is reported in placebo controlled clinical trials by 14.5 % of the patients (10-20 mg) versus 
5.5%  of  placebo  patients  and  more  frequently  in  healthy  volunteers.  The  duration  of  the  headache 
related  to  tadalafil  seems  to  be  around  3  to  8  hours  and  no  clear  increase  with  increasing  doses  is 
shown.  
Headache is a common adverse reaction of tadalafil, which is most probably related to its mechanism 
of action. Headaches may be severe and become a cause for discontinuation. Most cases appear with 
the  first  dose  of  treatment  and  their  incidence  seems  to  decrease  with  the  continued  dosing.  
Data analyses perfomed show that both, prevalence of headaches and incidence of the first headache, 
decrease over time in Phase 3 studies.  
Dyspepsia is possibly related to the relaxation of lower esophageal smooth muscle tone by inhibition 
of PDE5. Dyspepsia is reported in placebo-controlled clinical trials by 12.3 % of the patients (10-20 
mg) versus 1.9% of placebo patients.  
Back  pain  and  myalgia  was  observed  to  be  a  frequent  adverse  event  of  unknown  origin.  It  is  not 
related  to  physical  activity;  on  the  contrary,  it  was  more  frequent  in  healthy  volunteers  in  clinical 
pharmacology  studies.  From  the  pivotal  placebo-controlled  trials,  the  reported  incidence  after  
10-20mg  is  6.5%  suffering  back  pain  and  5.7%  myalgia,  versus  4.2%  and  1.9%  respectively  with 
placebo.  In  healthy  volunteers/patients  included  in  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  incidence  of  back 
pain was 28.2% versus 6.2% with placebo and the incidence of myalgia was 22.6% versus 5.5% with 
placebo. In patients with moderate renal impairment, 4 out of 6 patients reported back pain. 
Although in the sildenafil trials some cases of back pain were reported, the incidence of reported back 
pain  is  higher  with  tadalafil  in  comparison  with  sidenafil.  Around  a  16%  of  the  reported  back  pain 
were qualified as severe and it has been also the cause of discontinuation in some subjects. However it 
is difficult to definitively conclude about a possibly higher incidence or duration than with the other 
PDE inhibitor, sildenafil, that has a shorter duration of action. 
There  are  no  signs  of  an  inflammatory  or  myopathic  mechanism  involved  in  these  adverse  events  
(no changes in CK, ESR or other laboratory markers). The applicant proposes a hypothesis based on 
vasodilation and muscular vessel congestion, suggested by the fact that it seems to be more frequent in 
volunteers resting in bed and without activity. It is not known if the long duration of action may have a 
role in the appearance of this effect.  
Rhinitis/  nasal  congestion  and  Vasodilation  (flushing)  were  also  reported  to  be  associated  with 
treatment  and  again  they  are  not  unexpected  according  to  the  adverse  reactions  profile  of  previous 
PDE inhibitors (eg sildenafil). The incidence at 10-20 mg in placebo-controlled studies is around 4.3% 
and 4.1% for nasal congestion and flushing respectively 
16/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The applicant as related to tadalafil has considered no deaths or serious adverse events. Those cases 
considered  by  investigators  as  possibly  related  are  cardiovascular  or  cerebrovascular  accidents  that 
may also be explained by underlying diseases and, albeit from very limited data, there is no suggestion 
for an unexpected increase for these events in this high-risk population. 
Laboratory findings 
Haematology  laboratory  was  assessed  because  of  two  cases  of  idiosyncratic  neutropenia  and 
thrombocytopenia  that  were  observed  in  two  female  dogs  in  the  toxicology  program.  No  cases 
appeared  in  the  clinical  program.  Two  cases  of  clinically  significant  cases  of  neutropenia  were 
detected  but  alternative  causes  were  more  plausible  than  tadalafil  (recovery  without  stopping  long 
term treatment or a Hodgkin’s disease). It has to be recognised however that the number of patients is 
limited  and  that  some  of  them  have  received  doses  lower  than  the  finally  proposed  dose  of  10  mg. 
Therefore this should also be part of the post marketing surveillance. 
Safety in special populations 
The  clinical  safety  and  lack  of  interactions  in  diabetic  patients  was  also  addressed  during  the 
evaluation.  Although  the  specific  study  LVBK  does  not  suggest  changes  in  glucose  control  or  a 
different  profile  of  clinical  safety  than  in  non  diabetics,  the  population  size  receiving  20  mg  is  not 
completely reassuring; 72 patients in the specific study LVBK plus 43 patients included in the other  
3  pivotal  trials.  Taking  into  account  the  lack  of  specific  PD/PK  studies  in  diabetics  (e.g.  absence  of 
interaction study with oral hypoglycemic products, studies on blood pressure decrease), an appropriate 
statement of this lack of specific interaction studies with antidiabetic agents has been included in the 
SPC.  
In  the  group  of  patients  >75  years,  the  percentage  of  tadalafil  subjects  experiencing  any  emergent 
adverse events was observed to be much higher than in the corresponding placebo, unlike in other age 
groups. This is very likely to be due to the very low percentage of adverse events in the placebo group, 
possibly related to the very low numbers in that age groups. The lack of patients above 75 years of age 
does  not  allow  a  satisfactory  assessment  of  the  safety  profile  of  tadalafil  in  this  patient  population. 
However, taking into account the proposed restrictions in the SPC for patients with renal impairment 
and  other  disease conditions, data do  not suggest the need for specific  warnings based solely on the 
age. 
Comparative safety 
In spite of the submission of three studies controlled versus sildenafil, due to the limited sample size it 
cannot be concluded that tadalafil was better tolerated than sildenafil.  
The  only  comparative  study  where  tadalafil  20  mg  is  compared  to  sildenafil  provides  limited 
information  about  the  more  common  side  effects  of  both  products.  The  study  was  double  blind  by 
using encapsulated tablets of both products and there is no suggestion of an increased frequency of the 
common side effects. 
Similarly to  what  has  been concluded  in regard to  comparative  efficacy, there is not enough  data  to 
conclude  on  comparative  safety.  However,  due  to  the  nature  of  the  symptomatic  treatment  and  the 
nature of the so far expected adverse events, this may be considered acceptable.  
Other safety considerations 
Testicular toxicity on the long-term treatment has been a point for concern with this product, due to 
animal  experiments  that  have  shown  testicular  alterations.  Clinical  trials  have  been  designed  to  take 
the product on demand and therefore, only one study (LVCZ) provides safety data of the daily use of 
20  mg tadalafil. This study, intended to assess the effects on spermatogenesis, included 111 patients 
treated  daily  during  6  months.  A  few  additional  patients  received  different  doses  of  tadalafil  during  
5 days per week in phase III 12-week trials (n=28) and in the open label 6 months trial LVBL (n=32). 
All together, there are insufficient patients to assess the safety profile of 20 mg of tadalafil in chronic 
daily  use.  Furthermore  the  database  is  not  in  compliance  with  the  ICH  recommended  exposures  to 
assess clinical safety in chronic daily use.  
17/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore  the  currently  available  human  studies  do  not  provide  evidence  of  testicular  toxicity. 
Although  a  small  decrease  was  seen  in  sperm  concentration  in  one  study  after  a  6  months  daily 
treatment  with  10  mg,  it  is  acknowledged  that  the  magnitude  of  the  decrease  is  within  the  normal 
intraindividual variability, that there is a lack of consistent findings in motility or morphology and that 
a replicate study with 20 mg daily did not show any effect on sperm at 6 months. 
However,  the  possibility  of  toxicity  following  long-term  daily  dosing  exposure  and  the  effect  of 
tadalafil on human semen will be further investigated in a further long term study of 9 month duration, 
which  the  applicant  has  undertaken  to  carry  out  post-authorisation.  (The  currently  available  data  do 
not  allow  the  use  of  tadalafil  as  a  chronic  daily  treatment  and  daily  continued  use  is  strongly 
discouraged in the SPC). 
As with other PDE5 inhibitors there is a potential for decreasing the blood pressure, which might be of 
major concern in patients already taking antihypertensive products. The hypotensive effect of tadalafil 
seems modest but the submitted studies and the monitoring performed do not suggest that it does not 
exist.  Clinical  pharmacology  studies  with  intensive  monitoring  are  the  most  appropriate  sources  of 
information to quantify the magnitude of the effect; and in these studies, tadalafil was associated with 
a higher percentage of potentially clinically significant decreases in blood pressure compared to that of 
placebo.  The  potential  of  tadalafil  to  induce  such  decreases  in  blood  pressure  is  inferior  to  that  of 
nitrates  and  other  antihypertensive  products.  An  appropriate  sentence  recognising  the  low  
(but existing) potential for decreasing blood pressure has been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Tadalafil  decreases  the  blood  pressure  in  patients  treated  with  AT  II  receptor  antagonist  agents.  
This decrease is not very pronounced but it is important for individual patients. Cautionary advice has 
been included in the SPC on possible interactions of antihypertensive therapy and tadalafil. 
Analysis of adverse events potentially related to blood pressure decreases in clinical studies (syncopes, 
shock, hypotension, postural hypotension,dizzinness) do not suggest any relevant effects of tadalafil. 
However in spite of the limitations to assess causality, some cases of postural hypotension have been 
reported with tadalafil. This information has been included in the SPC. 
Pooled data from studies using 10 and 20mg doses of tadalafil have shown that around 10% of patients 
have  evidence  of  ischemic  cardiac  disease.  A  variety  of  other  cardiovascular  antecedents  (some  of 
them  of  little  relevance)  account  for  another  10%.  The  percentage  of  ischemic  heart  diseases, 
cerebrovascular  antecedents  or  clinically  relevant  cardiovascular  underlying  disorders,  although 
modest, allow assessment of the safety profile. It is borne in mind that as with other products for the 
erectile  dysfunction,  the  SPC  does  not  recommend  treatment  of  patients  whose  underlying 
cardiovascular  condition  is  so  severe  and  unstable  that  the  sexual  activity  itself  is  unadvisable. 
Nevertheless, cardiovascular safety does not seem  to be a major source of concern provided that  at-
risk patients excluded from clinical trials are considered as contraindications as stated in the SPC. 
In  tadalafil-treated  patients,  the  incidence  rates  of  cardiovascular  events  were  comparable  between 
patients who were treated with concomitant antihypertensive medications and patients who were not. 
Most cardiovascular events were infrequent (<1%). In the overall safety database, no differences were 
observed  in  the  rate  of  myocardial  infarctions  adjusted  to  100  man-years  compared  to  patients  who 
received placebo. 
However,  there  is  still  some  concern  regarding  the  safety  of  tadalafil  in  patients  taking  concomitant 
antihypertensive  medications,  and  therefore  appropriate  information  on  the  potential  effect  on  blood 
pressure,  also  in  addition  to  antihypertensive  treatment,  is  included  in  the  SPC.  The  applicant  has 
undertaken to conduct a Post marketing Surveillance Study in which the cardiovascular risk in real use 
conditions will also be assessed. The protocol will be submitted and assessed by the CPMP. 
Spontaneous  erections  have  been  reported,  sometimes  painful  or  uncomfortable.  Although  none  of 
them were of a duration long enough to qualify as a priapism a cautionary statement has been included 
in the SPC.  
18/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
OVERALL CONCLUSIONS, BENEFIT/RISK ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATION 
Quality 
The important quality characteristics of the active substance are well defined and controlled, and the 
product  is  formulated,  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  way  that  is  characteristic  for  this  kind  of 
medicinal products. The specifications and batch analytical results indicate a consistent product with a 
uniform clinical performance from batch to batch. At the time of the CPMP opinion there were some 
outstanding  minor  quality  issues  which  had  no  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  profile.  The  applicant 
committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up  measures  within  an  agreed  timeframe, 
and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of this additional information. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  preclinical  studies  have  adequately  characterised  the  pharmacology  and  toxicology  of  the 
compound. The pharmacological studies performed have provided information on the  mechanism of 
action and expected effects. Safety pharmacology studies performed do not suggest relevant adverse 
events. 
Overall,  the  most  important  concern  relates  to  the  testicular  findings  in  dogs  after  repeated 
administration  of  tadalafil  that  consisted  of  degeneration,  vacuolation  and  atrophy  of  seminiferous 
tubular  epithelium.  Taking  into  account  that  these  findings  may  also  apply  to  humans  an  additional 
clinical study will be conducted post authorisation. These pre-clinical and clinical testicular findings 
have been appropriately addressed in the SPC.  
Efficacy 
The efficacy of tadalafil at 10 and 20mg doses has been adequately demonstrated. The 20 mg has not 
been  proven  substantially  more  efficacious  than  10  mg  (which  is  clearly  better  than  placebo).  
The  results  of  analyses  from  pooled  trials  and  by  post-hoc  responder  analyses  suggest  a  marginally 
better effect of the 20mg dose although no dose titration studies are available exploring the response to 
higher doses in those patients who failed to respond to 10mg. Therefore a starting dose of 10mg was 
discussed and agreed by the CPMP and applicant. 
The  agreed  posology  recommends  that  tadalafil  “can  be  taken  up  to  12  hours  and  as  early  as  
30  minutes  prior  to sexual activity”. The  maximum  recommended dosing frequency  is  once per day 
and daily use of tadalafil is strongly discouraged. 
There is no experience in patients with either liver or kidney impairment and, in both cases, exposure 
to tadalafil is increased. A starting dose of 10mg has been agreed for these patient populations.  
Most of the interaction trials were carried out at the chosen dose of 10 mg.   
Safety 
The most frequently reported adverse events associated with tadalafil were headache, dyspepsia, back 
pain, myalgia, and flushing and nasal congestion. Subgroup analyses showed no difference in adverse 
events for patients taking tadalafil in patients >65 years of age, patients with diabetes mellitus, patients 
with hypertension, and patients taking concomitant antihypertensive medications. 
Overall  discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  in  tadalafil  -  treated  patients  were  low  and  not 
statistically  different  from  placebo-treated  patients.  The  overall  mortality  and  rate  of  cardiovascular 
events do not reveal relevant differences. So far the only aspect that is of concern is related with the 
pre-clinical findings of testicular toxicity. 
With  the  appropriate  cautions/contraindications  that  have  been  mentioned  in  the  SPC,  the 
cardiovascular  safety  profile  of  tadalafil  appears  favourable.  However,  some  mechanism  of  action 
related vasodilating effect is to be expected. It is shown that tadalafil further decreases blood pressure 
in patients treated with some antihypertensive substances (i.e. AT II receptor antagonists) Even if the 
decrease seems minor it cannot be excluded that it is important for individual patients. This possibility 
cannot be completely excluded when infrequent cardiovascular events in patients on antihypertensive 
therapy  (and  tadalafil  or  placebo)  are  considered.  In  this  respect,  the  Company  has  undertaken  to 
19/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
conduct  a  posmarketing  observational  study  (prescription  event  monitoring)  similar  to  that  being 
conducted with sildenafil. 
Although  it  has  been  shown  that  there  are  no  signs  of  testicular  toxicity  in  patients  treated  with  the 
proposed 20 mg dose (daily for six months), further reassurance is required. A study investigating the 
characteristics of human semen over a period of 9 months has been proposed and will be undertaken 
by the applicant post-authorisation. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Cialis (tadalafil) is a member of the group of PDE-5 inhibitors intended to treat erectile dysfunction.  
The  main  clinical  differential  characteristic  of  tadalafil  appears  to  be  its  long  half-life  (around  
17.5  hours)  that  suggests  a  longer  therapeutic  windows  (time  before  the  anticipated  sexual  activity 
during which the drug can be taken).  This  can  be considered, at least in some  instances, a desirable 
feature but it can be speculated that it may also result in specific disadvantages.  
A  concern  on  testicular  toxicity  has  been  raised  based  on  the  finding  on  tadalafil  related  testicular 
alterations in dogs. Results from two 6-month studies in volunteers suggest that this effect is unlikely 
in humans. A further study in humans to study the characteristics of semen has been proposed by the 
applicant and will be carried out post-authorisation. 
As a summary, the benefit-risk balance for CIALIS can be considered positive.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Cialis  in  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
20/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
