European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 April 2007 
Product Name: Cialis 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000436/X/26-27 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
Lilly  ICOS  Limited  has  submitted  an  application  through  the  Centralised  Procedure  for  Cialis  film-
coated tablet containing 2.5 mg and 5 mg of the active substance tadalafil. 
The  application  is  an  extension  of  the  existing  Cialis  10  mg  and  20  mg  film-coated  tablets 
(EU/1/02/237/001)-  (EU/1/02/237/002-005)  approved  in  November  2002  in  accordance  with  Article 
8.3 (i) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
As  an  alternative,  the  applicant  applied  for  a  new  regimen:  the  new  strengths  (2,  5  mg  and  5  mg) 
would be taken once daily as opposed to the current approved as-needed regimen (10 mg and 20 mg) 
used in the general population of patients with erectile dysfunction. 
The active substance, tadalafil, is a potent selective, reversible inhibitor of phosphodiesterase type 5 
(PDE5).  When  sexual  stimulation  causes 
inhibition  of 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), produces an increase of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) 
in the corpus cavernosum. The result of this process is a smooth muscle relaxation and inflow of blood 
flow  into  the  penile  tissues,  thereby  producing  erection.  Tadalafil  has  no  effect  in  the  absence  of 
sexual stimulation.  
local  release  of  nitric  oxide, 
the 
The  finished  product  is  formulated  as  film-coated  tablets;  the  composition,  packaging  material, 
manufacturing  process,  specifications  and  stability  are  practically  the  same  as  the  existing  Cialis 
tablets. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Active Substance 
The active substance tadalafil has already been approved for Cialis 10 mg and 20 mg.  
The company refers to the currently approved dossier for Cialis 10 mg and 20 mg for all quality 
information related to tadalafil. No changes are required or provided to support the new 2.5 mg and 5 
mg tablets strengths. Therefore the information has not been repeated. 
2/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The objective was to obtain tablets with an absorption rate allowing a rapid onset of action, with good 
stability properties, and of reproducible quality at commercial scale. 
Studies carried out on the active substance showed that : thermodynamically stable, crystalline, non-
hygroscopic  and  micronised  tadalafil  is  incorporated  into  a  wet  granulation  to  consistently  produce 
tablets with good homogeneity and the desired dissolution characteristics.  
As  the  in  vivo  absorption  of  Class  2  drugs  (low  solubility  and  high  permeability)  is  typically 
dissolution  rate-limited,  the  impact  of  the  particle  size  of  tadalafil  was  investigated  and  micronised 
tadalafil was retained. Also, bioavailability studies, demonstrated that Tadalafil 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg 
Tablets  are  bioequivalent.    Therefore  the  approved  particle  size  specification  for  Tadalafil  10  and  
20 mg Tablets is also applicable to 2.5 and 5 mg tablets. It was demonstrated that the crystalline form 
remained unchanged after the tablet manufacturing process. 
Excipients  used  for  the  2.5  and  5  mg  tablets  are  identical  to  those  used  for  the  approved  tablets: 
combination  of  lactose  monohydrate  and  spray  dried  lactose  monohydrate  to  promote  a  rapid 
dissolution;  hydroxypropylcellulose 
(disintegration  agent), 
laurisulfate  (wetting  agent)  and  magnesium  stearate  (lubricant).  Sufficient  data  are  provided  for  the 
excipients (compendial or non-compendial) used in the core and the coating mixture of the tablets. 
(binder);  croscarmellose  sodium 
The formulation development showed that the combination of ingredients consistently produce a free-
flowing,  compressible,  and  easily  wetted  material,  as  well  as  tablets  with  low  friability,  acceptable 
hardness, and rapid disintegration.  
All  formulas  for  the  2.5,  5,  10,  and  20  mg  core-tablets  are  qualitatively  identical  and  in  percentage 
quantitatively  very  similar,  with  a  concomitant  adjustment  of  lactose  monohydrate  and  magnesium 
stearate.The coating has minimal impact on the dissolution of tadalafil from the tablets. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  based  upon  the  process  approved  for  Cialis  10  mg  and  20  mg.  
The  process  is  robust,  reproducible  and  ensures  the  production  of  homogeneous  and  bioavailable 
tablets containing 2.5 and 5 mg of tadalafil. 
The packaging materials are the same as those approved for Cialis 10 mg and 20 mg i.e blister made of 
PVC/PE/Aclar with PVC in contact with the product. 
As  a  conclusion,  the  pharmaceutical  development  of  the  drug  product  is  the  same  as  Cialis  10  and  
20  mg  and  has  been  sufficiently  described.  The  justifications  for  the  choice  of  the  excipients, 
packaging material, and manufacturing process are acceptable.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  ingredients  used  is  neither  of  ruminant  nor  human  origin  with  the  exception  of  lactose.  
The supplier of lactose certifies it is in compliance with TSE Directive 1999/82 EEC and the Public 
Statement EMEA/CPMP/571/02. It is excluded from the scope of “Note for Guidance on Minimizing 
the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agent  via  Human  and  Veterinary 
Medicinal  Products.”EMEA/410/01  rev  2  since  the  milk  is  sourced  from  healthy  animals  and  in  the 
same conditions as milk collected for human consumption.  The current scientific knowledge is that 
materials derived from milk are unlikely to present any risk of TSE contamination.   
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process for the 2.5 and 5 mg tablets is adequately described and consists of: high 
shear wet granulation, wet milling, drying, dry milling, blending, compression, coating/polishing.   
The  manufacturing process  and  in-process  controls  (thickness,  friability,  hardness,  tablet  weight  and 
disintegration) for 2.5 and 5 mg tablets are identical to those approved for the existing tablets with the 
3/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following  exception:  reduced  cone  mill  screen  size  used  in  the  dry  sizing  step  for  the  2.5  mg 
granulation.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  complete  the  validation  process  at  both  manufacturing 
sites prior to commercial launch. This is acceptable. 
•  Product Specification 
The  proposed  specification  is  identical  to  the  one  approved  for  the  approved  tablets,  except  for  the 
physical  appearance  and  the  content  of  water  that  is  not  performed  and  justified.  Specification  at 
release and end of shelf-life includes: identification, assay, uniformity of content, related substances, 
appearance, microbial quality, identification of colorants, dissolution. The impurity profile for the 2.5 
mg and 5 mg remains the same as for 10 and 20 mg tablets; no new impurities have been detected.  
Analytical  procedures  for  the  2.5  and  5  mg  tablets  are  similar  to  those  previously  approved  for  the  
10  and  20  mg  tablets  apart  from  adjustments  allowing  analysis  of  the  lower  strengths.  
The methodology remains essentially unchanged. Validation of those analytical procedures has been 
satisfactorily conducted in accordance with ICH guidelines. 
Satisfactory  batch  analyses  of  3  lots  of  each  strength  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  have  been  provided.  Data 
demonstrate that the proposed manufacturing process is adequately controlled, and that the quality of 
the tablets manufactured for clinical trials, primary stability, and validation are comparable. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Primary  stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  under  ICH  conditions,  and  using  the  commercial 
packaging on: 3 pilot batches of 2.5 mg (24 months at 30ºC/65% RH, 6 months at 40ºC/75% RH and 
supporting  data  for  1  batch,  60  months  at  25ºC/60%  RH)  and  3  commercial  batches  of  5  mg  (36 
months  at  25ºC/60%  RH,  6  months  at  40ºC/75%  RH  and  supporting  data  for  1  batch,  36  months  at 
30ºC/70% RH). No significant trend of change could be observed at any of the storage conditions even 
after stress testing (such as heat, moisture, photostability). Based on the data, a shelf-life of 3 years can 
be granted as for the existing tablets. 
The applicant has committed to perform stability studies on commercial batches for 2.5 mg tablets and 
to submit the results when available. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Cialis  2.5 mg  and  5 mg  film-coated  tablets  have  been  developed  based  on  the  already  authorized 
strengths. The composition of the two new strengths is qualitatively similar to the existing strengths.  
Bioavailability studies, demonstrated that Tadalafil 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg Tablets are bioequivalent. 
The  results  of  test  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  product  quality 
characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  new  strengths  should  have  a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  provided  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve it as Follow-Up Measure after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
4/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic,  and  toxicology  studies  with  tadalafil  PDE5  inhibitor  were 
performed and submitted to support the original marketing application of tadalafil, 10 and 20 mg taken 
as needed for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). 
Within  this  extension  application  (2.5  and  5  mg  strengths  used  in  a  new  dosage  regimen),  no 
additional  non  clinical  studies  were  conducted.  However,  a  comparison  of  the  safety  for  doses 
administered  in  repeat-dose  toxicology  studies  versus  clinical  steady-state  exposure  at  the  proposed 
5mg tadalafil dose was made and an updated environmental risk assessment (ERA) was submitted. 
•  Table 1 Comparison of  Margins of Safety (Based on AUC) to Tadalafil in Rat, Dog, and 
Human 
Species/Dose 
AUC0-24hr (ng•hr/mL) 
Margin of Safetya 
(based on unbound 
tadalafil) 
Humanb 
5 mg/day 
Male 
2155 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Rat, Day 168 (6-Month Study, Toxicology Report 4) 
60 mg/kg/day c 
29100 
82900 
Dog, Day 176 (6-Month Study, Toxicology Report 23) 
10 mg/kg/day d 
400 mg/kg/day e  
3772 to 6882 
31384 to 91270 
4105 to 6202 
41786 to 129341 
Dog, Day 364 (12-Month Study, Toxicology Report 36) 
25 mg/kg/day f, g  
8576 to 43136 
8792 to 68012 
18 
51 
4-7 
32-92 
4-6 
42-130 
9-43 
9-68 
Rat, Day 19 (Segment II/III, Toxicology Report 39, ADME Report 
45) 
30 mg/kg/day f 
55590 
34 
a  Margin  of  Safety  =  (AUC  in  animals)*(fraction  unbound)/(AUC  in  humans)*(fraction  unbound).  
Multiple  of  unbound  tadalafil  calculated  using  in  vitro  protein  binding.    Mean  percent  bound  in 
vitro in human plasma is 94%, in rat plasma is 92%, and in dog plasma is 87%. 
b  Plasma  pharmacokinetic  data  used  in  calculations  were  determined  at  steady  state  following  five 
daily  doses  of    5  mg  tadalafil  (market  image)  in  healthy  men  and  women  (Study  LVAU).   
In humans, no gender difference has been observed in pharmacokinetics parameters. 
c  No observed adverse effect level (NOAEL). 
d  No observed effect level (NOEL) for males. 
e  No observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for females. 
f  No observed effect level (NOEL) for females. 
g  No observed effect level (NOEL) for males was not determined. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Taking into account the current usage due to the approved 10 and 20 mg tadalafil on demand dosing 
schedule  and  the  predicted  additional  usage  with  the  proposed  2.5  and  5  mg  tadalafil  once-a-day 
5/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dosing schedule, less than 3000 kg of the active ingredient in Cialis is expected to be used in a year in 
Europe resulting in maximum expected concentrations in the surface water of 0.003 µg/L.  
Given its water solubility, low octanol-water partition coefficient, and low sludge-sorption coefficient, 
tadalafil is not expected to accumulate in sewage sludge or tissue.  
Acute  toxicity  was  not  found  for  rainbow  trout,  daphnids  or  sewage-sludge  microorganisms  at  the 
highest tested concentration, 2 mg/L (limited by water solubility).  
The  predicted  no  effect  concentration  (PNEC)  is  more  than  650  times  higher  than  the  maximum 
concentration calculated for surface water.  
Terrestrial mammals drinking sewage influent at a rate of 10% of their body weight per day would be 
exposed  to  tadalafil  at  a  level  that  is  more  than  3  million  times  lower  than  the  NOEL  (10  mg/kg) 
determined in a 6- month dog toxicology study. The highest exposure from sewage influent would also 
be more than 16000 times lower than a therapeutic dose in humans.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Having considered that doses up to 20 mg day of tadalafil are currently administered to patients and 
that non clinical findings have been evaluated in clinical studies and determined to be species specific 
with little relevance to clinical safety, the CHMP considered that the previously submitted non clinical 
program for 10 and 20 mg tadalafil could adequately support the new proposed doses of 2.5 and 5 mg 
tadalafil. 
With respect to the safety margins, no further concerns were raised. Although continuous dosing may 
have a different pharmacological and toxicological profile than pulsatile dosing, the CHMP considered 
that this concern was adequately addressed with the previously submitted non clinical program for 10 
and 20 mg tadalafil which included continuous administration. 
With  respect  to  the  update  of  the  environmental  risk  assessment,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the 
presented  data  suggested  the  environmental  exposure  to  tadalafil  to  be  expected  very  low,  with 
concentrations far in excess of the NOEL observed in animal studies and therefore no concerns were 
anticipated.  
However according to the ERA guideline (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the CHMP raised a concern 
about the lack of long-term toxicity data in fish. To address this issue, the MAH committed to conduct 
a standard early life stage study in fathed minnows (OECD Guideline 210) as a follow up measure, the 
study being initiated around Q3/2007. 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
On  12  November  2002,  the  dose  formulation  originally  authorised  were  tadalafil  10  mg  and  20  mg 
film-coated tablets in the current approved indication i.e treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED).  
The  current  approved  dosage  of  10  mg  or  20  mg  are  intended  for  use  prior  to  anticipated  sexual 
activity and not recommended for continuous daily use. 
The present extension application concerned new proposed doses of 2.5 and 5 mg tadalafil film-coated 
tablets  to  be  used  once  a  day  in  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction.  The  proposed  recommended 
starting dose is 5 mg tadalafil orally once a day for most patients. The 2.5 mg dose of tadalafil may 
provide efficacy for some men; therefore, the 5 mg tadalafil may be decreased to 2.5 mg tadalafil once 
a day based on individual tolerability. 
The clinical development program to support these new proposed doses (5mg and 2.5 mg used once a 
day)  consisted  of  the  3  phase  III  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel  design 
multicenter studies e.g: 
-  Study  H6D-MC-LVCV  (or  LVCV)  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  tadalafil  5  mg  and  
10 mg once a day in male subjects with ED; 
6/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Study H6D-MC-LVFP (or LVFP) was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tadalafil 2.5 and 5 mg 
administered once a day in male subjects with ED; 
- Study H6D-MC-LVFZ (or LVFZ) was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tadalafil 2.5 mg and 5 
mg administered once a day in male subject with diabetes mellitus and ED. 
Previously, a number of studies to investigate the clinical pharmacology (e.g  H6D-EW-LVBX , H6D-
EW-LVAU) of tadalafil have been performed and submitted to support the current approved doses of 
10  mg  and  20  mg.  The  MAH  referred  to  those  studies  to  support  the  two  proposed  2.5  and  5  mg 
strengths.  
Additionally,  to  support  the  new  dosing  regimen  ‘once  a  day  administration’  for  2.5  and  5  mg 
tadalafil, the applicant provided a pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis from a subset of subjects enrolled in 
the Phase 3 study H6D-MC-LVFP. The results from this PK analysis were compared with the results 
obtained  from  a  subset  of  subject  enrolled  in  the  Phase  3  study  H6D-MC-LVCE  ‘as  needed 
administration’, previously submitted in the original MAA.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
(cid:131)  Pharmacokinetics for Once-a-Day Dosing of tadalafil 2.5 and 5 mg  
The pharmacokinetic analysis included 359 concentration observations from 66 subjects administered 
tadalafil  2.5  or  5  mg  once  a  day  from  Phase  3  study  H6D-MC-LVFP.  Data  were  analysed  using 
population-based techniques.  
The  pharmacokinetic  data  obtained  after  once-a-day  dosing  of  tadalafil  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  was 
described by a one-compartment model with a rapid first-order absorption rate (1.01 h-1).  
The  typical  estimate  (%SEE)  for  CL/F  was  1.87  L/h  (5.13%)  and  was  similar  to  the  value  of 
approximately 1.6 L/h reported in Study H6D-MC-LVCE.  
The final model predicted that a 70-kg individual would have a V/F of 50.8 L, which was consistent 
with tadalafil distribution into tissues.  
Subject  factors  examined  as  potential  covariates  were  prospectively  defined  based  upon  previous 
population pharmacokinetic analyses: dose group, age, body weight, BMI, height, GGT, investigator, 
time on therapy, history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes and ED severity. None of the covariates 
investigated were found to be a predictor of CL/F, and only body weight significantly influenced V/F.  
(cid:131)  Comparative PK analysis between ‘As-Needed Dosing’ and ‘Once-a-Day Dosing’ 
Typical CL/F estimates from studies LVCE and LVFP were similar. Furthermore, the 95% confidence 
intervals  demonstrated  considerable  overlap,  supporting  the  concordance  across  studies  and  dosing 
regimens.  
The  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  of  tadalafil  were  similar  irrespective  of  as-
needed or once-a-day administration.  
Importantly, the similarity of ka, CL/F, and V/F values, and the distribution of these estimates between 
as-needed and once-a-day administration, indicated that systemic exposure to tadalafil was comparable 
between these regimens at equivalent doses and dosing intervals (See Table 2). 
7/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
The systemic exposure to tadalafil was not influenced by cardiovascular conditions, diabetes, hepatic 
function (GGT), or severity of ED. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Main studies  
Three  Phase  3,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-design,  multicenter  studies 
(LVCV, LVFP, and LVFZ) and two open-label extension periods (LVCV and LVFP) were conducted 
to support the proposed 2.5 and 5 mg new doses of tadalafil used as once a day dosing. 
These studies were conducted in Australia (LVFZ), Europe (LVCV, LVFZ), Latin America (LVCV), 
Canada  and  Mexico  (LVFZ)  and  US  (LVFP,  LVFZ).  The  design  of  these  studies  is  summarised  in 
Table 3. 
Table 3 
METHODS 
Efficacy endpoints 
Each study used the same three co-primary efficacy variables: the Erectile Function (EF) Domain of 
the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) and patient Sexual Encounter Profile diary (SEP) 
Questions 2 (Q2) and 3 (Q3).  
Secondary  measures  included  the  IIEF  Intercourse  Satisfaction  Domain,  the  Overall  Satisfaction 
Domain, individual IIEF questions 3 and 4, SEP Q4 and Q5 and the partner SEP diary, the two Global 
Assessment Questions (GAQ).  
8/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional secondary endpoints were: Psychological and Interpersonal Relationship Scales (PAIRS) in 
study LVFP; the proportion of subjects with an IIEF EF Domain score <26 at baseline that achieved 
an  IIEF  EF  Domain  score  ≥26  at  endpoint  (indicating  “no  ED”),  Self-Esteem  and  Relationship 
Questionnaire (SEAR) and Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSE) in study LVFZ. 
Study design 
Study periods were as follows: 4-week treatment-free run-in period (studies LVCV, LVFP, LVFZ) + 
Placebo-controlled double-blind treatment period (12 weeks in studies LVCV and LVFZ; 24 weeks in 
study    LVFP)  +  one-year  (study  LVCV)  or  2-year  (study  LVFP)  open-label  extension  period  of 
tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing + four-week treatment-free follow-up period (study LVCV).  
Only the planned 1-year interim analysis of Study LVFP is included in this present application since 
the second year open-label extension period is ongoing. 
Statistical method 
Primary and secondary outcomes were analysed on an intent-to-treat basis, using the last-observation-
carried-forward  (LOCF)  methods.  IIEF  responses  were  analysed  as  change  from  baseline  to  study 
endpoint. The endpoint SEP score was the subject’s percentage of ‘yes’ responses to that question at 
the end of the treatment period or final treatment visit.  
Efficacy for the extension period has been evaluated by comparing IIEF EF Domain baseline values 
prior to the placebo-controlled period with the extension period endpoint values. 
Significance  for  the  co-primary  efficacy  endpoints  was  declared  if  and  only  if  the  p-values  for  the 
individual hypotheses tests were all <0.05. No adjustments for testing multiple endpoints were applied 
to the primary efficacy analyses. 
Study populations 
Studies LVCV and LVFP  
- inclusion criteria: subjects (≥18 years old) with at least a 3-month history of mild to severe ED of 
psychogenic,  organic,  or  mixed  etiology.  ED  was  defined  as  a  consistent  change  in  the  quality  of 
erection that adversely affected satisfaction with sexual intercourse.  
- main exclusion criteria: ED secondary to other primary sexual disorders or endocrinopathy, radical 
prostatectomy  (with  the  exception  of  bilateral  nerve-sparing  prostatectomy),  ineffective  prior 
treatment with sildenafil citrate in the opinion of the investigator (study LVCV), ineffective treatment 
with phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors (study LVFP). 
- study treatment arms: Tadalafil 2.5 mg once a day (study LVFP), Tadalafil 5 mg once a day (studies 
LVCV  and  LVFP),  Tadalafil  10  mg  once  a  day  (study  LVCV).  Placebo  treatment  groups  were 
included in both studies. 
-  randomisation:  subjects  were  stratified  by  geographic  region  and  baseline  IIEF  EF  Domain  score 
categories: mild (17 through 30), moderate (11 through 16), and severe (1 through 10). Subjects were 
then randomly assigned to treatment groups in a 1:2:2 manner (placebo, tadalafil 5 mg, and tadalafil 
10  mg)  for  study  LVCV,  and  a  1:1:1  manner  (placebo,  tadalafil  2.5  mg,  tadalafil  5  mg)  for  study 
LVFP. 
Study LVFZ  
Eligibility  (Inclusion/Exclusion)  criteria  for  study  LVFZ  were  similar  to  studies  LVCV  and  LVFP. 
However, all subjects in Study LVFZ also had at least a 3-month history of diabetes. 
Patients were randomised to tadalafil 2.5 mg once a day, tadalafil 5 mg once a day, or placebo (1.1:1). 
9/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Demographic and baseline characteristics 
The demographics and baseline characteristics of the study populations in studies LVCV, LVFP, and 
LVFZ were similar except all subjects in study LVFZ had diabetes mellitus.  
Overall, the proportion of patients older than 65 years ranged from 23% to 29% across studies, with a 
slightly  higher  proportion  of  patients  older  than  65  years  old  in  study  LVFP.  Patients  were  well 
balanced across treatment groups and across studies with regard to erectile dysfunction severity.  
The predominant ethnic origin in tadalafil once-a-day dosing studies was Caucasian (>82%).  
Approximately 14% to 15% of subjects in the general population studies had diabetes. All subjects in 
study  LVFZ  had  diabetes.  The  percentage  of  subjects  with  systemic  arterial  hypertension  was  also 
lower in study LVCV (ranging between 25.7% and 34.3% across treatment groups) while in studies 
LVFP and LVFZ ranged from 40.6% to 55.0%). Fewer subjects in study LVCV (from 32.1% to 43%) 
reported  a  history  of  cardiovascular  disease  at  baseline  than  those  in  studies  LVFP  (47%  to  53.2%) 
and LVFZ (60.0% to 63.3%). 
Demographics and baseline characteristics were generally similar for general population studies in the 
once-a-day dosing and the as-needed dosing programs, with a lower proportion of diabetic patients in 
the once-a-day studies and a higher proportion of  subjects who had hypertension and cardiovascular  
diseases. 
For  stratification  and  data  analysis,  ED  severity  was  categorised  based  on  the  baseline  IIEF  EF 
Domain  score  as  mild  (score  of  17-30),  moderate  (score  of  11-16),  or  severe  (score  of  1-10).  Mean 
IIEF EF Domain scores at baseline of each treatment group ranged from 12.6 to 14.1 (moderate ED 
severity category).  
Subjects  were  included  based  on  a  clinical  diagnosis  of  ED.  Forty-nine  subjects  who had  a  baseline 
IIEF EF Domain score of 26 or greater (“no ED”) were included.  
Studies LVCV and LVFP (including open label extension periods) 
Recruitment / Numbers analysed 
- Study LVCV  included 268 subjects (54 subjects in the placebo group and 214 subjects in the tadalafil 
treatment  groups)  with  an  average  age  of  56  years.  A  total  of  234  subjects  (87.3%)  completed  the 
placebo-controlled  double-blind  treatment  period.  Most  of  the  subjects  that  completed  the  treatment 
period  enrolled  in  the  open-label  extension  period  (n=183,  78%).  A  protocol  addendum  allowed  51 
additional and new subjects from Argentina to enroll directly into the open-label extension period to 
meet  the  enrolment  requirements.  Thus,  a  total  of  234  subjects  were  enrolled  and  208  subjects 
completed  the  open-label  extension  period.  A  total  of  207  subjects  completed  the  treatment-free 
follow-up period. 
- Study LVFP included 287 subjects (94 subjects in the placebo group and 193 subjects in the tadalafil 
treatment groups) with an average age of 60 years. Most of the subjects (N=238, 82.9%) completed 
the placebo-controlled double-blind treatment period. A total of 238 subjects enrolled in the tadalafil 5 
mg 2-year open-label extension period. A total of 162, (68.1%) completed the first year of the 2-year 
open-label extension period. 
Efficacy – Co-primary Endpoints 
Results are shown for studies LVCV and LVFP in Tables 4 and 5 
10/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 
Table 5 
Tadalafil  2.5  mg,  5  mg  and  10  mg  once-a-day  dosing  significantly  improved  erectile  function 
compared  with  placebo  for  each  of  the  co-primary  endpoints  at  12  weeks  (p<0.001  each  tadalafil 
group). 
Efficacy – Secondary Endpoints 
- GAQ Q1 and GAQ Q2 
The proportions of subjects with positive responses to GAQ Q1 at the end of the 12-week treatment 
periods  were  as  follows:  29.6%,  placebo  (study  LVCV);  28.6%,  placebo  (study  LVFP);  66.0%, 
tadalafil 2.5 mg;  84.5%, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVCV); 76.1%, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVFP); 84.6%, 
tadalafil 10 mg. 
The  proportions  of  subjects  with  positive  responses  to  GAQ  Q2  were  as  follows:  27.8%%,  placebo 
(study LVCV); 24.2%, placebo (study LVFP), 60.6%, tadalafil 2.5 mg; 77.7%, tadalafil 5 mg (study 
LVCV); 72.8%, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVFP); 80.8%, tadalafil 10 mg. 
11/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- IIEF Intercourse Satisfaction and IIEF Overall Satisfaction Domain scores 
IIEF Intercourse Satisfaction and IIEF Overall Satisfaction Domain scores were similar among all of 
the treatment groups and scores improved significantly with tadalafil 2.5 mg, 5 mg, and 10 mg once-a-
day dosing compared with placebo.  
IIEF Intercourse Satisfaction Domain score placebo-adjusted mean changes from baseline (LS mean 
differences)  were  as  follows:  1.1,  tadalafil  2.5  mg;  3.1,  tadalafil  5  mg  (study  LVCV);  1.9,  tadalafil 
5 mg (study LVFP); 2.7, tadalafil 10 mg. 
IIEF  Overall  Satisfaction  Domain  score  placebo-adjusted  mean  changes  from  baseline  (LS  mean 
differences) were as follows: 1.0, tadalafil 2.5 mg; 2.0, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVCV); 1.6, tadalafil 5 
mg (study LVFP); 2.3, tadalafil 10 mg. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  achieved  an  IIEF  EF  Domain  score  ≥26  was  higher  for  all  tadalafil 
groups compared with placebo: placebo 8.3% (study LCVC) and 14.1% (study LVFP), tadalafil 2.5mg 
37.8%, tadalafil 5mg 51.5% (study LCVC) and 42.4% (study LVFP), Tadalafil 10mg 50.5%.  
-  Patient  Sexual  Encounter  Profile  Diary:  SEP  Q3:  “Did  your  erection  last  long  enough  for  you  to 
have successful intercourse?” 
The  overall  percentages  of  successful  intercourse  attempts  were  higher  for  all  tadalafil  groups 
compared  with  placebo:  38.8%,  placebo  (study  LVCV);  33.5%,  placebo  (study  LVFP);  53.0%, 
tadalafil 2.5 mg;  68.6%, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVCV); 62.3%, tadalafil 5 mg (study LVFP); 78.5%, 
tadalafil 10 mg.  
- SEP Q4: “Were you satisfied with the hardness of your erection?”and SEP Q5: “Were you satisfied 
overall with this sexual experience?” 
The  percentage  of  ‘yes’  responses  to  SEP  Q4  and  SEP  Q5  at  baseline  was  generally  similar  among 
studies and treatment groups.  
For  SEP  Q4:  21.3%,  tadalafil  2.5  mg;  34.7%,  tadalafil  5  mg  (study  LVCV);  25.3%,  tadalafil  5  mg 
(study LVFP); 40.2%, tadalafil 10 mg. 
For  SEP  Q5:  20.8%,  tadalafil  2.5  mg;  35.7%,  tadalafil  5  mg  (study  LVCV);  24.1%,  tadalafil  5  mg 
(study LVFP); 41.7%, tadalafil 10 mg. 
Study LVFZ 
Recruitment / Numbers analysed 
The randomised study population included 298 subjects with an average age of 57 years. Most of these 
subjects (N=254, 85.2%) completed the placebo-controlled double-blind treatment period. 
Efficacy – Co-primary Endpoints 
Results of the co-primary endpoints are summarised in Table 6. 
12/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Tadalafil 2.5 mg and 5 mg once-a-day dosing significantly improved erectile function compared with 
placebo for each of the coprimary endpoints at 12 weeks.  
Open-Label Extension Periods (studies LVCV and LVFP) 
The  open-label  periods  of  Studies  LVCV  and  LVFP  enrolled  472  subjects  (N=234,  LVCV;  N=238, 
LVFP).  Most  subjects  continued  from  the  placebo-controlled  double-blind  treatment  periods.  Some 
subjects directly entered the extension period of Study LVCV (n=51). Most subjects (88.5%, LVCV; 
68.1%, LVFP) completed the extension periods. Discontinuation due to perceived lack of efficacy was 
lower for Study LVCV (3.4%) than for Study LVFP (14.7%). 
The mean IIEF EF Domain score was 13.7 at baseline and 23.3 at the end of the extension period for 
all subjects enrolled in the extension period of Study LVCV.  
In Study LVFP, the mean IIEF EF Domain score was 14.0 at baseline of the placebo-controlled period 
and 22.8 at endpoint of the extension period for all subjects enrolled in the extension period. 
In  Study  LVCV,  the  mean  IIEF  EF  Domain  score  decreased  markedly  from  24.1  at  the  end  of  the 
extension  period  to  16.0  after  the  4-week  treatment-free  follow-up  period.  This  assessment  included 
subjects  (n=206)  that  had  IIEF  EF  Domain  scores  for  both  endpoint  and  the  post-treatment-free 
follow-up period visits (see figure 1). 
13/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Dose selection 
The efficacy of tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing was greater than the efficacy achieved with 2.5 mg 
once-a-day dosing and demonstrated equivalent efficacy to that of tadalafil 10 mg as-needed dosing. 
Integrated efficacy data from the placebo-controlled studies in the general ED population showed that 
tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing results in higher IIEF EF Domain scores and higher proportions of 
‘yes’  responses  to  SEP  Q2  than  those  observed  for  tadalafil  10  mg  as-needed  dosing  with  some 
overlap in the 95% confidence intervals between the doses (see figure 2).  
14/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
The proportions of ‘yes’ responses to SEP Q3 were similar for tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing and 
tadalafil 10 mg as-needed dosing with substantial overlap in the 95% confidence intervals.  
Fewer  subjects  receiving  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  dosing  experienced  adverse  events  known  to  be 
associated  with  tadalafil  administration  compared  with  subjects  receiving  tadalafil  10  mg  as-needed 
dosing, and the incidence of adverse events was similar for both the tadalafil 5 mg and 2.5 mg doses. 
In  view  of  these  data,  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  dosing  was  selected  by  the  MAH  as  an  alternative 
regimen to tadalafil 10 mg as-needed dosing in the general ED population. Although lower efficacy 
has been observed for tadalafil 2.5 mg once-a-day dosing, the MAH proposed to use this dose for male 
patients who do not tolerate tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing. 
• 
Clinical study in special population 
In  study  LVFZ  conducted  in  the  diabetic  population,  tadalafil  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  once-a-day  dosing 
significantly improved erectile function compared with placebo for each of the coprimary endpoints at 
12 weeks.  
In the integrated analysis (including patients with diabetes mellitus from studies LVCV, and LVFP), 
response rates for SEP Q2 and SEP Q3 were 15.4-20.9% and 15-17.6%, respectively.  
• 
Other supportive data 
Vernet  et  al.  examined  PDE5  expression  and  cGMP  concentrations  during  14  days  of  continuous 
incubation  of  human  penile  corpora  cavernosal  smooth  muscle  cells  and  fibroblasts  of  the  tunica 
albuginea  with  tadalafil  at  concentrations  well  above  the  IC50  (concentration  of  tadalafil  inhibiting 
50% of PDE5 activity in vitro) and around the Cmax (mean peak plasma concentration in vivo).  
No up-regulation of PDE5 expression or decrease in cGMP concentrations was observed, suggesting 
that tachyphylaxis, particularly via transcriptional activation, is not likely to occur with clinical use. 
15/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Discussion on Pharmacokinetics and Clinical Efficacy 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  review  of    the  pharmacokinetics  of  tadalafil  at  doses  of  2.5mg  to  20mg  following  single  and 
multiple  doses  showed  that  the  average  Cmax  achieved  following  single  doses  of  tadalafil  10  and 
20mg  are  approximately  1.3-fold  and  2.6-fold,  respectively,  of  those  achieved  following  once-a-day 
administration of tadalafil 5 mg at steady-state.  
Similarly,  the  daily  systemic  exposure  (AUC-24h)  following  single  doses  of  tadalafil  10  and  20mg 
were  approximately  1.2-fold  and  2.4-fold,  respectively,  of  those  expected  at  steady-state  following 
once-a-day administration of tadalafil 5mg. Based on these data, repeated once-a-day administration of 
tadalafil 2-5 and 5mg did not result in higher Cmax and total systemic exposure than that following 
single administration of 10 or 20 mg tadalafil doses.  
Pharmacokinetic  sample  analysis  from  studies  LVFP  and  LVCE  showed  that  systemic  exposure  to 
tadalafil was comparable for the ‘once a day’ and ‘as needed’ dosing regimens. 
With respect to PK/PD interactions, the MAH referred to the previously submitted studies supportive 
of the initial MA for 10mg and 20mg tadalafil as-needed dosing. These studies demonstrated the lack 
of  clinically  relevant  PK  interactions.  However,  the  CHMP  considered  that  direct  extrapolation  of 
these  results,  could  be  questionable  since  most  of  the  studies  were  performed  following  the  current 
clinical  practice  use  i.e  patients  on  a  stable  regimen  with  any  concomitant  therapy  (monotherapy) 
received a single dose of tadalafil. 
In view of the above CHMP’s concern, the MAH provided a detailed analysis of the available PK/PD 
data which were in overall reassuring. As requested by regulatory authorities, Two interaction studies 
with  alpha-blockers  (tamsulosin  and  doxazosin)  following  once-a-day  doses  of  tadalafil  5  mg  are 
ongoing at the time of the present application. Preliminary data showed relevant PD interaction with 
doxazosin. This concern has been addressed in the Product Information.  
Clinical Efficacy 
The design of the three phase III studies was similar to that of the pivotal studies performed to support 
the MAA of tadalafil as-needed dosing.  
Results from studies LVCV and LVFP showed a statistically significant improvement for each of the 
co-primary endpoints in patients treated with all doses of tadalafil (2.5mg, 5mg, 10mg) compared to 
placebo.  
No differences between tadalafil 5mg and 10mg once-a-day dosing were observed, while differences 
between 2.5mg and 5mg were numerical.  
Differences  in  the  magnitude  of  the  response  across  the  studies  were  observed.  In  study  LVFP, 
tadalafil  5mg  once-a-day  showed  similar  results  to  tadalafil  10  mg  as-needed  dosing,  which  was 
expected  since  similar  drug  exposure  was  observed  between  the  2  dosages.  In  study  LVCV,  the 
efficacy  of  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  in  Study  LVCV  was,  unexpectedly,  similar  to  that  of  tadalafil 
20 mg as-needed dosing. 
Results from study LVFZ showed statistically significant differences for each of the primary endpoints 
between tadalafil and placebo groups, thus confirming a marginal benefit of tadalafil chronically used 
in patients with diabetes mellitus. In this special population, the magnitude of change for each of the 
co-primary endpoints was lower as compared to the ‘as-needed’ regimen. Furthermore, analyses of the 
proportion of successful intercourses (SEP question 3) showed that less than half of the attempts were 
successful (i.e. 41-46%).  
16/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP was also concerned about the lack of a direct comparison of the efficacy profile between 
both regimens ie. once-a-day versus as-needed administrations.  
The MAH estimated the relative efficacy of tadalafil once a day dosing versus the currently authorised 
dosing regimen by comparing efficacy results across different studies, although the limitations of such 
analysis were known. 
In view of the above CHMP’s concerns, an efficacy analysis by means of the proportion of successful 
intercourses across treatment groups was performed to allow an objective assessment of the magnitude 
of  the  clinical  benefit.  The  proportion  of  responders  i.e,  patients  who  achieved  normal  ED  with 
treatment (score ≥ 26) to previous treatment of other PDE5 inhibitors across studies LVCV and LVFP 
was also analysed. 
Results showed that the clinical benefit of tadalafil as ‘once a day’ dosing was less than double of the 
placebo, which could be considered the minimum acceptable effect to support the chronic use. 
Minor differences in the proportion of responders to previous treatment among tadalafil 5mg treatment 
groups  in  studies  LVCV  and  LVFP  were  observed.  Although  efficacy  results  appeared  similar 
between  both  populations  (naive  and  responders  to  PDE5  inhibitors  treatment),  a  vast  majority  of 
patients included in these studies were responders to previous PDE5 inhibitors. 
Analysis of responders was also considered by CHMP to address the issue on the clinical relevance of 
the  effect  of  tadalafil  once  a  day  dosing.  Across  all  studies  and  severities,  42-52%  of  patients  who 
received 5mg of tadalafil once a day improved to the no-ED category at endpoint, compared with 28% 
for the 2.5mg tadalafil patient group and 8-14% for the placebo patient group. Similar response rates 
were observed as compared to‘as needed’ dosing. 
Overall, the CHMP was of the opinion that the clinical data supported some evidence that the once-a-
day  regimen  might  be  a  suitable  alternative  for  the  subset  of  patients  with  ED  with  frequent  sexual 
intercourse  attempts  (e.g.  at  least  twice  weekly)  for  a  limited  period  and  according  to  the  treating 
physician judgement and patient convenience. 
Nevertheless, the CHMP considered that the new proposed dosage regimen would only apply to this 
restricted population, as the once-a-day treatment could represent excessive dosing for men with ED 
and who have infrequent need for medication to facilitate sexual activity. 
With respect to the dose selection, the use of tadalafil 5 mg for the recommended once-a-day dosing in 
the  general  ED  population,  was  considered  acceptable  by  CHMP.  The  dose  may  be  decreased  to 
2.5 mg once a day based on individual tolerability.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
The 3 placebo-controlled once-a-day dosing studies included a total of 853 subjects (N=268, LVCV; 
N=287, LVFP; N=298, LVFZ). A total of 472 subjects (N=234, LVCV; N=238, LVFP) enrolled in the 
extension periods. Most subjects (85.1%) completed the double-blind treatment period. Most subjects 
(78.2%) completed the 1-year open-label extension periods (88.5%, LVCV; 68.1%, LVFP first year).  
A  total  of  617  subjects  have  had  at  least  6  months  of  exposure  to  tadalafil  5  mg,  10  mg,  or  20  mg 
once-a-day dosing and 388 subjects have had at least 1 year of exposure to tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day 
dosing.  
• 
Adverse events  
The  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  the  12-week,  placebo-controlled  once-a-day 
integrated data was generally higher for tadalafil-treated subjects compared with placebo. The highest 
incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events was observed in the tadalafil 10 mg once-a-day dosing 
group (57.1%). The incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events was similar between the tadalafil 
17/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 mg and 2.5 mg once-a-day dosing groups (5 mg, 47.4%; 2.5 mg, 50.0%), and lower for the placebo 
group (36.3%). The incidence of serious adverse events, however, was similar between tadalafil- and 
placebo-treated subjects.  
The incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events  in the 19-study integrated database for tadalafil 
as-needed dosing (10 mg, 46.2%; 20 mg, 47.5%) was similar to the incidence of treatment-emergent 
adverse events observed for tadalafil 5 mg and 2.5 mg once-a-day dosing.  
In the 1-year, long-term, open-label extension periods, when all subjects received tadalafil 5 mg once-
a-day dosing, the overall incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events was 57.2%. This incidence 
was lower than the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events during the first year of the open-
label, tadalafil as-needed comparator study (65.3%).  
In the 12-week, placebo-controlled integrated data, common treatment-emergent adverse events in the 
tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  dosing  group  were  headache  (5.6%),  dyspepsia  (4.6%),  nasopharyngitis 
(3.3%), back pain (3.0%), upper respiratory tract infection (2.6%), flushing (2.6%), influenza (2.3%), 
and myalgia (2.3%). The summary of the treatment emergent adverse events is shown in Table 7. 
Table 7 
Generally,  lower  incidences  of  common  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  the  tadalafil  10  mg 
group  were  observed  as  compared  to  the  ‘as-needed’  dosing  placebo-controlled  studies  (headache, 
10.2%;  dyspepsia,  5.5%;  nasopharyngitis,  5.2%;  back  pain,  3.8%;  upper  respiratory  tract  infection 
[0.5%;exception,  lower  than  tadalafil  5 mg  once-a-day  dosing]  flushing,  2.7%; influenza,  2.8%;  and 
myalgia, 3.0%).  
In  the  tadalafil  2.5  mg  once-a-day  dosing  group,  incidences  of  common  treatment-emergent  adverse 
events    were  similar  or  higher  to  those  observed  in  the  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  group,  except  for 
headache (2.6%), dyspepsia (3.1%), and flushing (1.0%).  
In  the  1-year,  open-label  extension  periods,  common  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  were 
dyspepsia,  6.4%;  headache,  5.5%;  back  pain,  5.5%;  hypertension,  3.6%;  influenza,  3.4%; 
nasopharyngitis,  3.0%;  bronchitis,  2.1%;  and  sinusitis,  2.1%  ,  with  headache,  dyspepsia,  back  pain, 
influenza and nasopharyngitis. 
18/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sinusitis was the only common treatment-emergent adverse event that occurred in once-a-day dosing 
at an incidence ≥1% higher than the incidence at which it occurred in the as-needed comparator study. 
The incidence of adverse events considered possibly related to study medication by the investigator in 
the  12-week,  placebo-controlled  once-a-day  integrated  data  generally  increased  with  increasing 
tadalafil dose (2.5 mg, 10.7%; 5 mg, 19.7%; 10 mg, 35.2%; placebo, 5.6%).  
The most common possibly related adverse events in the integrated tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing 
group,  by  preferred  term,  were  headache  (5.6%),  dyspepsia  (3.0%),  flushing  (2.6%),  and  back  pain 
(2.0%).  
In the tadalafil 2.5 mg once-a-day dosing group, incidences of possibly related adverse events for the 
same preferred terms were lower than tadalafil 5 mg once-a-day dosing and tadalafil 10 mg as-needed 
dosing (headache, 2.0%; dyspepsia, 2.6%; flushing, 0.5%; back pain, 1.5%).  
• 
Deaths and other serious adverse events 
There were 3 reports of death in patients who received 5 mg tadalafil once-a day dosing: one in the  
placebo-controlled period of study LVCV, 2 in the long-term extension period of Study LVFP. These 
were not considered related to study treatment. 
Overall, the proportion of patients experiencing SAEs in the 12-week placebo-controlled once-a-day 
studies was 2.0 % in placebo, 1.5% in tadalafil 2.5mg, and 1.6% in tadalafil 5mg groups as compared 
to 1%, 0.7% and 1.2% in placebo, tadalafil 10mg and tadalafil 20mg ‘as-needed’ dosing.  
In  the  1-year,  open-label  extension  periods,  when  all  subjects  received  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day 
dosing, 13 subjects in LVCV (9 tadalafil and 4 placebo) and 18 subjects in LVFP (12 tadalafil and 6 
placebo) experienced a SAE. ‘Fall’ occurred in more than 1 subject as a SAE  i.e 2 tadalafil and two 
placebo  subjects.  None  of  the  reported  ‘falls’  were  considered  related  to  study  medication  by  the 
investigator.  
• 
Other safety findings 
The  numbers  of  subjects  who  experienced  decreases  in  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP)  of  at  least  20 
mm Hg ranged from 16.7% to 22%, with no differences among treatment groups. Only 2 cases were 
related to hypotensive events. 
In placebo-controlled studies LVFP and LVCV, higher incidence of  ‘abnormal rhythms’ in tadalafil 
2.5 mg (20.6%) and 5 mg (23.1%) once-a-day dosing groups than in placebo (10.9%) was observed.  
In subjects receiving tadalafil 2.5 mg and 5 mg once-a-day dosing, a higher incidence of dizziness was 
observed in subjects older than 65 years of age compared with younger subjects (> 65 years, 2.3%; ≤ 
65 years, 0.5%). 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
During  the  placebo-controlled  treatment  periods,  few  subjects  (n=32,  3.8%)  discontinued  study 
participation early due to an adverse event (2.8% in placebo vs 3-5.7% in tadalafil groups). Similarly, 
during the extension periods, few subjects (n=18, 3.8%) discontinued study participation early due to 
an adverse event.  
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The reported exposure to tadalafil at a once-a-day dosing regimen was in accordance with the ICH E1 
guideline  on    ‘the  Extent  of  Population  Exposure  to  Assess  Clinical  Safety  for  Drugs  Intended  for 
Long-Term Treatment of Non-Life-Threatening Conditions’  (CPMP/ICH/375/95). 
19/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  proportion  of  patients  that  completed  the  12-weeks  double  blind  period  was  similar  across 
treatment groups and studies (ranging from 84% to 87%). Of these, 2.8% of patients discontinued due 
to  AEs  in  placebo  as  compared  to  3.0-5.7%  in  tadalafil  treatment  groups.  Lack  of  efficacy  was  the 
reason  for  discontinuation  in  8.9%  of  patients  in  placebo  vs  1.5-3.0%  in  tadalafil  groups  during  the 
double blind 12-week treatment period.  
Of the 472 patients enrolled in the extension studies, 88.5% completed the 1-year open-label extension 
period in Study LVCV while up to 32% of patients in Study LVFP discontinued.  During the first year, 
One third of patients discontinued therapy. Of these, up to 15% of patients perceived lack of efficacy 
as the reason for discontinuation. 
The overall incidence of treatment emergent AEs in the double-blind once a-day studies was 47.4%, 
50%  and  57.1%  in  tadalafil  2.5mg,  5mg  and  10mg  treatment  groups,  respectively,  as  compared  to 
36.3% in placebo groups. Similar incidences were observed in the as-needed dosing studies.  
The  most  common  reported  AEs  were  headache,  dyspesia,  back  pain,  flushing,  myalgia,  nasal 
congestion and pain in extremity. Incidence of these common AEs was lower than the one observed in 
the as-needed dosing studies. 
Nevertheless,  the  proportion  of  serious  AEs  was  slightly  higher  in  the  once-a-day  dosing  studies 
(SAE: 1.5-1.6% in tadalafil 2.5 and 5mg once-a-day versus 0.7% in tadalafil 10 mg as-needed dosing) 
as well as the rate of discontinuation due to AEs (2.6-4.1% in tadalafil 5mg and 2.5mg versus 1.3% in 
tadalafil 10mg as-needed dosing). 
By  contrast,  in  the  open-label  extension  periods,  a  lower  incidence  of  treatment  emergent  AEs, 
treatment  related  AEs,  and  rate  of  discontinuation  in  the  tadalafil  5mg  once-a-day  treatment  was 
observed  as  compared  to  the  pooled  tadalafil  5/10/20mg  as-needed  regimen.  The  CHMP  however 
noted  that  the  inclusion  of  high  proportion  of  responders  to  tadalafil/PDE5  inhibitors  in  the  ‘once-a 
day’  studies  as  well  as  the  higher  dose  of  20  mg  available  for  the  ‘as  needed’  regimen  may  have 
contributed to such lower incidences of AEs. 
Although the comparison of the safety profile across different studies may have several limitations, the 
CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  safety  profile  of  both  dosing  regimens  seemed  in  overall  to  be 
comparable.  
A slightly higher incidence of ECG abnormalities such as supraventricular rhythm disorders, ST and T 
wave  abnormalities  and  other  rhythm  disorders,  mainly  sinus  bradycardia,  were  reported  in  patients 
treated with tadalafil as compared to placebo. However, a clear dose-response relationship could not 
be established.   
Analysis  of  the  reported  cases  of  dizziness  in  subjects  older  than  65  years  of  age  did  not  reveal 
evidence of hypotensive events. 
There were no clinically meaningful differences in the adverse event profile between subjects with or 
without  diabetes,  subjects  with  or  without  hypertension,  or  subjects  with  or  without  cardiovascular 
disease in the ‘once-a-day’ dosing studies. 
5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
20/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product: The MAH has committed to update the RMP to include the need to focus on the safety profile 
in elderly patients on a daily dose treatment. 
6 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Cialis  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  prepared  by  standard  manufacturing  methods.  
The  development,  manufacture  and  quality  control  of  the  finished  product  is  well  defined  and 
controlled. The quality of the excipients and of the primary packaging remains unchanged compared 
to the already authorised finished products. All relevant quality characteristics of the finished product 
(release and shelf-life) are specified. The proposed limits are sufficient. The analytical methods used 
are described and validated adequately.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Previously submitted non clinical data for the current approved formulations were considered relevant 
to  tadalafil  2.5  mg  and  5  mg  film-coated  tablets  to  characterise  the  pharmacological  properties  and 
toxicological profile of these new strengths. 
Based  on  the  submitted  non  clinical  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  toxicological  profile  of 
tadalafil 2.5 mg and 5 mg film coated tablets has been adequately addressed. Nevertheless, a concern 
was  raised  related  to  the  lack  of  long-term  toxicity  data  in  fish.  To  address  this  issue,  the  MAH 
committed to conduct a standard early life stage study in fathed minnows (OECD Guideline 210) as a 
follow up measure, the study being initiated around Q3/2007. 
Efficacy 
The  clinical  data  provided  by  the  applicant  are  considered  sufficient  to  support  the  extension 
application for the 2 new doses of 2.5 and 5 mg, in responder patients who anticipate a frequent use of 
Cialis (i.e. at least twice weekly). Detailed information has been reflected in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Safety 
The safety profile of the 2 new doses (2.5 and 5 mg) for Cialis to be used as ‘once a day’ regimen was 
similar to that of the current approved doses 10 and 20 mg to used as ‘on demand’ regimen. Based on 
data collected to date, the safety profile appeared favourable. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Risk-benefit assessment and recommendation 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that:  the  following  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required:  The  MAH  has 
committed to update the RMP to include the need to focus on the safety profile in elderly patients on a 
daily dose treatment. 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
risk-benefit  balance  of  Cialis  in  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the extension of the marketing authorisation. 
21/21 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
