18 October 2012 
EMA/647346/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Cialis 
tadalafil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000436/II/0060 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Tadalafil  is  a  selective,  reversible  inhibitor  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)  -  specific 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). The PDE5 isoenzyme has been identified in the smooth muscle cells 
of  corpus  cavernosum,  vascular  and  visceral  smooth  muscle,  skeletal  muscle,  platelets,  kidney,  lung, 
and cerebellum, as well as in the prostate, urethra, and bladder.  
Some of the available scientific data suggest that inhibition of PDE5 may improve signs and symptoms 
of  BPH  (including  LUTS)  through  relaxation  of  smooth  muscle  in  the  prostate,  bladder,  and  pelvic 
vasculature  leading  to  increased  perfusion  of  the  lower  urinary  tract.  Inhibition  of  PDE5  may  also 
improve signs and symptoms of BPH through reduced smooth-muscle and endothelial-cell proliferation 
in the prostate and bladder, as well as modulation of afferent neural signalling from the lower urinary 
tract.  
Tadalafil  under  the  trade  name  of  Cialis  was  approved  12  November  2002  in  the  European  Union  for 
on-demand dosing (10 and 20 mg ) in the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) in adult men and was 
approved 20 June 2007 for once-a-day dosing (5 and 2.5 mg) in the treatment of ED in adult men.  
It  is  also  approved  in  once-a-day  (40  mg)  treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  under 
the trade name of Adcirca in EU. Furthermore, outside the EU the following indications were approved: 
once-a-day treatment of signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) (US approval 06 
October  2011),  and  once-a-day  treatment  of  ED  and  signs  and  symptoms  of  BPH  (US  approval  06 
October 2011).  
In  September  2011,  a  new  indication  application  was  submitted  for  Cialis  for  the  “treatment  of  the 
signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in adult males including those with erectile 
dysfunction” (EMEA/H/C/436/II/060). 
1.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
To  support  the  use  of  Tadalafil  on  the  treatment  of  low  urinary  tract  symptoms  of  benign  prostate 
hyperplasia,  experimental  work  was  conducted  in  rat  model  of  genitourinary  tract  hypoxia,  and  in 
deferential arteries (animal and human). The safety pharmacology and the full toxicological evaluation 
performed  to  support  the  current  indication  at  the  dose  of  5mg  is  fully  supported  by  the  studies 
previously  conducted  to  support  the  use  of  Tadalafil  for  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction.  Since 
such  studies  were  assessed  already,  the  conclusions  are  considered  valid  and  appropriate  to  support 
the current variation and no further studies or discussion is considered needed.  
1.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Effect of PDE5 Inhibition with Tadalafil on Prostate Gland Oxygenation 
The spontaneous hypertensive rat (SHR) is a species with an excessive neuroendocrine activity and is 
a  rat  strain  commonly  used  as  a  model  to  study  both  lower  urinary  tract  disease  (such  as  BPH)  and 
erectile  dysfunction.  The  animal  model  is  characterized  by  reduced  pelvic  blood  flow  to  the 
genitourinary tract, ischemia/hypoxia leading to morphological/structural alterations, such as prostate 
and  bladder  fibrosis,  increased  prostate  and  bladder  contractions,  and  an  increase  in  urethral 
resistance  (Tarcan  et  al.  1998;  McVary  et  al.  2005;  Yono  et  al.  2007).  Fourteen-week-old  SHR  were 
treated with 2 mg/kg/daily tadalafil for 1 day, 7  days, and 4 weeks. Given the PK  profile of tadalafil, 
Page 2/56 
 
oral administration at 2 mg/kg/day would provide adequate exposure and coverage to explore the on 
target effects of inhibiting the PDE5A enzyme. These groups of treated SHR were compared with both 
untreated  SHR  and  the  normotensive  counterpart  Wistar  Kyoto  rats  (WKY),  used  as  reference  for 
normal prostate oxygenation. Hypoxyprobe™ staining was used to study prostate oxygenation.  
PDE5-Isoenzyme Expression in Human Lower Urinary Tract Tissues 
In order to investigate the role of PDE5 inhibition in the vasculature supporting bladder and prostate, 
experiments were performed in tissue preparations of human vesicular-deferential artery, a branch of 
the  main  arterial  supply  to  the  seminal  vesicles,  vas  deferens,  bladder  base,  lower  portion  of  ureter, 
and  prostate  gland.  Samples  of  the  vesicular-deferential  artery,  along  with  other  LUT  tissue,  was 
collected during radical prostatectomy to assess the presence and activity of PDE5-isoenzymes and the 
impact of tadalafil in an in-vitro model (Report AMS42). 
Vasorelaxant Effect of Tadalafil on Human Vesico-Deferential Artery 
The ability of tadalafil to impact PDE5 activity was further confirmed in isolated rings of human vesico-
deferential artery. 
1.2.2.  Results 
Effect of PDE5 Inhibition with Tadalafil on Prostate Gland Oxygenation 
Prostate sections from untreated SHR showed an intense immunopositivity for hypoxyprobe staining in 
the epithelial layers of prostatic ducts when compared with prostate sections from WKY rats, where the 
staining  was  almost  undetectable.  Quantitative  statistical  analysis  of  hypoxic  areas  was  performed  in 
prostate  sections  from  3  animals  for  each  group  and  confirmed  that  SHR  prostate  is  hypoxic  in  the 
epithelial compartment and that tadalafil treatment is able to restore hypoxiprobe immunopositivity to 
the  level  observed  in  WKY  rats.  Accordingly,  the  hypoxia-inducible  factor  1  (HIF-1α)  protein 
immunopositivity was significantly increased in SHR prostate sections when compared to WKY rats, and 
reduced by tadalafil treatment after 1 day, 7 days, and 4 weeks. Oxygenation was partially normalized 
after  1  day  and  completely  restored  to  that  of  WKY  after  7  days  and  4  weeks.  Similar  results  were 
obtained when rat prostate sections were analyzed for the immunopositivity of the endothelin-1 type B 
receptor  (ETB),  a  protein  known  to  be  upregulated  under  hypoxic  conditions  (Davenport  2002). 
Moreover,  by  real  time  RT-PCR,  it  was  determined  that  mRNA  expression  of  BCL2/adenovirus  E1B 
19kDa interacting protein 3 (BNIP3), a HIF-1α target gene, was significantly increased in SHR prostate 
when  compared  to  WKY  rats.  BNIP3  did  not  change  after  1  day,  while  it  was  reduced  and  not 
significantly different than WKY after 7 days and 4 weeks of treatment with tadalafil. 
Fig  below:  Tadalafil  2mg/Kg/day  reduced  the  prostate  levels  of  hypoxyprobe  staining  (measured  by 
computer  assisted  densitometry)  in  spontaneously  hypertensive  rats  (SHR)  treated  for  1  day  (upper 
graph) and 7 days (lower graph). Levels approached those in WKY (normotensive rats) 
Page 3/56 
 
 
 
In summary, tadalafil treatment improves prostate gland oxygenation and markers of hypoxia after 1 
day, 7 days, and 4 weeks in the SHR animal model, which is characterized by ischemia/hypoxia of the 
genitourinary  tract.  These  results  support  the  hypothesis  that  stimulation  of  NO/cGMP-mediated 
relaxation  in  prostate  vascular  smooth  muscle,  increased  blood  perfusion  and  oxygenation  of  the 
prostatic tissue, and consequent restoration of tissue structure may be involved in the mechanism by 
which tadalafil treatment reduces LUTS in men with BPH. 
PDE5-Isoenzyme Expression in Human Lower Urinary Tract Tissues 
The vesicular-deferential artery was shown to express high levels of PDE5, similar to that observed in 
corpora  cavernosa,  and  immunolocalized  in  the  endothelial  cells  and  smooth  muscle  layer.  PDE5 
immunopositivity  also  was  confirmed  in  human  corpora  cavernosa  and  prostate  sections,  expressed 
mainly  in  endothelial  and  smooth  muscle  cells  of  blood  vessels,  with  little  positivity  in  the  stromal 
component  of  the  prostate.  Human  vesicular-deferential  artery homogenate  was  shown  to  catabolyze 
cGMP,  and  tadalafil  inhibited  cGMP  breakdown  in  these  homogenates  with  an  IC50  in  the  low 
nanomolar range. These results indicate that human vesiculo-deferential arteries and prostate vascular 
bed expresses the pharmacological target of tadalafil, and has the ability to respond to PDE5 inhibitors. 
Page 4/56 
 
 
Vasorelaxant Effect of Tadalafil on Human Vesico-Deferential Artery 
Human  artery  rings,  precontracted  with  noradrenaline,  were  relaxed  in  a  concentration-dependent 
manner by the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Preincubation with tadalafil (100 nM) enhanced 
this  SNP-induced  relaxant  effect,  increasing  both  the  potency  and  maximal  relaxant  effect  of  SNP. 
These results confirm that human vasculature supporting bladder and prostate perfusion is responsive 
to PDE5 inhibition with tadalafil. 
1.2.3.  Discussion 
The  use  of  tadalafil  on  the  treatment  of  (Low  urinary  tract)  symptoms  associated  to  Benign  Prostate 
Hyperplasia is proposed in the current variation. The basis for the proposal is the concept that  
i)  the  urinary  tract  symptoms  associated  to  BPH  are  related  to  the  hypoxia  and  hypoxia-induced 
structural/morphological  organ  changes  which  promote  increased  contraction  of  eg  the  bladder, 
urethra and prostate,  
ii) the Nitric Oxide Synthase / cGMP system are present in the tissues of the lower genitourinary tract 
as well as in the arteries responsible for the blood supply of bladder and prostate, and  
iii)  and  the  increased  blood  supply  promoted  by  the  increased  levels  of  cGMP  obtained  by  PDE5 
inhibition  in  the  concerned  tissues  (incuding  vessels)  will  ameliorate  tissues  oxygenation  and  reverse 
the structural/morphological changes involved in the increased contaction of prostate/bladder/uretra.  
The  presence  of  PDE5  in  the  arteries  which  irrigate  the  lower  genito-urinary  tract  tissues  has  been 
shown, in human and rodent tissues using rodent model of low urinary tract hypoxia.  
The  reduction  of  hypoxia  by  Tadalafil  in  the  prostate  of  the  animal  model  has  also  been  shown,  (the 
effects observed in vivo were dependent of the treatment duration when 1day-2weeks treatment were 
administered)  as  well  as  its  ability  to  reduce  the  cGM  break-down  in  animal  and  human  arteries  in 
vitro.  Also,  in  human  deferential  artery,  the  potentiation  by  Tadalafil  of  the  Nitroprussiate-induced 
vaso-relaxation has been shown.  
Therefore,  in  qualitative  terms,  the  Pharmacodynamic  studies  do  support  the  concept  behind  the 
proposed indication in this variation.  
1.3.  Clinical Pharmacology aspects  
To  support  this  application  for  BPH  indication  and  since  the  PK  of  tadalafil  in  healthy  volunteers  and 
other  patient  populations  is  well  studied  and  established  from  both  the  original  and  the  once  daily 
applications, the MAH presented only one study comparing the PK of an elderly population (most likely 
to suffer from this disease condition) and a younger population (LVHN). A Phase 2 Study LVIA has also 
been conducted in Japanese men with BPH. This study is considered as supportive, and only relevant 
results from it will be presented. 
1.3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
  Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics of Tadalafil Administered Once Daily in Young and elderly 
BPH Subjects (LVHN). 
A multicentre, parallel-group, open-label study was conducted to assess the single- and multiple-dose 
PK and cardiovascular dynamics of tadalafil in a more elderly population than the one included in the 
Page 5/56 
 
 
previous  clinical  pharmacology  or  ED  studies.  This  study  included  12  elderly  (70  to  76  years  of  age) 
and  12  young  (48  to  59  years  of  age)  subjects  with  lower  urinary  tract  symptoms  secondary  to  BPH 
and 3 younger subjects (45 to 60 years of age) with mild renal impairment, but without BPH. These 3 
subjects were included to determine whether any age-related Pharmacokinetic (PK) differences might 
be attributable to altered renal function rather than age alone, but the primary analyses are based on 
PK and hemodynamic data from the BPH subjects only. Subjects received tadalafil 20 mg once daily for 
10 consecutive days.  
  Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Tadalafil Administered Once Daily for 12 Weeks in 
Japanese Men with Signs and Symptoms of BPH (LVIA). 
A  Phase  2,  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-design  study  was 
conducted  to  evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  steady-state  PK  of  tadalafil  2.5  (n=141)  and  5  mg 
(n=134) once daily in Japanese male subjects with BPH and ≥45 years of age.  
1.3.2.  Results 
  Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics of Tadalafil Administered Once Daily in Young and elderly 
BPH Subjects (LVHN). 
Mean  tadalafil  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  reduced  by  approximately  13%  following  single-  and 
multiple-dose  administration  of  tadalafil  20  mg  in  elderly  BPH  subjects  compared  to  young  BPH 
subjects, but these differences were not statistically significant. 
Elderly  subjects  appeared  to  have  higher  levels  of tadalafil’s  major  metabolite  (total  methylcatechol,) 
AUC  and  Cmax  after  a  single  20-mg  dose  of  tadalafil,  when  compared  to  the  younger  subjects.  No 
significant differences were observed following 10 days of once daily dosing as the confidence intervals 
for the AUC and Cmax comparisons on Day 10 included 1. Across dosing days, tmax for both tadalafil 
and total methylcatechol were similar in elderly and young BPH subjects.  
The haemodynamic profile was comparable for elderly and young subjects with BPH. There appeared to 
be  a  larger  decrease  in  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  (BP)  from  baseline  (Day  1,  pre-dose)  in 
supine and standing for elderly subjects compared to young subjects with BPH, over the first 4h post-
dose  on  Days  1  and  10.  This  finding  was  attributed  to  a  higher  baseline  BP  (Day  1,  pre-dose)  in  the 
elderly  subjects  and  probable  impaired  baroreceptor  function  in  this  age  group.  None  of  the  elderly 
subjects experienced adverse events (AE) associated with orthostatic changes in BP, whereas 2 young 
subjects experienced orthostatic hypotension. 
Page 6/56 
 
 
 
Overall,  tadalafil  was  tolerated  when  administered  as  single  and  multiple  20-mg  daily  doses  for  10 
days  to  elderly  and  young  subjects  with  BPH,  with  no  difference  in  the  overall  tolerability  profile 
between age groups. 
To  compare  the  PK  of  tadalafil  in  healthy  subjects  and  subjects  with  BPH,  a  historic  comparison  has 
been  provided  by  the  MAH  between  results  from  study  LVHN  and  from  study  LVDK,  study  done  in 
healthy subjects which was submitted in the original on-demand ED submission. Both studies dosed 20 
mg once a day for 10 days. From a demographic point of view, study LVHN included a younger and an 
older  subjects,  whereas  study  LVDK  included  only  young  subjects.  As  might  be  expected,  the  mean 
weight of subjects in study LVHN was greater by <20% than that in healthy subjects; the magnitude of 
this  difference  was  not  deemed  to  unduly  influence  the  comparison  and  interpretation  of  the  results. 
The  tadalafil  plasma  concentration  time  profiles  during  20  mg  once-daily  doses  of  tadalafil  were 
comparable between healthy subjects and subjects with BPH on Day 1 and Day 10. 
When results were stratified by age, no clinically relevant differences in tadalafil exposure were found, 
irrespective of age. 
Tadalafil  exposures  in  subjects  with  BPH  (Study  LVHN)  are  comparable  to  those  in  healthy  subjects 
(study LVDK). Overall, these results are consistent with expectations that the pathophysiology of BPH, 
like ED, does not alter the pharmacokinetics of tadalafil. 
  Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Tadalafil Administered Once Daily for 12 Weeks in 
Japanese Men with Signs and Symptoms of BPH (LVIA). 
Overall,  mean  tadalafil  concentrations  were  similar  across  visits  within  the  specified  time  intervals. 
Exposures  in  Japanese  subjects  in  this  study  were  significantly  higher  than  exposures  in  historical 
studies in non-Japanese subjects. This is inconsistent with all other comparisons of Japanese and non-
Japanese  subjects  within  and  between  studies,  which  have  consistently  indicated  comparable 
exposures between these groups.  
1.3.3.  Discussion 
For  the  previous  submission  for  the  ED  and  PAH  indications,  over  60  clinical  pharmacology  studies 
were  conducted.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  tadalafil  at  doses  of  2.5mg  to  20mg  following  single  and 
multiple doses were characterised in the studies presented in these previous submissions. A summary 
of the studies and topics relevant to the present submission has been provided by the MAH. The MAH 
Page 7/56 
 
 
 
 
argues  that  the  clinical  pharmacology  package  supporting  these  previous  submissions  for  tadalafil    is 
the same needed to support the current application to register tadalafil 5 mg for once-daily use for the 
treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). This is agreed upon.  
In  addition  to  the  previously  mentioned  data,  the  MAH  has  presented  a  new  clinical  pharmacology 
study  in  subjects  with  BPH  and  additional  supportive  PK  data  from  a  Phase  2  study  conducted  in 
Japanese men with BPH.  
Tadalafil  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  reduced  by  approximately  13%  following  single-  and  multiple-
dose  administration  of  tadalafil  20  mg  in  elderly  subjects  compared  to  young  BPH  subjects.  A  higher 
exposure  to  tadalafil’s  major  metabolite  (total  methylcatechol)  was  observed  in  elderly  subjects.  The 
data  submitted  shows  a  larger  decrease  in  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  (BP)  from  baseline 
(Day 1, pre-dose) in supine and standing for these  elderly subjects compared to young subjects with 
BPH, over the first 4h post-dose. 
The MAH was asked to clarify this issue. The MAH attributed these features to a higher baseline blood 
pressure  and  probable  impaired  baroreceptors  in  these  subjects  (≥65  years  old).  When  changes  in 
blood pressure recorded in the pivotal clinical trials (12 weeks) as well as on the open label extension 
(52 week) were reviewed these findings were not replicated.  
The  MAH  claims  that  the  mechanism  of  action  resides  in  the  inhibition  of  PDE5,  which  is  thought  to 
improve signs and symptoms of BPH through reduced smooth-muscle and endothelial-cell proliferation 
in the prostate and bladder, as well as modulation of afferent neural signalling from the lower urinary 
tract.  The  resulting  vascular  relaxation  may  increase  blood  perfusion,  thus  reducing  BPH  symptoms. 
The MAH has pointed out that with the evidence available, there are no indications that increased blood 
perfusion caused by PDE5 inhibitors could affect the prostate size and lead to worsening of the disease 
itself.  Although  no  ultrasound  examination  of  the  prostates  are  available  from  patients  treated  with 
tadalafil  the indirect  signs  (IPSS,  PVR,  Qmax  and  PSA  levels)  of  patients  that  participated  in  the BHP 
pivotal studies do not suggest further concerns related to a potential enlargement of the prostate size.  
1.4.  Clinical Efficacy aspects  
Page 8/56 
 
 
Dose response studies 
The  dose-response  effect  of  tadalafil  on  total  IPSS  and  BII  was  evaluated  in  2  studies:  Study  LVHG 
where 4 doses ranging from 2.5 to 20 mg were examined in patients with BPHLUTS and in Study LVHR 
where the doses of 2.5 and 5 mg were examined in patients with BPH-LUTS and comorbid ED.  
Study  LVHG  was  a  pivotal  Phase  2b/3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  design, 
dose-finding  study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy,  dose  response,  and  safety  of  tadalafil  2.5,  5,  10,  and  20 
mg once a day for 12 weeks versus placebo in men with BPH-LUTS. 
Inclusion  criteria  included  subjects  who:  were  ≥45  years  old;  had  BPH-LUTS  (as  diagnosed  by  a 
qualified physician) for >6 months at screening; had total IPSS ≥13 at the start of the placebo lead-in 
period;  had  a  peak  urinary  flow  rate  (Qmax)  ≥4  and  ≤15  mL/sec  at  the  start  of  the  placebo  lead-in 
period. 
Exclusion criteria excluded subjects who: had a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value 10 ng/mL (men 
with a PSA of 4 to 10 ng/mL were required to have a prostate  biopsy negative for malignancy within 
the preceding 12 months); had clinical evidence of a urinary tract infection/inflammation at screening; 
had a postvoid residual (PVR) volume ≥300 mL at screening; had clinical evidence of prostate cancer; 
received finasteride or dutasteride treatment within 3 and 12 months, respectively, before the start of 
the  placebo  lead-in  period;  had  evidence  of  New  York  Heart  Association  (NYHA)  ≥Class  III 
cardiovascular  disease  (NYHA  1994)  within  6  months  of  screening;  had  a  history  of  significant  renal 
insufficiency,  defined  as  renal  dialysis  or  having  an  estimated  creatinine  clearance  <50  mL/min  at 
screening as calculated by the Cockcroft- Gault formula. 
After screening, subjects taking any prohibited BPH, overactive bladder, or ED treatment entered a 4-
week wash-out period, followed by a 4-week single-blind, once-a-day placebo lead-in period to assess 
treatment  compliance  and  establish  baseline  values  of  efficacy  measures  for  the  double-blind 
treatment  period.  Subjects  not  taking  prohibited  BPH,  overactive  bladder,  or  ED  treatments  could 
return to the study site to start the placebo lead-in period as soon as screening results were available. 
Randomization  was  stratified  by  baseline  LUTS  severity  (total  IPSS  <20  or  ≥20),  geographic  region 
(US/Canada,  Latin  America  [Mexico],  Europe  [France,  Germany,  Greece,  Italy,  Spain,  and  Sweden], 
and Australia), and history of ED (yes/no). 
The primary objective of Study LVHG was to evaluate the efficacy of tadalafil 5 mg once a day for 12 
weeks compared to placebo in improving total IPSS in men with BPH-LUTS. 
The secondary efficacy objectives included: Examining whether a dose-response relationship exists for 
placebo  and  tadalafil  2.5,  5,  10,  and  20  mg  once  a  day  for  12  weeks  in  the  treatment  of  BPH-LUTS. 
Evaluating the efficacy of tadalafil 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg once a day for 12 weeks compared to placebo 
in the treatment of BPH-LUTS as assessed by the following measures:  total  IPSS  (for  tadalafil  2.5-, 
10-,  and  20-mg  doses);  IPSS  storage  and  voiding subscores  and  nocturia  question;  IPSS  QoL  Index; 
BII;  LUTS-General  Assessment  Questions  (GAQ);  uroflowmetry  parameters,  including  Qmax,  mean 
flow rate (Qmean), and voided volume (Vcomp); and IIEF EF Domain score in sexually active men with 
ED. 
While  uroflowmetry  measures  were  assessed  as  efficacy  measures  for  Study  LVHG,  for  consistency 
with the other BPH efficacy and safety studies, they were reported as safety measures for the purposes 
of this submission. 
For the description of study LVHR see section “Main clinical studies”. 
Results 
Page 9/56 
In Study LVHG, statistically significant improvements in total IPSS changes from baseline to endpoint 
were reported for all doses compared to placebo (range of mean differences: -3.8 to -5.2). Tadalafil 5 
mg dosed once daily provided a 63% improvement in total IPSS compared to tadalafil 2.5 mg. 
Table: Summary of Total IPSS Change Comparing Each Dose to Previous Dose - Study LVHG 
Additional improvement in mean total IPSS change from baseline values for tadalafil 10 mg, relative to 
the  tadalafil  5-mg  treatment  group,  was  minimal  and  there  was  no  additional  improvement  of  the 
tadalafil 20-mg group relative to the tadalafil 10-mg group, suggesting that the higher doses provided 
little additional benefit in improving total IPSS. For the secondary efficacy measure of BII, once-a-day 
dosing of tadalafil 5, 10, and 20 mg, but not 2.5 mg, resulted in statistically significant improvement in 
BII  mean  changes  from  baseline  compared  to  placebo.  All  tadalafil  doses  were  well  tolerated;  on  the 
other  hand,  the  incidence  of  patients  with  1  or  more  treatment-emergent  adverse  event  (TEAE) 
increased  with  increasing  tadalafil  dose.  Based  on  the  results  of  Study  LVHG,  2.5  and  5  mg  were 
selected  as  the  appropriate  doses  for  Study  LVHR.  In  Study  LVHR,  a  statistically  significant 
improvement in total IPSS change from baseline to endpoint compared to placebo was reported for the 
tadalafil 5-mg dose (mean difference: -2.3, p<.001), but not the tadalafil 2.5-mg dose (-0.8, p=.181). 
Similarly, results for BII were significant for 5 mg but not 2.5 mg. These results support that treatment 
with tadalafil 5 mg, but not 2.5 mg, is effective in treating the symptoms of BPH in adult males with 
ED. The AEs reported for the tadalafil 5-mg treatment group were similar to those of the tadalafil 2.5-
mg  treatment  group  in  this  population  of  men  and  were  consistent  with  the  known  AE  profile  of 
tadalafil. 
Main clinical studies 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  tadalafil  once-a-day  dosing  in  men  with  signs  and  symptoms  of  BPH  has 
been evaluated in four pivotal randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12-week, parallel-design, 
multinational BPH studies (Studies LVHG, LVHJ, LVHR and LVID) and one open-label extension period 
(LVHG).  Of  the  4  pivotal  studies,  study  LVHR  included  subject  with  both  BHP  and  ED.  Information 
about the dose-finding study LVHG is presented in the previous section. 
These  studies  were  conducted  in Australia  (LVHG, LVID),  Europe  and  Mexico  (LVHG,  LVHJ,  LVHR  and 
LVID), Latin America (LVHJ), Canada (LVHG, LVHR and LVID), and US (LVHG, LVHJ, and LVHR). 
1.4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
  Efficacy measures 
The primary efficacy measure was total International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) in studies LVHJ, 
and LVID. In Study LVHR, total IPSS was a co-primary efficacy measure with the International Index of 
Erectile Function (IIEF EF) Domain.  
Page 10/56 
  
 
 
The  IPSS  questionnaire  is  a  validated,  self-administered,  4-week  recall  questionnaire  used  to  assess 
the  severity  of  BPH-LUTS  as  well  as  the  therapeutic  efficacy  of  BPH  therapy.  This  questionnaire 
consists  of  7  questions  regarding  urinary  storage,  voiding,  and  nocturia  symptoms.  Each  question 
response  ranged  from  0  (none/not  at  all)  to  5  (almost  always/5  or  more  times).  Total  IPSS  ranged 
from a minimum of 0 to a maximum of 35. 
The IPSS questionnaire has also been used for the assessment of BPH-LUTS severity. Total IPSS may 
be used to classify LUTS into the following severity categories:  mild (total IPSS ≤7); moderate (total 
IPSS ≥8 to <20); and severe (total IPSS ≥20). 
The  IIEF  is  a  validated,  multidimensional,  self-administered,  4-week  recall,  15-question  instrument 
commonly  used  to  assess  therapeutic  efficacy  of  ED  therapy.  The  IIEF  has  5  domains:  EF  Domain, 
Orgasmic  Domain,  Sexual  Desire  Domain,  Intercourse  Satisfaction  Domain,  and  the  Overall 
Satisfaction Domain. 
Secondary  measures  included  Benign  Prostatic  Hyperplasia  Impact  Index  (BII)  and  patient  Sexual 
Encounter  Profile  (SEP)  diary.  The  BII  is  a  validated,  self-administered,  4-week  recall  questionnaire 
evaluating the impact of urinary problems on overall health and activity, with 4 questions. The BII had 
a range from 0 to 13; higher scores on the BII represented an increased perceived adverse impact of 
BPHLUTS on overall health and activity. 
The  BII  (in  studies  LVHJ  and  LVHR)  and  SEP  question  3  (study  LVHR),  were  key  secondary  efficacy 
variables  assessed  for  significance  as  part  of  a  gate-keeping  procedure  pre-specified  in  those  study 
protocols. Additional secondary endpoints were IPSS Quality of Life (QoL), Patient Global Impression of 
Improvement  (PGI-I,  in  Studies  LVHJ,  LVHR,  and  LVID),  Clinician  Global  Impression  of  Improvement 
(CGI-I, in Studies LVHJ, LVHR, and LVID) the mIPSS (after 1 week of treatment in study LVHJ, after 2 
weeks  of  treatment  in  studies  LVHR  and  LVID),  the  LUTS-GAQ  (Study  LVHG),  the  EF-GAQ  (Study 
LVHR), the TSS-BPH (Study LVID). All the studies assessed uroflowmetry variables of Qmax, Qmean, 
and  Vcomp  at  the  beginning  of  the  placebo  lead-in  period,  at  baseline  (after  the  placebo  lead-in 
period),  and  at  endpoint,  but  only  in  Study  LVHG,  a  dose-finding  study,  they  were  considered  as 
efficacy parameters, in the rest of the studies, they were considered as safety parameters.  
  Study designs 
Study  periods  were  as  follows:  4-week  single-blind,  once-a-day  placebo  lead-in  period  +  12  week 
placebo-controlled  double-blind  treatment  period  (LVHJ  and  LVHR)  or  12  week  placebo-  and 
tamsulosin-controlled  double-blind  treatment  period  (LVID)  +  one-year  open  label  extension  period 
with  tadalafil  5-mg  once-a-day  (LVHG).  Patients  taking  prohibited  BPH,  overactive  bladder,  or  ED 
treatment entered a 4-week wash-out period prior to the lead-in period.  
Page 11/56 
 
 
  Statistical methods 
Primary  and  secondary  outcomes  were  analysed  on  an  intent-to-treat  basis,  using  the  last-
observation-carried-forward (LOCF) and mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) methods for missing 
data. IPSS and BII responses were analyzed as changes from baseline to study endpoint. For sexually 
active subjects with ED within the integrated analysis set, the change in IIEF EF Domain scores were 
compared  for  the  placebo  and  tadalafil  treatment  groups  for  the  12-week  double-blind  treatment 
period. 
Efficacy data from the 1-year open-label extension are presented to support persistence of efficacy.  
P-values associated with estimated treatment group differences are assessed for significance at a two-
sided .05 level. 
  Study populations 
--General population studies 
Key  inclusion  criteria  for  the  pivotal  studies  included  subjects  ≥45  years  old,  who  had  BPH-LUTS  (as 
diagnosed by a qualified physician) for >6 months at screening, who had total IPSS ≥13 at the start of 
the placebo lead-in period and had a peak urinary flow rate (Qmax) ≥4 and ≤15 mL/sec at the start of 
the placebo lead-in period.  
Page 12/56 
 
 
 
Additional inclusion criteria in some of the studies included: subjects with PSA ≥4.0 to ≤10.0 ng/ml at 
screening  had  to  have  prostate  cancer  ruled  out  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  urologist  (Study  LVHJ), 
subjects  with  PSA  ≥4.0  to  ≤10.0  ng/ml  at  screening  had  to  have  documentation  of  a  histologic 
prostate biopsy negative for cancer within 12 months (Study LVHG). 
Study treatments were as follows: Tadalafil 2.5 mg once a day (LVHG and LVHR), Tadalafil 5 mg once 
a  day  (all  four  pivotal  studies),  Tadalafil  10  mg  once  a  day  (LVHG),  and  Tadalafil  20mg  once  a  day 
(LVHG). Placebo treatment groups were included in all four pivotal studies and tamsulosin 0,4md once 
a day was included as an active control in study LVID. 
Subjects  were  stratified  by  baseline  LUTS  severity  (total  IPSS  <20  or  ≥20),  geographic  region,  and 
history  of  ED  (yes/no).  Subjects  were  then  randomly  assigned  to  treatment  groups  in  a  1:1  manner 
(placebo, and tadalafil 5 mg) for study LVHJ,  and a 1:1:1 manner (placebo, tadalafil 5 mg, tamsulosin 
0.4 mg) for Study LVID. 
--Subjects with Erectile Dysfunction: Study LVHR 
Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  used  in  Study  LVHR  were  similar  to  those  for  the  BPH  Studies  LVHG 
and LVHJ and for the once-a-day ED studies. Additional key inclusion criteria were: subjects who had a 
history  of  ED  for  ≥3  months,  were  required  to  be  sexually  active  with  an  adult  female  partner  and 
expected  to  remain  sexually  active  with  the  same adult  female partner  for  the  duration  of  the  study, 
and required to make at least 4 sexual intercourse attempts during the 4-week placebo lead-in period. 
In study LVHR, subjects were stratified by baseline LUTS severity (total IPSS <20 or ≥20), geographic 
region, and baseline ED severity (mild, moderate, or severe as defined by the IIEF EF Domain score). 
Patients were randomised to tadalafil 2.5 mg once a day, tadalafil 5 mg once a day, or placebo (1.1:1). 
1.4.2.  Results 
Study  LVHJ  included  325  subjects  (164  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  and  161subjects  in  the  5  mg 
tadalafil treatment group) with an average age of 65 years. Most of the subjects completed the study 
(n=300, 92.3%). 
For  the  primary  endpoint,  treatment  with  tadalafil  5  mg  dosed  once  a  day  showed  a  statistically 
significant improvement in total IPSS change from baseline to endpoint as compared to placebo (mean 
difference: -1.9, p=.004), after 12 weeks of treatment. 
In  the  assessment  of  key  secondary  efficacy  measures,  treatment  with  tadalafil  5  mg  showed  a 
statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  IIEF  EF  Domain  score  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint 
compared to placebo in sexually active men with ED (p≤.001) and in total IPSS change from baseline 
after  4  weeks  of  treatment  with  tadalafil  5  mg  compared  to  placebo  (p=.003).  Regarding  mIPSS 
change from baseline after 1 week of treatment (compared to placebo) and BII change from baseline 
after 4 and 12 weeks of treatment (compared to placebo), the results were not statistically significant. 
Results of other secondary measures such as IPSS storage and voiding subscores and QoL Index were 
statistically  significant  for  the  tadalafil  treated  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group.  However,  there 
were  no  statistically  significant  improvements  in  the  IPSS  nocturia  question  in  subjects  treated  with 
tadalafil 5 mg compared to placebo. 
For  the  PGI-I  and  CGI-I,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  for  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group 
compared to placebo for the 3 response categories (p=.003 and p=.009, respectively). More subjects 
in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  reported  that  their  symptoms  were  “better”  at 
endpoint  (74.2%  versus  57.6%,  respectively).  Likewise,  clinicians  reported  that  more  subjects  in  the 
Page 13/56 
 
 
tadalafil  5mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  had  symptoms  categorised  as  “better”  at  endpoint 
(71.0% versus 55.1%, respectively).  
Study  LVID  included  511  subjects  (172  subjects  in  the  placebo  group,  171  subjects  in  the  5mg  
tadalafil  treatment  group,  and  168  subjects  in  the  0.4mg  tamsulosin  treatment  group),  with  an 
average age of 63 years. A total of 454 subjects (88.9%) completed the study.  
Treatment with tadalafil 5 mg showed a statistically significant improvement in total IPSS change from 
baseline  to  endpoint  compared  to  placebo  (mean  difference:  -2.1,  p=.001)  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment. 
The  arm  receiving  the  active  comparator,  tamsulosin  0.4  mg,  also  showed  a  statistically  significant 
improvement in total IPSS change from baseline to endpoint compared to placebo ( mean difference:  
-1.5,  p=.023).  Both  treatments  (tadalafil  5  mg  once  a  day  and  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  once  daily)  also 
showed  statistically  significant  improvements  in  mIPSS  (total  IPSS  change  from  baseline  to  Week  1) 
(both -1.5; p=.003 and p=.005, respectively). 
Treatment with tadalafil 5 mg once a day resulted in statistically significant improvements in total IPSS 
compared  to  placebo  for  Week  4  (-2.2,  p<.001)  and  Week  8  (-1.8;  p=.004).  Additionally,  using  an 
MMRM  (mixed  model  repeated  measures)  analysis,  it  also  showed  a  statistically  significant 
improvement  in  total  IPSS  compared  to  placebo  overall  (treatment  effect  p<.001)  and  at  Weeks  4 
(p<0.001), 8 (p=.005), and 12 (p=.005). 
Treatment with tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily also resulted in statistically significant improvements in 
total  IPSS  compared  to  placebo  for  Week  4  (-2.3,  p<.001)  and  Week  8  (-1.3;  p=.037).  Additionally, 
using  an  MMRM  analysis,  treatment  with  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant 
improvement  in  total  IPSS  compared  to  placebo  overall  (treatment  effect  p=.002)  and  at  Weeks  4 
(p<0.001), 8 (p=.029), and 12 (p=.026). 
For  the  secondary  efficacy  measures,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  BII  change 
from baseline to endpoint for the tadalafil 5-mg and tamsulosin 0.4-mg treatment groups compared to 
placebo (mean difference: -0.8, p=0.003 and -0.6, p=.026, respectively), for change from baseline to 
Week  4  (-0.8,  and  -0.9,  respectively  p<.001)  and  to  week  8  (-0.6,  p=0.023  and  (-0.6,  p=0.024, 
respectively). Additionally, using an MMRM analysis, both treatments showed a statistically significant 
improvement in BII compared to placebo overall (treatment effect: p<.001 and p=.003, respectively), 
at Weeks 4 (p<.001 both), week 8 (p=.026 and p=.022, respectively) and week 12 (p=.006, both).  
For the additional secondary efficacy measures, statistically significant improvements in change from 
baseline to endpoint for IPSS voiding sub-score were observed in both the tadalafil 5-mg and 
tamsulosin. 
0.4-mg  treatment  groups  compared  individually  to  placebo.  Neither  the  tadalafil  5-mg  nor  the 
tamsulosin  0.4-mg  treatment  group  had  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  IPSS  storage 
sub-score or in the IPSS nocturia question by ANCOVA when compared individually to placebo. 
The tadalafil 5-mg treatment group had a statistically significant improvement in change from baseline 
to  endpoint  for  IPSS  QoL,  whereas  Tamsulosin  0.4  mg  did  not  have  a  statistically  significant 
improvement compared to placebo for the same measure.  
For the PGI-I and CGI-I 3-response category analysis, there was a statistically significant difference for 
the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  compared  to  placebo  (p=.005  and  p=.013,  respectively),  but  not  for  the 
tamsulosin  0.4-mg  group  compared  to  placebo  (p=.116  and  p=.216,  respectively).  More  subjects  in 
the tadalafil 5-mg group reported that their symptoms were “better” at endpoint compared to placebo 
(78.1% versus 62.9%, respectively) and more clinicians in the tadalafil 5-mg group reported that their 
Page 14/56 
subjects’  symptoms  were  “better”  at  endpoint  compared  to  placebo  (76.1%  versus  62.5%, 
respectively). 
For  the  TSS-BPH,  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  for  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group 
compared  to  placebo  for  the  overall  score  and  the  “satisfaction  with  efficacy”  domain  (p=.005  and 
p=.003,  respectively)  but  not  for  the  “satisfaction  with  dosing”  or  “satisfaction  with  side  effects” 
domains. The tamsulosin 0.4-mg group was not statistically significantly different from placebo in TSS-
BPH overall or in any of the subdomains. 
 
Persistence of the effect (Open-label extension study LVHG) 
The long-term safety and persistence of efficacy of tadalafil in men with BPH-LUTS was evaluated in a 
1-year (52-week), open-label extension (OLE) of Study LVHG. All subjects who elected to continue into 
the  open-label  extension  were  treated  with  tadalafil  5  mg  once  a  day,  regardless  of  their  treatment 
assignment during the double-blind treatment period. The OLE included 428 subjects (from the US and 
Canada), with similar demographics and baseline characteristics to those of the entire population that 
participated  in  the  double-blind  treatment  period  of  Study  LVHG.  A  total  of  299  subjects  (69.9%) 
completed  the  Study  LVHG  open-label  extension.    The  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  was 
subject decision (14%), followed by reported adverse events (5.1%). Approximately 3,5% of patients 
discontinued  due  to  lack  of  efficacy.  Discontinuations  were  similarly  distributed  over  time,  with  the 
percentage  of  subjects  discontinuing  being  <10%  of  those  subjects  remaining  in  the  study  at  each 
open-label visit.  
For  those  subjects  assigned  to  placebo  or  tadalafil  2.5  mg  during  the  placebo-controlled  treatment 
period,  improvements  in  total  IPSS  occurred  during  the  first  month  of  the  open-label  extension  and 
persisted  to  the  end  of  the  open-label  extension.  For  subjects  who  remained  on  tadalafil  5  mg  or 
decreased from tadalafil 10 mg or tadalafil 20 mg to tadalafil 5 mg, the improvements obtained during 
the  double-blind  treatment  period  persisted  through  the  open-label  extension.  For  all  subjects  in  the 
open-label  extension,  a  similar  pattern  for  persistence  of  efficacy  was  observed  for  BII  over  both 
treatment periods. During the open-label extension, the proportion of discontinuations reported as due 
to  a  perceived  lack  of  efficacy  was  low  (3.5%).  The  MAH  concludes  that  these  data  support  the 
persistence  of  efficacy  (no  tachyphylaxis  or  tolerance  issues)  of  tadalafil  5  mg  once  a  day  in  the 
treatment of symptoms of BPH. 
Page 15/56 
 
Figure: Mean total International Prostate Symptom Score at baseline and each visit through the open-
label extension of Study LVHG. 
  Study in subjects with ED (LVHR) 
Study  LVHR  included  606  subjects  (200  subjects  in  the  placebo  group,  208  subjects  in  the  5mg  
tadalafil treatment group, and 198 subjects in the 2.5mg  tadalafil treatment group), with an average 
age of 63 years. A total of 526 subjects (86.8 %) completed the study.  
Treatment with tadalafil 5 mg showed a statistically significant improvement in total IPSS change from 
baseline  to  endpoint  compared  to  placebo  (mean  difference:  -2.3,  p<.001)  and  in  IIEF  EF  Domain 
score change from baseline to endpoint compared to placebo (mean difference: 4.7, p<.001) after 12 
weeks  of  treatment.  For  the  2.5  mg  dose,  the  co-primary  objectives  were  not  met  after  12  weeks  of 
once-a-day dosing. 
As  the  co-primary  efficacy  analyses  were  statistically  significant  only  for  tadalafil  5  mg,  the  key 
secondary efficacy measures, SEP Q3 and BII, were interpreted sequentially for statistical  significance 
only for tadalafil 5 mg, and not for the tadalafil 2.5-mg group, compared to placebo (as pre-specified 
by  the  3-step  gatekeeping  procedure).  There  was  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the 
percentage  of  “Yes”  responses  to  SEP  Q3  when  tadalafil  5  mg  was  compared  to  placebo  (mean 
difference  of  change:  19.7;  p<.001).  There  was  also  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  BII 
change from baseline to endpoint compared to placebo (mean difference: -0.9; p<.001). 
While  the  tadalafil  2.5-mg  dose  group  did  not  achieve  success  under  criteria  established  in  the 
gatekeeping procedure for the co-primary endpoints, an increase in the percentage of “Yes” responses 
to  SEP  Q3  (mean  difference:  12.5),  and  a  decrease  (mean  difference:  -0.4;  Table  2.7.3.5)  in  BII 
compared to placebo was observed in this group. 
Results of the additional secondary analyses were consistent with the primary analysis results; that is, 
tadalafil  5-mg  dosing,  but  not  tadalafil  2.5-mg  dosing,  statistically  significantly  improved  measures 
related  to  assessment  of  BPH-LUTS,  specifically  the  mIPSS  at  2  weeks  and  IPSS  storage  and  IPSS 
voiding  subscores  at  12  weeks.  Both  tadalafil  doses  statistically  significantly  improved  measures 
Page 16/56 
 
 
related  to  the  assessment  of  ED  (IIEF  Intercourse  Satisfaction  Domain,  the  IIEF  Overall  Satisfaction 
Domain,  IIEF  Q3  and  Q4,  SEP  Q2,  Q4,  and  Q5  at  12  weeks).  No  statistically  significant  differences 
were observed between  either tadalafil group versus the placebo group in the IPSS nocturia question 
or the IPSS QoL Index after 12 weeks of treatment. 
For the PGI-I, there was a statistically significant difference between the tadalafil 5-mg group (p<.001) 
and  the  tadalafil  2.5-mg  group  (p=.009)  compared  to  placebo  for  the  3  response  categories.  More 
subjects in the tadalafil 5-mg group (80.2%) and the tadalafil 2.5-mg group (73.5%) compared to the 
placebo group (57.3%) reported that their symptoms were “better” at endpoint. 
For  the  CGI-I,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  between  both  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group 
(p<.001) and the tadalafil 2.5-mg group (p=.011) compared to placebo for the 3 response categories. 
More clinicians in the tadalafil 5-mg group (77.2%) and the tadalafil 2.5-mg group (71.8%) compared 
to the placebo group (57.6%) reported that their subjects’ symptoms were “better” at endpoint (Table 
2.7.3.5). Results for the 7 response categories of CGI-I are provided in the CSR.  
For  the  EF-GAQ,  a  statistically  significantly  greater  percentage  of  subjects  in  both  the  tadalafil  5-mg 
treatment  group  (79.1%;  p<.001)  and  the  tadalafil  2.5-mg  treatment  group  (73.4%;  p<.001) 
responded “Yes” to Q1 when compared to placebo (40.0%). Of those subjects who responded “Yes” to 
Q1,  a  statistically  significantly  greater  percentage  of  subjects  in  both  the  tadalafil  5-mg  (74.5%; 
p<.001)  and  tadalafil  2.5-mg  (68.5%;  p<.001)  treatment  groups  responded  “Yes”  to  Q2  when 
compared to placebo (36.2%;). 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND meta-analysis) 
  Demographic and baseline characteristics 
The integrated analysis set included 752 subjects randomised to treatment with tadalafil 5 mg and 748 
subjects  randomised  to  treatment  with  placebo.  Demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  were 
similar  between  the  placebo  and  tadalafil  5  mg  treatment  groups  within  the  integrated  analysis  set, 
between  the  placebo and  tadalafil 5 mg treatment  groups within the 4 individual studies; and overall 
among the studies. The mean age of subjects was 63.1 years in both treatment groups, with 41.0% of 
subjects in both groups over age 65, and 11.2% of subjects in the taldalafil 5mg group and 12.4% in 
the  placebo  group  over  the  age  of  75.  The  majority  of  subjects  (approximately  86-87%)  were  white 
and mean BMI was approximately 28 kg/m2. Mean PSA (1.9-2.0 ng/mL), mean PVR volume and Qmax 
categories  were  similar  between  the  tadalafil  5mg  and  placebo  groups.  Approximately  13%  subjects 
reported  a  history  of  diabetes  mellitus,  39-40%  reported  hypertension,  and  46%  reported 
cardiovascular  disease.  At  baseline,  approximately  77-78%  subjects  had  ED  and  the  majority 
(approximately  65%)  of  subjects  had  mild  to  moderate  LUTS  severity  (IPSS<20).  The  majority  of 
subjects  were  classified  as  obstructed  (Qmax<15mL/sec).  Approximately  27%  of  subjects  received 
prior alpha-blocker therapy and 23% received prior PDE5-inhibitor therapy. 
 A  total  of  428  subjects  entered  the  Study  LVHG  open-label  extension.  Tadalafil  5  mg  was  the  only 
dose administered in the Study LVHG open-label extension. The baseline characteristics of the subjects 
who chose to continue in the open-label extension and of those subjects who entered the double-blind 
treatment period in the integrated analysis set were generally similar. 
Table  below  presents  an  overview  of  subject  demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  for  the 
integrated analysis set and the Study LVHG open-label extension: 
Page 17/56 
 
 
 
  Subject disposition 
In the integrated analysis set, there were 752 subjects randomly assigned to tadalafil 5 mg once a day 
(n = 212, Study LVHG; n = 161, Study LVHJ; n = 208, Study LVHR; n = 171, Study LVID) and 748 
subjects assigned to placebo (n= 212, Study LVHG; n= 164, Study LVHJ; n = 200, Study LVHR; n = 
172, Study LVID.). 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  approximately  88%  of  subjects  completed  the  double-blind  treatment 
period  of  the  studies.  Among  the  4  integrated  studies  and  between  treatment  groups  within  the 
studies, the percentages of subjects who completed the studies were similar. 
Among  the  4  Studies  LVHG,  LVHJ,  LVHR,  and  LVID,  the  percentages  of  subjects  completing  at  each 
time point (Day 28, Day 56, or Day 84) were similar between the tadalafil 5-mg and placebo treatment 
groups  within  the  integrated  analysis  set  and  within  the  individual  Studies  LVHG,  LVHJ,  LVHR  and 
LVID. 
For the Study LVHG open-label extension, the most common reason for discontinuation in the tadalafil 
5-mg treatment group was adverse event and in the placebo treatment group was subject decision. 
-- Comparison of Results in Subpopulations 
The efficacy of tadalafil 5 mg was evaluated in subgroups of the integrated analysis set to assess the 
effect  of  the  following  characteristics  or  demographic  factors  at  baseline  on  the  change  in  total  IPSS 
with tadalafil treatment: age ≤65 years and >65 years; age <75 years and ≥75 years; LUTS severity 
(IPSS  ≥20  and  IPSS  <20);  ED  status  (Yes/No);  previous  alpha-blocker  therapy  (Yes/No;  defined  as 
alpha-blocker  therapy  within  1  year  prior  to  screening  but  not  necessarily  at  screening);  previous 
PDE5-inhibitor therapy (Yes/No); region (EU/non EU). 
In addition, in a subgroup of patients with ED in the integrated analysis set, the efficacy of tadalafil 5 
mg  was  assessed  using  the  change  in  IIEF  EF  Domain.  The  4 integrated  Studies,  LVHG,  LVHJ,  LVHR, 
Page 18/56 
 
 
 
 
and  LVID  were  designed  to  test  their  respective  primary  objectives  and  as  such,  the  presented 
subpopulation analyses, which include smaller sample sizes, are exploratory. 
 Age 
LUTS severity 
ED status 
Previous Alpha-Blocker Therapy 
Previous PDE5 Inhibitor Use 
IIEF EF Domain in Sexually Active Subjects with ED 
Region (EU/Non-EU) 
Supportive studies  
--Asian studies 
Page 19/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study LVHT (pilot study), Study LVIA (dose-finding study), and Study LVHB (efficacy and safety study) 
were  conducted  to  investigate  tadalafil  for  the  treatment  of  BPH  in  Asian  men.  The  persistence  of 
efficacy was assessed in the open-label extension of Study LVIA.  
The  primary  objective  of  Study  LVHT  was  to  evaluate  the  change  from  baseline  of  tadalafil  5  mg 
compared to placebo in total IPSS after 12 weeks in Asian men with signs and symptoms of BPH, with 
Tamsulosin 0.2 mg was the active control. As a pilot study, it was not powered for the primary efficacy 
analysis.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  tadalafil  and  placebo  for  total  IPSS 
change  from  baseline  to  endpoint.  Nevertheless,  the  magnitude  of  improvement  in  total  IPSS  for  the 
tadalafil 5-mg group in Study LVHT was similar to that shown in the other Asian studies (Study LVHB 
and Study LVIA) and the integrated analysis set. 
Study  LVIA  included  422  randomised  subjects  in  the  primary  analysis  population  of  Study  LVIA 
(placebo, n=140; tadalafil 2.5 mg, n=142; tadalafil 5 mg, n=140). Baseline demographics and clinical 
characteristics  were  well balanced  between  treatment  groups.  The  results  showed  that  tadalafil  5  mg 
numerically improved total IPSS, but did not achieve statistical significance, which is not consitest with 
the  integrated  analysis  set  and  other  Asian  studies.  The  MAH  explains  this  due  to  differences  in  the 
statistical  analysis  methods  (including  statistical  power  and  site  effect),  differences  in  baseline 
characteristics (for example, BPH severity), and a relatively large placebo effect in Study LVIA. 
Study  LVHB  included  were  612  randomised  subjects  in  the  primary  analysis  population  (placebo, 
n=154;  tadalafil  2.5  mg,  n=151;  tadalafil  5  mg,  n=155;  and  tamsulosin  0.2  mg,  n=152).  Treatment 
with tadalafil 5 mg showed a statistically significant improvement in the mean total IPSS compared to 
placebo,  which  is  consistent  with  the  results  of  the  integrated  analysis  set.  The  active  control 
tamsulosin  0.2  mg  also  statistically  significantly  improved  the  mean  total  IPSS  compared  to  placebo, 
which is consistent with the results of tamsulosin 0.4 mg in Study LVID. 
Study LVIA Open-Label Extension assessed the long-term safety and persistence of efficacy of tadalafil 
5-mg  once-a-day  dosing.  When  combined  with  the  double-blind  treatment  period,  subjects  in  the 
open-label  extension  (n=394)  received  54  weeks  of study  drug  treatment.  Treatment  with  tadalafil  5 
mg resulted in a mean total IPSS change from baseline of the doubleblind treatment period to the end 
of  the  open-label  extension  treatment  period  (-5.6±5.9),  which  was  similar  to  the  change  observed 
from baseline of the double-blind treatment period in Study LVHG, in which the vast majority of men 
were Caucasian (non-Asian), to the end of the LVHG 52-week open-label extension. 
1.4.3.  Discussion 
In  support  of  this  variation  the  MAH  has  provided  four  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
12-week,  parallel-design,  multinational  studies  performed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
tadalafil once-a-day dosing in men with signs and symptoms of BPH.  
Studies LVHG (a dose finding study), LVHJ, and LVID were performed in the general BHP population, 
while  study  LVHR included  subjects  with  both  BHP  and  ED. Doses  of  2,5mg,  5mg,  10  mg  and  20  mg 
were  tested  in  the  treatment  of  BHP  compared  to  placebo  (study  LVHG).  Study  LVID  also  included 
tamsulosin 0,4mg once a day as a comparator.  
Results  from  study  LVHG  showed  a  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  primary  endpoint,  the 
International  Prostate  Symptom  Score,  for  tadalafil  5  mg  compared  to  placebo.  Minimal  additional 
improvements were observed for the higher dosing groups although statistically significant, they were 
not considered clinically meaningful by the MAH. That dose (5 mg) was the one selected for the three 
pivotal trials. 
Page 20/56 
 
The population of subjects participating in the pivotal trials seems mostly adequate and representative 
for  patients  with  BPH.  The  pivotal  studies  included  male  subjects  (mean  age  at  study  entry  63  years 
old),  with  BPH-LUTS.  Demographic  and  baseline  characteristics  were  comparable  across  treatment 
groups and within each trial. Most of the subjects randomised were White (>86%), with mild-moderate 
LUTS  at  baseline  (approximately  65%  had  IPSS<20),  and  reported  a  prior  history  of  ED  (77%). 
Approximately  27%  of  patients  had  a  prior  history  of  alpha-blocker  therapy,  indication  that  the  large 
majority of patients were not previously treated for BPH.  
Efficacy results of the general population studies showed a statistically significant improvement for the 
primary endpoint in patients treated with all doses of tadalafil compared to placebo. Across the studies, 
the results were mostly consistent, with the magnitude of the response (total IPSS change) for the 5 
mg  dose  between  these  studies  ranging  from  -4,8  to  -6,3  and  a  treatment  difference  compared  to 
placebo from -1,9 to -2,6. Some difference were noted between studies, such as a lower placebo effect 
in  study  LVHG  and  lower  total  IPSS  change  for  the  5mg  dose,  when  compared  with  the  rest  of  the 
studies.   
A  change  of  >3  in  IPSS  was  considered  a  clinical  meaningful  value  by  the  MAH,  reporting  data  from 
Barry et al, 1995. However, this value is adapted from 2 points in AUA Symptom index, and stands for 
patients  with  baseline  of  <20;  for  patients  with  baseline  >  20  the  significant  improvement  was  a 
difference  of  6  points.  Addressing  questions  from  the  CHMP  the  MAH  provided  analysis  of  data  that 
show  that  tadalafil  demonstrate  clinically  meaningful  efficacy  as  measured  by  percent  change  from 
baseline  in  total  IPSS  that  is  both  statistically  significant  and  of  the  same  magnitude  observed  with 
silodosin. 
With regards to BII and other secondary efficacy measures (IPSS storage, IPSS voiding, and IPSS QoL 
Index),  tadalafil  5  mg  showed  a  statistically  significant  improvement  from  baseline  to  endpoint 
compared  to  placebo  in  all  4  pivotal  studies,  with  exception  of  IPSS  QoL  Index  in  study,  which 
improved  numerically,  but  was  not  statistically  significant.  However,    for  the  IPSS  nocturia  question, 
only  tadalafil  20mg  showed  a  statistically  significant  improvement  with  a  numerical  difference 
compared to placebo that can be deemed not clinically relevant (-0,26). According to the MAH, tadalafil 
does  not  behave  differently  from  other  drugs  currently  approved  in  the  EU  to  manage  the  BHP 
symptoms.  
In study LVID, the efficacy of tadalafil compared to placebo was similar to that observed for tamsulosin 
compared  to  placebo  although,  a  statistical  comparison  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  not 
carried  out.  There  are  no  data  available  comparing  the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  with  5-  α  reductase 
inhibitors in this subpopulation of patients, nor is there any efficacy/safety data regarding the potential 
use  in  combination.  In  the  clinical  practice  the  use  in  combination  of  tadalafil  and  5-ARIs  may  be 
considered as a therapeutic option for certain patients. The MAH’s view drug-drug interactions are not 
expected  to  occur  in  theory,  it  is  however  encouraged  that  if  PK  and  PD  characterization  become 
available on the combination of tadalafil and 5-ARIs they should be provided.    
Study LVHR included subjects with BPH and ED and tested two doses of tadalafil (2,5 and 5 mg). Only 
treatment with tadalafil 5mg showed a statistically significant improvement in total IPSS change from 
baseline,  compared  to  placebo.  This  is  in  line  with  the  results  observed  in  the  other  studies.  In  the 
assessment  of  ED,  both  doses  tested  (2,5  mg  and  5mg)  statistically  significantly  improved  measures 
related  to  the  assessment  of  ED  (IIEF  Intercourse  Satisfaction  Domain,  the  IIEF  Overall  Satisfaction 
Domain, IIEF Q3 and Q4, SEP Q2, Q4, and Q5 at 12 weeks), as expected.  
The  maintenance  of  the  effect  has  been  evaluated  during  the  open  label  extension  periods  in  Study 
LVHG (52 weeks) conducted in US. Data provided compare efficacy measures at the end of the open-
label period to those at baseline (double-blind period). These data suggest that patients continuing on 
treatment during the open label period did not have a loss of efficacy, although the inherent limitations 
of  these  type  of  studies  (lack  of  comparator,  limited  follow  up  time,  and  the  large  number  of  the 
Page 21/56 
subjects (approximately 30%) in the open label extension period who did not complete the study) do 
not  allow  drawing  sound  conclusions  on  that.  To  address  questions  from  the  CHMP  whether 
discontinuations  might  include  patients  with  “self-perceived”  lack  of  efficacy,  the  MAH  has  provided 
additional  clarifications.  One  third  of  subjects  (129/428)  withdrew  from  the  study,  including  all 
reasons.    Half  of  those  subjects  (n=60,  14%)  reported  “subject’s  decision”  as  their  reason  to 
discontinue the study. Details are available only for 11 subjects (out of the 60 subjects) and the MAH 
agrees  that  their  reasons  for  discontinuation  could  indicate  lack  of  efficacy.  In  order  to  further 
investigate  the  lack  of  efficacy  as  a  potential  reason  for  discontinuation  under  “subject’s  decision” 
term,  the  MAH  reviewed  the  results  on  the  measures  of  efficacy  (IPSS).  A  distinct  behavior  was 
observed according the reason of withdrawal of the study: IPSSs reduction from baseline to end of OLE 
period was greater in patients discontinuing due to subject decision (-3.2) than in those due to lack of 
efficacy (+ 1.3). These features although indirect, would not support in principle the hypothesis of the 
presumable self perceived lack of efficacy in this group, hence this point was resolved.   
Regarding  the  long-term  effect  the  CHMP  raised  that  the  non-controlled  1  year-treatment  study  is 
insufficient to demonstrate the maintenance of the effect of tadalafil.  
Nevertheless,  even  though  the  maintanence  of  the  effect  has  not  formally  been  demonstrated,  the 
CHMP  accepted  that  data  from  these  subjects  from  the  52-week  open  label  study  does  not  seem  to 
indicate a loss of efficacy hence this issue was resolved.  
The  MAH  proposes  to  maintain  the  current  ED  recommendations  for  the  special  populations.  This  is 
deemed acceptable, provided that the SPC adequately reflects the evidence available supporting these 
recommendations in elderly patients, renal and hepatic impairment.   
When the analysis by subgroups was performed, no relevant differences were observed according the 
severity  of  the  condition  or  the  ED  co-morbidity.  A  more  marked  placebo  effect  was  shown  among 
naïve  patients,  which  may  be  responsible  of  the lower size  effect  of  tadalafil  with  respect  to  placebo. 
The observations in the very elderly patients (>75 years), do not allow for sound conclusions since size 
of this subgroup of patients was very small.  
1.5.  Clinical Safety aspects  
1.5.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
The primary safety analysis set (integrated safety analysis set) is based on integrated data from the 4 
phase  III  studies  LVID,  LVHG,  LVHJ,  and  LVHR  (n=1582,  752  of  them  received  tadalafil  5mg  once  a 
day). These studies were conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of tadalafil in men with signs and 
symptoms of BPH, were placebo-controlled, 12 weeks in duration, included a tadalafil 5-mg treatment 
group, used similar entry criteria for enrollment, similar patient populations, and shared similar efficacy 
and safety outcomes. Study LVHR was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of tadalafil in men 
with both BPH and ED, and study LVID included an active-control tamsulosin group, in addition to the 
tadalafil and placebo groups.  
The  long-term  safety  analysis  set  is  based  on  the  safety  data  from  the  1-year  open-label  extension 
period of study LVHG (n= 428 subjects on tadalafil 5 mg once a day). 
Other supportive studies provided by the MAH were not included in the primary safety analysis due to 
differences  in  study  design  or  different  study  populations.  These  supportive  studies  include:  safety 
studies  LVHK,  LVHS,  proof-of-concept  study  LVGC,  Clinical  Pharmacology  study  LVHN  and  the  Asian 
Page 22/56 
 
studies  previously  mentioned  in  this  AR.  Only  relevant  results  from  these  supportive  studies  are 
mentioned in this AR.  
Two specific safety studies assessed tadalafil once-a-day use in subjects with BPH; firstly to evaluate 
tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  use  in  combination  with  alpha  blockers  (Study  LVHS),  and  secondly,  to 
evaluate  tadalafil  20  mg  once-a-day  use  in  subjects  with  or  without  bladder  outlet  obstruction  to 
assess the urodynamic effects of tadalafil (Study LVHK).  
Additionally,  a  clinical  pharmacology  study  assessed  the  pharmacokinetics  and  haemodynamics  of 
tadalafil 20 mg once a day in elderly (between 70 and 85 years of age) and young (≤60 years of age) 
subjects with BPH (Study LVHN). 
Study LVGC was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, parallel-arm, proof-of-concept study 
designed to explore the efficacy and safety of tadalafil administered once a day for 12 weeks (5 mg for 
6 weeks followed by 20 mg for an additional 6 weeks) in men with BPH-LUTS. Because the duration of 
treatment was only 6 weeks at the 5-mg dose, Study LVGC was not integrated with the 4 pivotal trials 
included in the integrated analysis set.  
Page 23/56 
Patient exposure 
As  of  09  March  2011,  the  overall  exposure  to  tadalafil  included  approximately  22,400  subjects,  who 
had  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  in  completed  clinical  studies.  The  placebo-controlled  BPH  once-daily 
dosing studies included a total of 2500 subjects (n= 1058 in LVHG; n=325 in LVHJ; n=511 in LVID; n= 
606  in  LVHR).  A  total  of  428  subjects  enrolled  in  the  open-label  extension  study.  In  the  integrated 
analysis  set  (placebo-controlled  periods  of  Studies  LVID,  LVHG,  LVHJ,  and  LVHR)  and  the  long-term 
analysis  set  (Study  LVHG  1-year  open-label  extension)  supporting  the  safety  profile  of  tadalafil  5-mg 
once-daily  dosing  in  men  with  BPH,  1096  subjects  were  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg;  357  subjects  and 
283  subjects  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg  for  at  least  6  months  and  at  least  1  year, 
Page 24/56 
 
 
respectively.  In  subjects  >65  years  of  age,  440  subjects  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg;  127 
subjects  and  104  subjects  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg  for  at  least  6  months  and  at  least  1 
year, respectively. In subjects ≥75 years of age, 117 subjects have been exposed to tadalafil 5 mg; 35 
subjects  and  28  subjects  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg  for  at  least  6  months  and  at  least  1 
year, respectively, in placebo-controlled and open-label extension periods combined.  
Table  2.7.4.2  provides  the  number  of  subjects  exposed  and  subject-year  exposure  to  tadalafil  for  all 
doses in Studies LVID, LVHG, LVHJ, LVHK, LVHR, LVHS, and the open-label extension period of Study 
LVHG. 
Most subjects (86.6%) completed the double-blind treatment period, whereas slightly over two thirds 
(69.9%) completed the 1-year open-label extension period. 
During  the  placebo-controlled  treatment  periods,  few  subjects  (n=32,  3.8%)  discontinued  study 
participation early due to an adverse event (2.8% in placebo vs 3-5.7% in tadalafil groups). Similarly, 
during the extension periods, few subjects (n=18, 3.8%) discontinued study participation early due to 
an adverse event.  
1.5.2.  Results 
Adverse events 
Overall, the percentage of patients with at least 1 TEAE was significantly greater in the tadalafil 5-mg 
group  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (27.4%  versus  20.9%,  p=.003).  The  incidence  of  common 
TEAEs (events occurring in ≥1% of the tadalafil group) was low in patients receiving tadalafil 5 mg and 
>90%  of  the  events  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  The  AE  with  the  highest  incidence  in  the 
tadalafil  5-mg  treatment  group  was  headache.  Common  TEAEs  with  a  higher  incidence  in  patients 
receiving tadalafil compared with placebo were headache, back pain, dyspepsia, hypertension, pain in 
extremity,  diarrhoea,  dizziness,  myalgia,  and  gastrooesophageal  reflux  disease  (GERD);  headache, 
dyspepsia,  pain  in  extremity,  and  GERD  were  statistically  significantly  higher  compared  with  placebo. 
Among  the  TEAEs  that  were  reported  in  >1%  of  tadalafil  patients,  dyspnoea  was  the  only  TEAE  that 
was reported by a significantly greater percentage of patients in the tadalafil 5-mg group compared to 
the placebo group (4 patients [0.5%] versus 0 patients [0.0%], p=.045). Given that the patients had 
either  pre-existing  diseases  and  conditions  or  concomitant  medications  that  are  risk  factors  for 
dyspnoea,  no  causal  association  between  the  study  drug  and  dyspnoea  was  suggested.  One  TEAE  of 
priapism  was  reported  in  the  integrated  analysis  set  (a  patient  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  for  Study 
LVHR). 
The  overall  profile  of  AEs  was  comparable  between  the  integrated  BPH  studies  and  integrated  ED 
studies,  and  there  was  considerable  overlap  in  common  TEAEs  between  the  populations.  With  the 
exception of pain in the extremity, all of the common TEAEs in the integrated analysis set are already 
identified as adverse reactions in the current SPC for the treatment of ED. Pain in the extremity is also 
Page 25/56 
 
 
 
 
already identified as an adverse reaction in the existing SPC for Cialis once a day for the treatment of 
PAH. This event is not unexpected given that AE related to myalgia are known to occur with tadalafil 
therapy. Thus, no new safety concerns were identified. 
Table: Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (≥1%) Reported in the BPH Integrated Analysis 
Set or ED Integrated Studies for Tadalafil 5-mg Once-Daily Dosing 
Of  the  427  enrolled  patients  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  tadalafil  5  mg  in  the  long-term  analysis 
set, a total of 47.5% reported ≥1 TEAE. Although the percentage of patients reporting at least 1 TEAE 
was numerically greater in the long-term analysis set compared to that of the integrated analysis set 
(47.5%  versus  24.1%),  this  would  be  expected  given  that  the  patient  exposure  in  the  long-term 
analysis set is twice that of the integrated analysis set. The safety data from the long-term analysis set 
did  not  identify  any  new  safety  considerations  for  tadalafil  5-mg  once-a-day  when  used  in  the 
treatment of men with BPH-LUTS, beyond what has previously been identified for tadalafil 5-mg once-
a-day when used in the treatment of men with ED. 
Page 26/56 
 
Table:  Common  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  (≥1%)  in  the  Long-Term  Analysis  Set  by 
Decreasing Frequency in the Total Population Compared to Visit 7 (Baseline) Open-Label Extension  
Period Study LVHG 
In Study LVID (tadalafil 5 mg or placebo, with tamsulosin 0.4 mg as an active control), the percentage 
of  patients  reporting  at  least  1  TEAE  was  not  significantly  different  between  either  the  tadalafil  5-mg 
group (23.4%) or tamsulosin 0.4-mg group (23.8%) and the placebo group (20.3%). There were also 
no  statistically  significant  differences  between  either  treatment  group  and  the  placebo  group  in  the 
reporting  of  any  individual  TEAEs.  Common  TEAEs  by  decreasing  frequency  in  the  tadalafil  treatment 
group in Study LVID are summarized below. 
Page 27/56 
 
Common Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by Decreasing Frequency in the Tadalafil Treatment 
Group Double-Blind Treatment Period Study H6D-MC-LVID 
Common  TEAEs  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  reported  with  a  higher  incidence  than  placebo  were 
headache,  back  pain,  dizziness,  dyspepsia,  flushing,  GERD,  pain  in  extremity,  cough,  dyspnoea, 
gastritis,  and  musculoskeletal  pain.  Common  TEAEs  in  the  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  group  reported  with  a 
higher  incidence  than  placebo  were  headache,  dizziness,  dyspepsia,  cough,  back  pain,  flushing,  and 
rash.  Ejaculatory  dysfunction,  an  AE  known  to  be  associated  with  some  alpha  blockers  (Oelke  et  al. 
2011),  was  reported  by  1  patient  in  the  tamsulosin  group  and  no  patients  in  the  tadalafil  group. 
Together these data suggest that the overall tolerability of tadalafil and tamsulosin relative to placebo 
appear  similar with few differences in the overall AE profile, although the study was not designed for 
direct  statistical  comparisons  between  the  active  treatment  groups.  These  findings  support  the 
conclusion that the TEAE profile of tadalafil 5 mg once a day in men with BPH-LUTS is consistent with 
that  previously  established  for  tadalafil  once  a  day  for  treatment  of  ED,  and  no  new  safety  concerns 
were  identified.  There  were  no  new  safety  concerns  with longer-term  treatment  relative  to  either  the 
12-week double-blind phases of the BPH studies or the long-term safety data in men with ED. Based 
on  the  overall  frequency  of  TEAEs,  the  tolerability  of  tadalafil  appears  to  be  very  similar  to  that  of 
tamsulosin. 
Labelling Considerations for the SPC 
With regard to the SPC, adverse drug reactions (ADRs) from clinical trials to be included in Section 4.8 
were  identified  using  methodology  and  criteria  consistent  with  that  used  in  previous  updates  to  the 
tadalafil label. Statistical criteria together with medical judgement based on biological plausibility were 
used  to  evaluate  AEs  for  whether  a  causal  relationship  between  tadalafil  and  the  AE  is  a  reasonable 
possibility. Similar evaluations were performed for laboratory and vital sign parameters. As a result of 
this latest analysis including BPH data, only 1 new ADR has been included in the SPC; namely, pain in 
the extremity. The frequencies of a number of existing adverse reaction terms have also been updated 
based on a large, combined database of ED and BPH placebo controlled trials as both the ED and BPH 
Page 28/56 
 
populations  are  similar  with  a  comparable  safety  profile  between  these  2  patient  populations.  Table 
underneath  provides  the  reporting  frequencies  for  the  new  term  and  those  terms  where  the  SPC 
frequency category changed. In addition, as 1 case of priapism has now been reported in clinical trials, 
the  footnote  previously  indicating  that  this  event  was  only  seen  in  spontaneous  reporting  has  been 
removed. 
New and Updated Adverse Reaction Terms in the SPC 
Severity Profile 
The  vast  majority  (93%)  of  AEs  reported  in  the  integrated  analysis  set  were  mild  or  moderate  in 
severity, the overall incidence of AEs leading to discontinuation was low, and the incidence of SAEs was 
not  significantly  different  between  tadalafil  and  placebo  groups  (p=.318).  The  incidence  of  severe 
TEAEs  reported  in  men  with  BPH-LUTS  receiving  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  was  low  (2%)  and 
comparable  to  that  reported  in  men  receiving  tadalafil  5  mg  once-a-day  for  ED  (3.6%).  Four  TEAEs 
were  reported  as  severe  in  the  tadalafil  5  mg  group  in  more  than  1  patient  (2  patients  each):  back 
pain, myalgia, pain, and pancreatitis. Back pain and myalgia are already identified as adverse reactions 
in  the  current  SPC  for  the  treatment  of  ED.  The  cases of  pancreatitis  occurred  in  patients  with  either 
pre-existing diseases  and  conditions  or  concomitant  medications  that  are  risk  factors  for pancreatitis. 
Therefore  pancreatitis  was  not  considered  an  adverse  reaction.  Data  from  the  long-term  analysis  set 
indicated that the AEs continued to remain mild to moderate in severity with long-term use of tadalafil 
in patients with BPH-LUTS. Of the 203 patients reporting at least 1 TEAE in the long-term analysis set, 
87.2%  of  these  TEAEs  were  reported  as  being  mild  or  moderate  in  intensity.  In  addition,  data  from 
Study  LVID  indicates  that  the  severity  profile  for  AEs  reported  was  similar  between  patients  treated 
with tadalafil and patients treated with tamsulosin. The percentage of patients reporting a severe TEAE 
was  1.8%  in  both  the  tadalafil  and  tamsulosin  groups,  compared  with  0.6%  in  the  placebo  group.  In 
summary,  there  were  no  notable  differences  in  the  severity  profile  of  AEs  with  tadalafil  5  mg  once  a 
day in men with BPH-LUTS from the known safety profile of once-a-day tadalafil in men with ED. 
Relation to Dose 
All doses of tadalafil (2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg) studied in men with BPH-LUTS were well tolerated in the 
dose  range  Study  LVHG.  The  incidence  of  patients  with  1  or  more  TEAEs  increased  with  increasing 
tadalafil  dose  (placebo,  21.2%;  tadalafil  2.5  mg,  26.8%;  5  mg,  30.7%;  10  mg,  34.7%;  20  mg, 
39.7%). The difference in percent of patients who reported at least 1 TEAE was not significant between 
tadalafil  2.5  mg  and  placebo  (p=.209),  with  the  increase  in  TEAE  rate  seen  for  tadalafil  5  mg  driven 
Page 29/56 
 
 
primarily by increased reports of dyspepsia (1.0% for tadalafil 2.5 mg versus 4.7% for tadalafil 5 mg). 
There was a statistically significant increase compared to placebo in the number of patients in tadalafil 
10 and 20 mg treatment groups who reported back pain, dyspepsia, and myalgia. Similarly, in Study 
LVHR  (which  included  both  tadalafil  2.5-  and  5-mg  dose  groups),  the  incidence  of  TEAEs  was 
numerically  higher  in  the  5-mg  group  compared  with  the  2.5-mg  group,  with  more  reports  of 
headache,  back  pain,  and  dyspepsia.  Serious  adverse  events  in  the  tadalafil  treatment  groups  were 
rare and no dependence on dose in the reporting of SAEs was apparent in Study LVHG or Study LVHR. 
There  was  no  relationship  between  dose  and  the  incidence  of  severe  TEAEs  in  either  study.  Together 
these data show that the overall frequency of TEAEs increase with increasing tadalafil dose in men with 
BPH-LUTS,  as  observed  previously  with  tadalafil  for  the  treatment  of  ED.  The  events  primarily 
responsible for the increase in TEAEs by dose in men with BPH-LUTS are those known to be associated 
with tadalafil therapy (headache, dyspepsia, back pain, and myalgia) and are consistent with the AEs 
known 
to 
increase  by 
tadalafil  dose 
for 
treatment  of  ED 
(EU/1/02/237/001-004; 
EMEA/H/C/436/X/0026-0027). The frequency of headache, dyspepsia, back pain, and myalgia in men 
with BPH  treated  with  tadalafil  5  mg once  a  day  in  the  integrated  analysis set  was  comparable  if  not 
slightly lower to the frequencies of these events reported for tadalafil 5 mg dosed once a day for ED, 
and  the  frequency  of  these  same  events  are  higher  in  men  treated  with  tadalafil  10  or  20  mg  as 
needed for ED (EU/1/02/237/001-004). Collectively, these data suggest that the frequency of the most 
common  AEs  associated  with  tadalafil  use  increase  at  higher  doses.  Given  this,  the  MAH  proposes 
adding the following statement to SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable Effects – Summary of the safety profile: 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients taking tadalafil for the treatment of erectile 
function  or  BPH  were  headache,  dyspepsia,  back  pain,  and  myalgia,  in  which  the  incidences  increase 
with increasing dose of tadalafil. 
Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  by  Decreasing  Frequency  of  Occurrence  in  Greater  than  2%  of 
Patients in Any Tadalafil Group Study LVHG 
Four subjects died in BPH studies. One subject died during Study LVHJ (tadalafil 5 mg), approximately 
2.5  months  after  receiving  the  first  dose  of  study  drug.  The  subject  was  hospitalised  and  diagnosed 
with  an  acute  posterior  myocardial  infarction  (MI)  and  third-degree  atrioventricular  heart  block;  his 
condition  worsened  and  he  died  3  days  later.  One  subject  in  Study  LVHR  receiving  tadalafil  2.5  mg, 
died approximately 1 day after his last dose of study drug; the death certificate indicated the cause of 
death as MI. One subject in Study LVHK receiving placebo (with pre-existing conditions of ED, type 2 
diabetes mellitus, and GERD) died of an MI approximately 2 months after initially receiving study drug.  
One  death  was  reported  during  the  open-label  extension  period  of  Study  LVIA.  One  subject  receiving 
tadalafil  5  mg  died  of  a  subarachnoid  haemorrhage,  approximately  5  months  after  he  enrolled  in  the 
open-label extension period (Visit 7). 
Page 30/56 
 
Only  the  death  in  study  LVHJ  was  considered  by  the  investigator  as  being  possibly  related  to  study 
drug. A review of individual subject data for the 3 deaths in tadalafil-treated subjects indicated all the 
subjects had preexisting risk factors for MI or subarachnoid haemorrhage. 
-- Other Serious Adverse Events 
Overall,  11  subjects  reported  16  SAEs.  The  number  of  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  SAE  was  not 
significantly  different  between  treatment  groups.  Six  subjects  (0.8%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group 
reported 7 SAEs, and 5 subjects (0.7%) in the placebo group reported 9 SAEs. Serious adverse events 
that  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  possibly  related  to  study  drug  were  reported  in  2 
subjects:  1  subject  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  in  study  LVHJ  experienced  an  SAE  of  acute  MI  that 
resulted in death, and 1 subject in the placebo group in Study LVHG experienced an SAE of rheumatoid 
arthritis.  In  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group,  2  subjects  reported  an  SAE  of  pancreatitis,  and  1  subject 
reported  an  SAE  of  haemorrhagic  pancreatitis.  These  3  SAEs  were  considered  unrelated  to  the  study 
drug  by  the  investigator.  Additionally,  the  review  of  medical  summaries  of  these  3  pancreatitis  cases 
does  not  suggest  any  causal  association  with  the  study  drug.  The  subjects  had  either  preexisting 
diseases and conditions or concomitant medications that are risk factors for pancreatitis. Additionally, 
the  cardiovascular  SAEs  reported  in  the  tadalafil  group  in  the  integrated  analysis  set  (acute  MI, 
coronary  artery  disease,  and  endocarditis)  were  reported  in  elderly  patients  with  preexisting 
cardiovascular  diseases  or  risk  factors  (for  example,  coronary  artery  disease,  arrhythmias, 
hypertension, or hyperlipidemia). 
In the long-term analysis set, 20 subjects (4.7%) reported 23 SAEs. Serious adverse events that were 
considered by the investigator to be possibly related to study drug were transient global amnesia (one 
subject,  previously  on  tadalafil  5  mg,  reported  transient  global  amnesia  approximately  4  days  after 
study completion, occurred while exercising and lasted for approximately 1 hour) and coronary artery 
disease (one subject with a history of hypercholesterolemia and previously on tadalafil 10 mg, reported 
worsening of coronary artery disease).  
In  Study  LVID  (tadalafil  5  mg  or  placebo,  with  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  as  an  active  control),  4  subjects 
reported  an  SAE:  2  subjects  (1.2%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  reported  2  SAEs  (coronary  artery 
disease  and  pancreatitis)  and  2  subjects  (1.2%)  in  the  tamsulosin  0.4-mg  group  reported  6  SAEs 
(dyspepsia  in  1  subject,  and  dizziness,  flushing,  headache,  hyperhidrosis,  and  tachycardia  in  another 
subject).  One  SAE  (tachycardia)  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  drug 
(tamsulosin 0.4 mg). 
In Study LVHK, 3 subjects reported 4 SAEs: 1 subject (1.0%) in the tadalafil 20-mg group reported 2 
SAEs  (pleurisy  and  pneumonia)  and  2  subjects  (2.0%)  in  the  placebo  group  reported  2  SAEs 
(hypoasthesia and MI). The event of MI resulted in death (described previously). None of these SAEs 
were considered by the investigator to be related to study drug or protocol procedure. 
In  Study  LVHS  (tadalafil  5  mg  or  placebo  coadministered  with  alpha-blocker  therapy),  6  subjects 
reported  8  SAEs,  with  3  subjects  (1.9%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  reporting  4  SAEs  of  cellulitis, 
Mallory-Weiss syndrome, and fall and tendon rupture (both in 1 subject), and 3 subjects (1.9%) in the 
placebo group reporting 4 SAEs of non-cardiac chest pain, fall and hip fracture (both in 1 subject), and 
pacemaker lead dislodgement. None of these SAEs were considered by the investigator to be related to 
study drug or protocol procedure. 
In the clinical pharmacology analysis set, few SAEs were reported in any treatment group: 3 SAEs in a 
total  of  2080  subjects  receiving  tadalafil  (tadalafil  5  mg:  angina  pectoris  and  spinal  laminectomy; 
tadalafil  40  mg:  spontaneous  tension  pneumothorax)  versus  6  SAEs  in  a  total  of  1289  subjects 
Page 31/56 
 
 
receiving  placebo  (adenocarcinoma,  unstable  angina,  appendectomy,  circulatory  collapse,  injury,  and 
sinus arrest). 
Special Safety Topics 
Based  on  previous  experience  of  tadalafil  in  the  treatment  of  ED  and  PAH, a  number  of  safety  topics 
have  been  investigated.  These  special  safety  topics  are  bleeding  events,  cardiovascular  events,  ear 
disorders (including sudden hearing loss), eye disorders (including nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic 
neuropathy  [NAION]),  TEAEs  possibly  related  to  hypotension,  myalgias  and  back  pain,  seizures,  and 
transient  global  amnesia.  For  the  special  safety  topics,  incidence  rates  adjusted  for  time  of  exposure 
are presented for the tadalafil 5-mg groups of both analysis sets. 
In the assessment of special safety topic TEAEs, no new safety concerns with tadalafil were identified. 
When adjusted for time of exposure, the incidence rates of the special safety topic TEAEs for the long-
term analysis set were either lower than or generally similar to the incidence rates reported in the 12-
week,  double-blind  periods  of  the  integrated  analysis  set.  Although  special  safety  topics  were  not 
specifically  analysed  in  the  other  individual  studies,  a  review  of  individual  TEAEs  reported  in  Studies 
LVHS,  LVHK,  the  clinical  pharmacology  analysis  set,  Study  LVGC,  and  studies  performed  in  Asian 
countries  were  consistent  with  the  findings  from  the  integrated  analysis  set  with  respect  to  these 
special safety topics, with no new or unique safety findings. 
-- Bleeding Events 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  8  subjects  (1.1%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  reported  a  total  of  8 
bleeding  TEAEs  compared  to  none  in  the  placebo  group  (p=.005).  The  bleeding  TEAEs  reported  were 
epistaxis 
(3  subjects)  and  haematochezia,  haematospermia,  haemorrhoidal  haemorrhage, 
haemorrhagic  pancreatitis,  and  rectal  haemorrhage  (in  1  subject  each).  The  TEAE  of  haemorrhagic 
pancreatitis  was  an  SAE  that  led  to  study  discontinuation  (described  previously).  No  other  bleeding 
TEAEs were SAEs or led to study discontinuation.  
In the long-term analysis set, 9 subjects (2.1%) reported at total of 9 bleeding TEAEs: haematuria (3 
subjects)  and  contusion  (2  subjects)  and  ecchymosis,  eye  haemorrhage,  haematoma,  and  intra-
abdominal  haematoma  (in  1  subject  each).  None  of  the  bleeding  events  were  SAEs  or  led  to  study 
discontinuation.  When  adjusted  for  time  of  exposure,  the  incidence  rate  for  subjects  with  bleeding 
TEAEs in the in the long-term analysis set was 2.6 subjects per 100 person-years, which is numerically 
lower  than  the  incidence  rate  observed  in  the  integrated  analysis  set  (4.8  subjects  per  100  person-
years).  No  new  safety  concerns  relating  to  bleeding  events  were  identified  in  subjects  receiving 
tadalafil 5 mg once a day for BPH-LUTS compared to the known safety profile of tadalafil.  
-- Cardiovascular disorders and events possibly related to hypotension events  
There was no evidence suggestive of an adverse effect on the cardiovascular system, including events 
possibly  related  to  hypotension,  related  to  tadalafil  treatment.  No  ischemic  or  haemorrhagic 
cerebrovascular  events  were  reported  for  any  patient  assigned  to  tadalafil  in  the  integrated  analysis 
set.  No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  tadalafil  5-mg  and  placebo  groups  in  the 
percentage  of  patients  reporting  at  least  1  cardiovascular  disorder  TEAE  or  any  individual 
cardiovascular  disorder  TEAE,  including  those  possibly  related  to  hypotension.  The  issue  of 
cardiovascular events and specifically the risk of hypotension/increased hypotensive effect is therefore 
considered to be adequately addressed in the Contraindications, Special Warnings, and Precautions for 
Use,  and  Undesirable  Effects  sections  of  the  current  SPC  for  Cialis  with  no  requirement  for  change. 
There will continue to be routine pharmacovigilance activities and targeted follow up supporting review 
of terms related to the risk of hypotension as detailed in the RMP. 
Page 32/56 
 
 
 
 
-- Hypertension 
In the integrated analysis set, 17 subjects reported a TEAE of hypertension: 12 (1.6%) in the tadalafil 
5-mg  group  and  5  (0.7%)  in  the  placebo  group.  Of  these  17  subjects,  12  subjects  had  their  highest 
systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure measurement during the study recorded prior to randomisation 
(4  in  placebo  and  8  in  tadalafil),  and  14  subjects  (5  in  placebo,  9  in  tadalafil)  had  at  least  1  blood 
pressure measurement prior to randomisation that already met the European Society of Hypertension 
(ESH)-European Society of Cardiology (ESC) criteria for Grade 1 or Grade 2 hypertension.  
In  Studies  LVHG  and  LVID,  blood  pressure  measurements  were  taken  in  the  sitting  position,  and  in 
Studies  LVHJ  and  LVHR  (which  included  orthostatic  vital  sign  measurements),  blood  pressure 
measurements  were  taken  in  the  supine  position.  As  such,  the  sitting  blood  pressure  measurements 
from  Studies  LVHG  and  LVID  were  combined  with  the  supine  blood  pressure  measurements  from 
Studies LVHJ and LVHR. 
The  percentages  of  subjects  with  treatment-emergent systolic hypertension in  all  3  categories  (grade 
1-3 hypertension according to ESH-ESC) were numerically lower in the tadalafil 5-mg group compared 
with  placebo  group,  although  these  differences  were  not  statistically  significant.  The  percentages  of 
subjects  with  treatment-emergent  Grade  1  or  higher  and  Grade  3  diastolic  hypertension  were 
numerically  but  not  statistically  significantly  lower  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  compared  with  the 
placebo  group,  and  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  Grade  2  or  higher  hyptertension  was  statistically 
significantly lower in the tadalafil 5-mg group compared with the placebo group (p=.042).  
In summary, although an increased incidence of the TEAE of hypertension was observed in the tadalafil 
subjects  compared  to  placebo  in  the  integrated  analysis  set,  most  of  these  subjects  had  either 
preexisting high blood pressure or risk factors for it. Review of subjects’ pre- and post-randomisation 
serial  blood  pressure  values  finds  no  evidence  for  treatment-emergent  increases  in  blood  pressure  in 
subjects with the TEAE of hypertension in the integrated analysis set.  
The MAH argues that the discrepancy between the reported TEAE of hypertension in tadalafil subjects 
compared to placebo subjects and the objective serial blood pressure measurements in the integrated 
analysis  set  appears  to  be  a  chance  finding  refuted  by  objective  blood  pressure  measures  and  the 
recognised mechanism of action (MOA) of tadalafil as a mild vasodilator. 
-- Ear Disorders 
In the integrated analysis set, no significant differences were observed between the tadalafil 5-mg and 
placebo  groups  in  the  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  ear  disorder  TEAEs.  Seven  subjects  (0.5%) 
reported  a  total  of  8  ear  disorder  TEAEs:  2  subjects  (0.3%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  reported  2 
events (deafness and vertigo), and 5 subjects (0.7%) in the placebo group reported 6 events (vertigo 
[3 subjects], balance disorder and labyrinthitis [1 subject], and vertigo positional [1 subject]). None of 
these events were SAEs or led to study discontinuation. The event of deafness was reported in an 82-
year-old subject approximately 12 weeks after randomization and was reported as resolved at the final 
visit.  The  event  was  not  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  drug,  and  the  subject 
completed the study.  
In the long-term analysis set, 5 subjects (1.2%) reported 8 ear disorder TEAEs: tinnitus (2 subjects); 
deafness  unilateral,  tinnitus,  and  vertigo  positional  (1  subject);  tinnitus  and  vertigo  (1  subject);  and 
vertigo (1 subject). None of these events were SAEs, and only the event of unilateral deafness led to 
study discontinuation. This event was reported in a 73-year-old subject approximately 6 months after 
entering the long-term extension phase of Study LVHG, who had previously received tadalafil 2.5 mg in 
the double-blind phase. The investigator believed the event was possibly related to study drug, and the 
subject  discontinued  the  study  due  to  this  event.  When  adjusted  for  time  of  exposure,  the  incidence 
rate  for  subjects  with  ear  disorder  TEAEs  in  the  long-term  analysis  set  was  1.4  subjects  per  100 
Page 33/56 
 
person-years,  which  is  similar  to  observed  rate  in  the  integrated  analysis  set  (1.2  subjects  per  100 
person-years). 
No safety concerns relating to ear disorders were identified in subjects receiving tadalafil 5-mg once-
daily dosing for BPH-LUTS. 
-- Eye Disorders 
In the integrated analysis set, no significant differences were observed between the tadalafil 5-mg and 
placebo  groups  in  the  percentages  of  subjects  reporting  eye  disorder  TEAEs.  Seven  subjects  (0.5%) 
reported 9 eye disorder TEAEs: 5 subjects (0.7%) in the tadalafil 5-mg group reported 7 events (vision 
blurred  [4  subjects]  and  photopsia,  retinal  tear,  and  vitreous  floaters  [1  subject]),  and  2  subjects 
(0.3%)  in  the  placebo  group  reported  2  events  (vision  blurred  and  photopsia).  None  of  these  events 
were  SAEs.  Two  events  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  led  to  study  discontinuation:  vision  blurred  and 
retinal tear.  
In  the  long-term  analysis  set,  6  subjects  (1.4%)  reported  6  eye  disorder  TEAEs:  vision  blurred  (3 
subjects)  and  Basedow’s  disease  (reported  as  a  SAE),  eye  haemorrhage,  and  visual  impairment  (1 
subject  each).  When  adjusted  for  time  of  exposure, the  incidence  rate  for  subjects  with  eye  disorder 
TEAEs in the long-term analysis set was 1.7 subjects per 100 person-years, which is numerically lower 
than the incidence rate observed in the integrated analysis set (3.0 subjects per 100 person-years).  
No TEAEs indicative of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) were reported in either 
analysis set and no other safety concerns relating to eye disorders were identified in subjects receiving 
tadalafil 5-mg once-daily dosing for BPH-LUTS. 
-- Myalgias and Back Pain 
While the percentage of patients reporting at least 1 myalgia/back pain TEAE was significantly greater 
in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (p=.002),  2  common  TEAEs  reported 
(back  pain  and  myalgia)  are  known  to  be  associated  with  tadalafil  and  are  identified  as  adverse 
reactions  in  the  existing  SPC  for  Cialis.  However  pain  in  extremity  was  reported  by  a  significantly 
greater  percentage  of  patients  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (1.5% 
versus  0.0%,  p<.001)  and  hence  it  is  proposed  that  this  term  be  added  to  the  SPC  as  a  common 
adverse reaction. 
-- Seizures 
No seizure TEAEs were reported in either the integrated or long-term analyses sets. 
-- Transient Global Amnesia 
No safety concerns relating to transient global amnesia were identified in subjects receiving tadalafil 5-
mg once-daily dosing for BPH-LUTS. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory evaluations included chemistry, haematology, and urinalysis. In addition, treatment-
emergent  elevations  in  hepatic-related  analytes  (ALT  ≥3  times  ULN,  AST  ≥3  times  ULN,  and  total 
bilirubin ≥2 times ULN) were evaluated.  
 --Chemistry 
For  the  integrated  analysis  set,  changes  from  baseline  to  last  observation  for  chemistry  laboratory 
values between the tadalafil 5-mg and placebo groups were not statistically significant, except for the 
mean  change  from  baseline  to  last  observation  in  alkaline  phosphatase  (tadalafil  5  mg:  -3.24  U/L, 
Page 34/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo: -1.26 U/L; p<.001) and chloride (tadalafil 5 mg: -0.19 mm/L, placebo: -0.60 mm/L; p=.010), 
which were not considered clinically meaningful. 
In the long-term analysis set, changes in chemistry values from baseline to endpoint and from Visit 6 
to  endpoint  were  minimal  and  no  clinically  meaningful  findings  were  observed.  In  the  long-term 
analysis  set,  3  subjects  had  elevated  hepatic-related  serum  chemistry  test  results  (ALT  or  AST  ≥3 
times ULN). No subjects had increased total bilirubin levels (≥2 times ULN).  
-- Haematology 
For the integrated analysis set, changes from baseline to last observation for haematology laboratory 
values between the tadalafil 5-mg and placebo groups were not statistically significant, except for the 
mean  change  from  baseline  to  last  observation  in eosinophils  (tadalafil  5  mg:  -0.01  bill/L,  placebo:  -
0.00  bill/L;  p=.045),  lymphocytes  (tadalafil  5  mg:  -0.04  bill/L,  placebo:  0.04  bill/L;  p=.001),  and 
platelet  count  (tadalafil  5  mg:  -9.00  bill/L,  placebo:  -4.41  bill/L;  p=.030),  which  were  not  clinically 
meaningful. 
In the long-term analysis set, changes in haematology values from baseline to endpoint and from Visit 
6  to  endpoint  were  minimal.  Seven  subjects  reported  a  low  platelet  count  (<130  x  109/L);  however, 
none had a platelet count consistent with thrombocytopenia (<100 x109/L). One subject had a history 
of leukopenia, and was taking steroids. Two other subjects took steroids. One subject took clopidogrel, 
which  has  been  associated  with  thrombocytopenia.  One  subject  also  had  laboratory  abnormalities  of 
macrocytes and anisocytosis; his concomitant medications included colchicine for gout. The remaining 
subjects had platelet counts of 188 x 109/L and 179 x 109/L, respectively, at the last visit. For these 
subjects, baseline values ranged from 127 to 227 x 109/L. One subject taking tadalafil 2.5 mg per day, 
reported  mild  epistaxis  throughout  the  treatment  phase  of  the  study  (Visits  4  to  12).  His  lowest 
platelet  count  was  114  x  109/L  at  Visit  8;  his  platelet  count  was  156  x  109/L  at  baseline  and  151  x 
109/L at Visit 12. In summary, the finding of low platelet count appears to be coincidental to tadalafil 
use, and usually explainable by use of other concomitant drugs or conditions. 
-- Urinalysis 
No  clinically  adverse  or  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  tadalafil  5-mg 
and  placebo  groups  in  treatment-emergent  abnormal  results  in  urinalysis  tests.  In  the  long-term 
analysis  set,  no  clinically  meaningful  findings  were  observed  in  treatment-emergent  abnormal 
urinalysis results. 
Vital signs 
Vital sign data were not integrated for analysis of change over time due to the different methods used 
across studies. Based on results of vital sign data from the individual BPH studies, there is no evidence 
of an adverse impact of tadalafil therapy on blood pressure or heart rate. Categorical analysis of blood 
pressure  data  was  performed  on  the  integrated  analysis  set  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the 
occurrence  of  treatment-emergent  hypertension  based  on  objective  criteria.  The  percentages  of 
patients  with  treatment-emergent  diastolic  and  systolic  hypertension  were  numerically  lower  in  the 
tadalafil  5-mg  group  compared  with  placebo  group.  These  results  are  consistent  with  the 
pharmacological property of tadalafil as a mild vasodilator, and do not indicate an increase in the risk 
of  hypertension  in  men  with  BPH-LUTS  receiving  tadalafil.  Studies  LVHJ,  LVHR,  and  LVHS  (tadalafil  5 
mg or placebo co administered with alpha-blocker therapy) included measurement of orthostatic vital 
signs  to  assess  for  orthostatic  hypotension  and  associated  symptoms,  as  patients  with  BPH-LUTS  are 
typically  older  than  those  with  ED  (McVary  2006),  and  thus  potentially  more  susceptible  to 
symptomatic  hypotension  due  to  vasodilation  (Low  et  al.  2008).  In  these  studies  the  percentage  of 
patients  with  at  least  1  treatment-emergent  positive  orthostatic  test  was  similar,  with  no  statistically 
Page 35/56 
 
 
significant difference between the tadalafil 5 mg and placebo groups (p≥.418). No patients in LVHJ or 
LVHR reported a TEAE upon standing and simultaneously met any criteria for orthostatic hypotension. 
In  Study  LVHS,  only  1  patient  in  each  treatment  arm  reported  a  TEAE  upon  standing  and 
simultaneously  met  any  criteria  for  orthostatic  hypotension.  Similar  results  were  observed  when 
analyzed in subgroups defined by age (<65 and >65 years; <75 and ≥75 years). Thus, there was no 
evidence  of  an  adverse  impact  of  tadalafil  therapy  compared  with  placebo  on  orthostatic  vital  signs 
either  overall  or  in  elderly  men  with  BPH-LUTS.  There  also  was  no  evidence  of  an  adverse  impact  of 
tadalafil added to alpha blocker therapy on orthostatic vital signs compared to placebo added to alpha 
blocker therapy.  
Electrocardiograms 
Electrocardiograms were undertaken in the double-blind and open-label periods of Study LVHG and in 
the  pilot  Study  LVHT  conducted  in  Asian  subjects.  No  clinically  adverse  changes  in  ECGs  related  to 
tadalafil  therapy  were  observed.  No  clinically  relevant  effects  on  cardiac  electrophysiology  were 
observed with tadalafil treatment. 
During  the  double-blind  period  of  Study,  there  were  no  statistically  significant  mean  changes  from 
baseline  to  endpoint  in  the  tadalafil  treatment  groups  in  ECG  parameters.  For  the  long-term  analysis 
set  (open-label  extension  period  of  Study  LVHG),  no  clinically  adverse  effects  were  observed  on  ECG 
changes  that  were  associated  with  tadalafil.  Additionally,  in  the  pilot  Study  LVHT  conducted  in  Asian 
subjects, no clinically adverse changes were observed in ECG evaluations (CSR LVHT Section 12.5.2).  
A multi-centre, randomised, placebo-controlled, crossover study was performed to examine the effects 
of  single  oral  doses  of  100-mg  tadalafil  on  ventricular  repolarisation,  as  assessed  by  analysis  of  12-
lead ECG QTc intervals in 90 completing healthy male subjects. Ibutilide was administered as a positive 
control.  The  results  of  this  study  showed  that  tadalafil  100  mg  had  no  clinically  relevant  effect  on 
ventricular repolarisation, as assessed by the QTc interval.  
-- Safety Assessments Related to Bladder Function 
The  safety  of  tadalafil  on  bladder  function  in  men  with  BPH-LUTS  was  assessed  by  measurement  of 
post-void  residual  urine  (PVR)  volume,  uroflowmetry,  and  adverse  events  in  the  integrated  analysis 
set, long-term analysis set. In addition, Study LVHK was a Phase 2 study with the primary objective of 
testing  the  urodynamic  safety  of  tadalafil.  Review  of  PVR,  uroflowmetry,  urinary  retention  adverse 
events,  and  specific  urodynamic  assessments  provide  no  evidence  for  a  clinically  adverse  effect  of 
tadalafil on bladder emptying.  
PVR volumes 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  there  was  no  significant  difference  between  the  tadalafil  5  mg  and 
placebo groups and in mean change from baseline to endpoint in PVR volume (tadalafil 5 mg: 0.4 mL, 
placebo: 0.2 mL). There were no TEAEs of urinary retention reported in the tadalafil group compared 
to 3 urinary retention TEAEs in the placebo group (p=0.085). 
In the long-term analysis set, when evaluated by previous treatment group in the double-blind period, 
all  previous  treatment  groups  (except  tadalafil  20  mg)  showed  small  decreases  in  PVR  volumes  that 
were  not  considered  clinically  adverse.  One  urinary  retention  TEAE  (0.2%)  was  reported  in  the  long-
term analysis set, which was not considered to be treatment-related. 
In  Study  LVID  (tadalafil  5  mg  or  placebo,  with  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  as  an  active  control),  mean 
decreases  were  observed  in  all  treatment  groups;  however,  these  changes  were  not  statistically 
significantly different when comparing either the tadalafil 5-mg group (-4.6 mL) or the tamsulosin 0.4-
mg group (-10.2 mL) to placebo (-1.2 mL). No TEAEs of urinary retention were reported in the tadalafil 
or tamsulosin groups, compared with 1 in the placebo group. 
Page 36/56 
 
 
In Study LVHK, there were small decreases in PVR volume in both treatment groups (tadalafil 20 mg: -
9.1  mL,  placebo:  -1.9  mL)  from  baseline  to  endpoint,  but  these  changes  were  not  statistically 
significant between treatment groups. No urinary retention TEAEs were reported (Table LVHK.12.3). 
Similar  results  were  observed  in  the  other  supportive  studies  (study  LVHS,  Study  LVGC,  proof-of-
concept Study LVGC and in studies of Asian men with BPH-LUTS).  
Uroflowmetry 
Of  the  studies  included  in  the  integrated  analysis  set,  uroflowmetry  data  was  evaluated  by  a  central 
reader in Studies LVHG, LVHR, and LVID. Therefore, an integrated analysis of peak urine flow (Qmax) 
was performed including only these studies. In all studies, uroflowmetry analyses were based only on 
valid assessments with prevoid total bladder volume (assessed by ultrasound) ≥150 to ≤550 mL and 
voided volume ≥125 mL. 
For  the  integrated  studies,  the  mean  change  in  Qmax  from  baseline  to  endpoint  was  statistically 
significant  for  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  (1.8  mL/sec)  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (1.2  mL/sec) 
(p=.041). Numeric increases in mean change in Qmax were observed with tadalafil in each study, but 
was statistically significant compared with placebo only in Study LVID. Also in Study LVID, there was a 
statistically  significant  mean  increase  in  Qmax  in  the  tamsulosin  active  control  group  (2.2  mL/sec, 
p=.014). In each of these studies, numeric increases from baseline to endpoint were observed for both 
Qmean and Vcomp in the tadalafil 5-mg group compared with placebo, none of which were considered 
clinically adverse. 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup analyses were performed only for the integrated analysis set. These subgroups included age 
(≤65 and >65 years of age; <75 and ≥75 years of age), various conditions reported at baseline (ED, 
cardiovascular  disease,  hypertension,  diabetes,  renal  impairment,  hepatic  impairment,  CYP3A4 
inhibitor  use,  prior  alpha-blocker  therapy  use,  and  prior  PDE5  inhibitor  use),  and  TEAEs  possibly 
related to hypotension by concomitant antihypertensive medication use. No new safety concerns with 
tadalafil were identified based upon subgroup analyses for the integrated analysis set.  
 
Intrinsic Factors 
-- Age 
The safety profiles were generally similar between age subgroups (≤65 and >65 years of age; <75 and 
≥75  years  of  age)  in  the  integrated  analysis  set.  No  statistically  significant  or  clinically  meaningful 
differences were observed between treatment groups in the percentages and types of TEAEs (including 
those possibly related to hypotension) across age subgroups. Additionally, no statistically significant or 
clinically  meaningful  differences  were  observed  between  treatment  groups  in  the  percentages  of 
subjects reporting SAEs and discontinuations due to AEs across subgroups. Overall, these data showed 
no evidence of age-related differences in the tolerability of tadalafil.  
  Subjects ≤65 and >65 Years of Age 
Of the 1500 randomised subjects in the integrated analysis set, 615 subjects (41%) were >65 years of 
age.  A  total  of  308  subjects  >65  years  of  age  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg,  with  a  total 
exposure of 68.7 subject-years. Baseline medical history was balanced between the tadalafil 5-mg and 
placebo  groups.  As  expected,  subjects  >65  years  of  age  had  more  baseline  cardiovascular  disorders, 
Page 37/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
primarily  more  ischemic  heart  disease,  cardiac  arrhythmias  and  hypertension,  when  compared  to  all 
subjects in the integrated analysis set. 
The common TEAE profiles were similar between subjects ≤65 and >65 years of age. At the SOC level, 
no significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed. However, at the individual preferred 
term  level,  a  significant  treatment  interaction  was  observed  for  the  uncommon  TEAE  of  abdominal 
discomfort  (HOR  p=.025).  The  MAH  argues  that  this  finding  is  likely  to  be  an  artifact  caused  by  the 
small  number  of  events  reported  and  the  opposing  treatment  group  differences  within  the  subgroups 
and therefore does not appear to indicate a true treatment-by-subgroup interaction.  
Overall, for subjects reporting at least 1 TEAE or any individual TEAEs possibly related to hypotension, 
no significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions or treatment-group differences were observed. 
Overall,  for  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  SAE  or  any  individual  SAEs,  no  significant  treatment-by-
subgroup  interactions  or  treatment-group  differences  were  observed.  In  regards  to  discontinuations 
due to AEs, overall, no significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed. 
  Subjects <75 and ≥75 Years of Age 
Of the 1500 randomised subjects in the integrated analysis set, 177 subjects (11.8%) were ≥75 years 
of  age.  A  total  of  84  subjects  ≥75  years  of  age  have  been  exposed  to  tadalafil  5  mg,  with  a  total 
exposure of 18.6 subject-years. Baseline medical history for subjects ≥75 years was balanced between 
the  tadalafil  5-mg  and  placebo  groups.  As  expected,  subjects  ≥75  years  of  age  had  more  baseline 
cardiovascular disorders, primarily more ischemic heart disease, cardiac arrhythmias and hypertension, 
when compared to all subjects in the integrated analysis set. 
In  regards  to  common  TEAEs  for  subjects  <75  and  ≥75  years  of  age  in  the  integrated  analysis  set, 
overall,  no  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  were  observed.  For  individual  common 
TEAEs,  a  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed  for  diarrhoea  (HOR  p=.027), 
Page 38/56 
 
 
 
 
 
which  was  driven  by  a  higher  percentage  of  subjects  ≥75  years  of  age  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group 
reporting  diarrhoea  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (7.1%  versus  1.1%,  CMH  p=.031)  and  no 
significant  difference  between  the  tadalafil  5-mg  and  placebo  groups  in  subjects  <75  years  of  age 
(0.6%  versus  1.1%,  CMH  p=.375),  but  it  was  not  considered  clinically  meaningful.  There  was  no 
evidence  from  tadalafil  once-a-day  studies  for  the  treatment  of  ED  for  an  interaction  with  age  and 
incidence  of  diarrhoea.  Overall,  regarding  TEAEs  possibly  related  to  hypotension,  no  significant 
treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  or  treatment  group  differences  were  observed.  In  subjects 
receiving  tadalafil  5  mg  compared  with  placebo,  a  numerically  higher  incidence  of  dizziness  was 
observed in subjects ≥75 years of age (4.8% versus 1.1%) compared with subjects <75 years of age 
(0.9% versus 0.8%). These results observed in BPH subjects are similar to those in the tadalafil once-
a-day  submission  for  ED;  in  subjects  receiving  tadalafil  2.5-mg  and  5-mg  once-a  day  dosing  in  ED 
studies, a higher incidence of dizziness was observed in subjects older than 65years of age compared 
with younger subjects (>65 years, 2.3%; ≤65 years, 0.5%). 
Overall,  for  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  SAE  or  any  individual  SAEs,  no  significant  treatment-by-
subgroup interactions or treatment group differences were observed. Two tadalafil subjects ≥75 years 
of age reported SAEs: acute MI and coronary artery disease, both previously described. 
Discontinuations  due  to  AEs  for  subjects  <75  and  ≥75  years  of  age  in  the  integrated  analysis  set, 
overall,  did  not  show  any  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions.  A  significantly  greater 
percentage of subjects <75 years of age in the tadalafil 5-mg group discontinued due to AEs compared 
with  the  placebo  group  (3.3%  versus  1.4%,  CMH  p=.018),  whereas  no  significant  treatment  group 
difference was observed in subjects ≥75 years of age. 
-- Erectile Dysfunction 
In the integrated analysis set, 1159 (77.4%) reported ED at baseline and 338 (22.6%) reported no ED 
at  baseline  (ED  status  was  unavailable  for  3  subjects  in  the  integrated  analysis  set).  No  significant 
Page 39/56 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment-by-subgroup interaction was observed for subjects reporting at least 1 TEAE, and the profile 
of  common  TEAEs  was  generally  similar  between  men  with  or  without  ED  at  baseline.  A  significant 
treatment-by-subgroup interaction was observed for hypertension (HOR p=.021), which was driven by 
a  significantly  greater  percentage  of  subjects  with  ED  reporting  hypertension  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg 
group  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (2.1%  versus  0.5%,  CMH  p=.012)  and  no  treatment  group 
difference  among  subjects  without  ED.  The  MAH  argues  that  this  apparent  increase  in  incidence  of 
hypertension  in  subjects  with  ED  compared  to  those  subjects  without  ED  appears  to  be  a  chance 
finding refuted by objective blood pressure measures, a lack of association between tadalafil treatment 
and  development  of  hypertension  in  prior  studies  of  men  with  ED  and  the  recognised  mechanism  of 
action (MOA) of tadalafil as a mild vasodilator. These data show no evidence of reduced tolerability or 
unique safety issues with tadalafil 5 mg in subjects with BPH-LUTS who also have ED. 
--Cardiovascular Disease 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  no  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  were  observed  for 
subjects  reporting  at  least  1  TEAE  or  any  individual  TEAEs,  and  the  profile  of  common  TEAEs  was 
generally similar between men with or without cardiovascular disease at baseline. These data show no 
evidence  of  reduced  tolerability  or  unique  safety  issues  with  tadalafil  5  mg  in  subjects  with 
cardiovascular disease at baseline. 
-- Hypertension 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  a  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed  for  subjects 
reporting nasopharyngitis (HOR p=.089); the MAH argues that this finding is likely an artifact caused 
by opposing treatment group differences within the subgroups (that is, more TEAEs of nasopharyngitis 
were  reported  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  [3.0%  versus  1.4%]  in  subjects 
with  baseline  hypertension,  and  fewer  TEAEs  of  nasopharyngitis  were  reported  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg 
group than in the placebo group [1.8 % versus 2.8%] in subjects without baseline hypertension) and 
does not appear to indicate a true treatment-by-subgroup interaction. These data show no evidence of 
reduced  tolerability  or  unique  safety  issues  with  tadalafil  5  mg  in  subjects  with  hypertension  at 
baseline. 
-- Diabetes 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  no  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  were  observed  for 
subjects reporting at least 1 TEAE or for any individual TEAEs. These data show no evidence of reduced 
tolerability or unique safety issues with tadalafil 5 mg in subjects with diabetes at baseline. 
-- Renal Impairment 
For the analysis of TEAEs by renal status, degree of renal impairment was defined as normal (CrCl >80 
mL/min),  mild  (CrCl  >50  to  80  mL/min),  moderate  (CrCl  >30  to  50  mL/min),  and  severe  (CrCl  ≤30 
mL/min) at baseline (Visit 3). Subjects with severe renal insufficiency as defined in the individual study 
protocols  were  excluded  from  study  participation.  In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  no  significant 
treatment-by  subgroup  interactions  were  observed  for  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  TEAE  or  for  any 
individual  TEAEs.  These  data  show  no  evidence  of  reduced  tolerability  or  unique  safety  issues  with 
tadalafil 5 mg in subjects with mild or moderate renal impairment at baseline. Consistent with existing 
label  language,  it  is  recommended  that  no  dose  adjustment  is  needed  for  subjects  with  mild  or 
moderate renal impairment. However, in previous clinical pharmacology studies of 5- to 20-mg single 
tadalafil  doses  in  subjects  with  mild  renal  insufficiency  (creatinine  clearance  51  to  80  mL/min), 
moderate insufficiency (creatinine clearance 31 to 50 mL/min), or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on 
dialysis,  exposure  in  subjects  with  renal  insufficiency  was  approximately  double  that  in  healthy 
subjects.  Across  subjects  with  renal  insufficiency,  the  mean  t1/2  was  prolonged  (approximately  50 
Page 40/56 
 
 
 
 
hours)  and  haemodialysis  contributed  negligibly  to  tadalafil  elimination.  As  such,  for  subjects  with 
severe renal impairment, as in the ED population, once-daily tadalafil is not recommended in the BPH 
population. 
--Hepatic Impairment 
Patients with clinical evidence of hepatic impairment were excluded from the BPH clinical studies, and 
once-a-day dosing has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, 
the  current  dosing  recommendation  for  once-a-day  treatment  of  ED  remains  scientifically  appropriate 
for  use  in  the  treatment  of  BPH.  Specifically,  if  tadalafil  is  prescribed  to  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment,  a  careful  individual  benefit/risk  evaluation  should  be  undertaken  by  the  prescribing 
physician. 
  Extrinsic Factors 
-- Prior Use of Alpha-Blocker Therapy 
In  the  integrated  analysis  set,  overall,  a  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed 
for  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  TEAE  (HOR  p=.058),  which  was  driven  by  the  significantly  greater 
percentage of TEAEs reported by subjects who did receive prior alpha-blocker therapy in the tadalafil 
5-mg group compared with the placebo group (35.8% versus 21.5%, respectively; CMH p=.001). For 
individual  TEAEs,  a  significant  treatment-by  subgroup  interaction  was  observed  for  nasopharyngitis 
(HOR  p=.060),  which  the  MAH  argues  that  appears  to  be  an  artefact  caused  by  the  small  number  of 
events reported and opposing treatment-group differences within the subgroups (that is, more TEAEs 
of nasopharyngitis were reported in the tadalafil 5-mg group than in the placebo group [3.9% versus 
1.5%]  in  subjects  who  did  receive  prior  alpha-blocker  therapy,  and  fewer  TEAEs  of  nasopharyngitis 
were  reported  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  [1.6%  versus  2.6%]  in  subjects 
who  did  not  receive  prior  alpha-blocker  therapy)  and  therefore  does  not  appear  to  indicate  a  true 
treatment-by-subgroup  interaction.  The  TEAE  findings  observed  in  subjects  with  prior  alpha-blocker 
use  are  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  tadalafil,  with  no  clinically  important  findings 
relevant to prior alpha blocker use. 
--Adverse  Events  Reported  during  Alpha-Blocker  Washout  Periods  of  the  pivotal  studies  and  study 
LVHK 
Adverse events that occurred in screened subjects who discontinued alpha-blocker therapy during the 
screening/washout  period  were  evaluated  in  order  to  assess  the  likelihood  of  symptomatic  worsening 
and urinary retention during this timeframe. 
In  Study  LVHK,  of  the  24  subjects  requiring  alpha-blocker  washout,  3  subjects  (12.5%)  reported  a 
total of 3 events: ecchymosis, skeletal injury, and 1 urinary event of urethral haemorrhage (this event 
was likely related to the invasive urodynamic procedure conducted at Visit 2).  
In  Study  LVHG,  of  the  100  screened  subjects  requiring  alpha-blocker  washout  during  the 
screening/washout period, 8 subjects (8.0%) reported 14 events, including 1 urinary event of dysuria.  
In Study LVHJ, no procedure-related AEs were reported during the screening/washout. 
 In Study LVHR, a total of 113 subjects who were screened required alpha-blocker washout; 4 of those 
subjects  (3.5%)  reported  5  procedure-related  AEs:  dysuria  and  nocturia  (1  subject),  micturition 
disorder  (1  subject),  residual  urine  (1  subject),  and  urinary  retention  (1  subject).  Of  the  subjects 
reporting procedure-related AEs following alpha-blocker washout, all had discontinued tamsulosin. 
In  Study  LVID,  a  total  of 67  subjects  who  were  screened  required  alpha-blocker  washout;  1  of  those 
subjects  (1.5%)  reported  at  least  1  procedure-related  AE  (pollakiuria);  this  subject  had  discontinued 
tamsulosin on his screening visit date.  
Page 41/56 
 
 
 
--Prior Use of PDE5 Inhibitor Therapy 
Overall,  for  subjects  reporting  at  least  1  TEAE,  no  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was 
observed.  Although  a  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed  for  myalgia  (HOR 
p=.019),  the  MAH  argues  that  this  finding  is  likely  due  to  the  opposing  treatment-group  differences 
within  the  subgroups  and  therefore  does  not  appear  to  indicate  an  actual  treatment  by-subgroup 
interaction. The common TEAEs observed in subjects with prior PDE5 inhibitor use are consistent with 
the  known  safety  profile  of  tadalafil,  with  no  clinically  important  findings  relevant  to  prior  PDE5  use 
identified. 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
The  transition  of  tadalafil  or  its  metabolites  to  placenta  and  milk  was  observed  in  pregnant  and 
lactating rats (previously submitted non-clinical reports). There were no reports of pregnancy in female 
partners of men associated with use of tadalafil in the BPH clinical trials.  
In ED studies, 3 pregnancies were reported in female sexual partners of men who received tadalafil in 
once-a-day  clinical  studies.  Two  of  these  female  partners  gave  birth  to  healthy  babies,  while  no 
information  about  the  outcome  of  the  third  pregnancy  was  made  available  to  the  MAH.  In  studies  of 
patients with pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH), 2 pregnancies were reported. One subject became 
pregnant  while  receiving  placebo,  and  continued  into  extension  Study  LVGX,  where  she  received 
tadalafil  40  mg  per  day  for  2  days  during  the  first  trimester,  then  discontinued  therapy  when  a 
pregnancy  test  was  found  to  be  positive.  She  delivered  a  baby  boy  by  caesarean  section  after  36 
weeks’ gestation. Another subject became pregnant during the study and due to the severity of PAH in 
this subject, a therapeutic abortion was performed without complications. 
As of 15 April 2011, there have been 8 reports of pregnancy from spontaneous reports and literature 
involving the use of tadalafil. In only 1 of these was the patient taking tadalafil. This was a 26-year-old 
woman taking tadalafil 40-mg per day for PAH, starting at 16 weeks of gestation. The estimated due 
date  was  9  October  2010,  with  follow-up  information  received  12  October  2010.  There  were  no 
complications  reported  at  the  time  of  follow-up.  The  other  7  reports  involved  pregnancies  where  the 
male partner was taking tadalafil. In 1 case there was a spontaneous abortion at 5½ weeks’ gestation. 
In  another,  the  infant  died  due  to  a  Bochdaleks  hernia  (diaphragmatic  malformation  resulting  in 
abdominal organs invading the chest, causing lung malformation, often fatal). There were 2 reports of 
live births and 3 with no outcome reported.  
No changes to the pregnancy and lactation section in the current SmPC are proposed. 
Immunological events 
N/A 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Only  concomitant  medications  that  are  likely  to  present  a  PK  interaction  or  those  with  an  interaction 
already described in the SPC are summarized in this AR.  
-- CYP3A4 
Previously  submitted  clinical  pharmacology  studies  evaluated  the  interactions  of  tadalafil  with  other 
drugs, and these studies are applicable to the once-a-day use of tadalafil for the treatment of BPH. The 
recommendations  regarding  CYP3A4  use  and  tadalafil  present  in  the  EU  SPC  for  tadalafil  for  the 
treatment of ED are relevant for CIALIS for the treatment of BPH. Specifically, that caution should be 
exercised  when  prescribing  CIALIS  to  patients  using  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitors  (ritonavir,  saquinavir, 
Page 42/56 
 
 
 
ketoconazole,  itraconazole,  and  erythromycin)  as  increased  tadalafil  exposure  (AUC)  has  been 
observed if the medicines are combined.  
-- Alpha Blockers 
As  previously  mentioned,  studies  were  conducted  with  alpha-adrenergic  receptor-blocking  agents.  In 
studies assessing the effect of co-administration of the alpha blockers tamsulosin (Study LVGN, Study 
LVAY) or alfuzosin (Study PDY5734), tadalafil had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure. In 
studies assessing the effect of co-administration of alpha blocker doxazosin (Study LVFG, Study LVGT, 
and Study LVFT), tadalafil augmented the blood pressure-lowering effect of doxazosin. 
In  Study  LVGT,  a  clinical  pharmacology  study  of  once-daily  tadalafil  co-administered  with  doxazosin 
(previously  submitted  during  procedure  EMEA/H/C/436/X/0026-0027),  the  most  frequently  reported 
drug-related  adverse  events  reported  by  subjects  receiving  tadalafil  and  doxazosin  were  myalgia  and 
back pain. The majority of episodes of myalgia were described as pain in the legs, thighs or calves. 
-- Co-administration of Alpha Blockers in Safety Study LVHS 
Study LVHS assessed the safety of tadalafil once a day for 12 weeks in men with BPH on concomitant 
alpha-blocker therapy. In this study, 58.8% of subjects were over the age of 65, and 24.5% were 75 
years  or  older.  The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  proportion  of  men  with  BPH-LUTS 
experiencing  treatment-emergent  dizziness  when  adding  tadalafil  5  mg  once  daily  to  concomitant 
alpha-blocker  therapy  compared  to  adding  placebo  to  alpha-blocker  therapy.  Similar  proportions  of 
subjects in each treatment arm, all of whom were taking a stable dose of alpha blocker, experienced 
treatment-emergent  dizziness  (tadalafil  7.0%,  placebo  5.7%,  p=.403).  Secondary  analyses  of  TEAEs 
possibly  related  to  hypotension  were  conducted  using  both  a  focused  list  and  an  expanded  list  of 
MedDRA  preferred  terms  in  order  to  assess  the  incidence  of  clinical  AEs  related  to  orthostasis  and 
hypotension.  For  both  the  focused  and  expanded  analyses  of  TEAEs  possibly  related  to  hypotension, 
similar proportions of subjects in each treatment group reported at least 1 TEAE, with no statistically 
significant  differences  between  treatment  groups.  There  was  a  trend  toward  increased  reporting  of 
TEAEs possibly related to hypotension in men on non-selective alpha blockers (i.e. doxazosin).  
In  a  subgroup  analysis  of  TEAEs  possibly  related  to  hypotension  by  age  (≥75  years,  <75  years), 
results  were  similar  between  tadalafil  and  placebo  within  the  younger  subgroup  and  for  tadalafil 
subjects  between  age  subgroups.  However,  a  smaller  proportion  of  placebo  subjects  in  the  elderly 
subgroup reported these TEAEs than in the younger subgroup (5.3% and 10.7%, respectively), leading 
to  a  numerically  greater  proportion  of  elderly  tadalafil  subjects  reporting  events  than  elderly  placebo 
subjects  (12.5%  and  5.3%,  respectively).  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed 
between tadalafil and placebo in the percentage of subjects meeting at least 1 criterion for treatment-
emergent orthostatic hypotension in subgroups of subjects ≥75 years of age. Overall, results of Study 
LVHS safety did not lead to identification of new safety concerns related to concomitant administration 
of tadalafil with alpha-blocker therapy. Results in this population of men with BPH were similar to past 
clinical  pharmacology  studies  of  tadalafil  with  concomitant  alpha-blocker  administration  in  healthy 
subjects,  with  a  trend  toward  increased  haemodynamic  signs and  symptoms in  men  on  non-selective 
alpha  blockers,  most  notably  those  subjects  on  concomitant  doxazosin,  as  described  in  the  existing 
CIALIS  SmPC.  Caution  should  therefore  be  exercised  when  prescribing  tadalafil  to  patients  who  are 
taking  alpha  blockers,  as  simultaneous  administration  may  lead  to  symptomatic  hypotension  in  some 
patients, and the combination of tadalafil and doxazosin is not recommended. 
--Antihypertensive Medications 
No  significant 
treatment-by-subgroup 
interactions  were  observed  between 
the  concomitant 
antihypertensive therapy subgroups. There was no evidence of an increase in TEAEs possibly related to 
Page 43/56 
hypotension  with  tadalafil  treatment  compared  to  placebo  in  subjects  receiving  1  class  or  2  or  more 
classes of antihypertensive agents. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
As previously discussed in the efficacy assessment, the percentage of subjects discontinuing due to an 
AE was significantly greater in the tadalafil 5-mg group compared to the placebo group (3.1% versus 
1.5%,  p=.039).  Headache  was  the  most  frequently  reported  AE  leading  to  discontinuation  in  the 
tadalafil  5-mg  group  (0.7%),  and  was  the  only  event  that  was  reported  by  a  significantly  greater 
percentage of subjects in the tadalafil group compared with placebo (p=.025).  
In the tadalafil 5-mg group of the integrated analysis set, of the 23 AEs leading to discontinuation, 15 
were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  drug:  headache  (5  subjects),  myalgia  (2 
subjects), upper abdominal pain (2 subjects), back pain, muscle spasms, pain in extremity, dyspepsia, 
vision  blurred,  and  acute  MI.  The  acute  MI  was  reported  as  an  SAE  that  resulted  in  death,  as 
previously  mentioned.  In  the  placebo  group,  of  the  11  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation,  8  were 
considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  drug:  anxiety,  asthenia,  dizziness,  eye  pain, 
upper abdominal pain (2 subjects), back pain, and blood creatine phosphokinase increased. 
In  the  long-term  analysis  set,  22  subjects  (5.2%)  discontinued  due  to  AEs.  Eleven  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  treatment:  dyspepsia  (2 
subjects),  visual  impairment,  muscle  tightness,  abdominal  discomfort,  unilateral  deafness,  hot  flush, 
oesophagitis,  hepatic  enzyme  increased  (subject  with  known  Hepatitis),  coronary  artery  disease,  and 
GERD. 
In  Study  LVID  (tadalafil  5  mg  or  placebo,  with  tamsulosin  0.4  mg  as  an  active  control),  5  subjects 
discontinued the study due to AEs: 2 subjects (1.2%) in the placebo group (anxiety and asthenia), 2 
subjects (1.2%) in the tadalafil 5-mg group (pancreatitis and vision blurred), and 1 subject (0.6%) in 
the  tamsulosin  0.4-mg  group  (headache).  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed 
between  either  the  tadalafil  or  tamsulosin  group  compared  with  placebo.  Among  AEs  leading  to 
discontinuation that were considered by the investigator to be related to study treatment, 1 was in the 
tadalalfil 5-mg group (vision blurred), 1 was in the tamsulosin 0.4-mg group (headache), and 2 were 
in the placebo group (anxiety and asthenia). 
In  Study  LVHK,  few  subjects  discontinued  the  study  due  to  AEs.  Two  subjects  (2.0%)  in  the  tadalafil 
20-mg group reported AEs that led to study discontinuation: 1 subject discontinued due to headache, 
which was considered by the investigator to be related to study drug, and 1 subject reported an AE of 
Peyronie’s  disease  3  days  after  randomisation.  In  the  opinion  of  the  investigator,  the  Peyronie’s 
disease  was  a  preexisting  condition  that  was  undiagnosed  prior  to  the  subject’s  study  participation. 
One  subject  (1.0%)  in  the  placebo  group  discontinued  the  study  due  to  MI,  which  resulted  in  death 
(previously mentioned). 
In  Study  LVHS  (tadalafil  5  mg  or  placebo  co-administered  with  alpha-blocker  therapy),  13  subjects 
discontinued  the  study  due  to  AEs:  7  subjects  (4.4%)  in  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group  and  6  subjects 
(3.8%)  in  the  placebo  group.  In  the  tadalafil  5-mg  group,  4  AEs  leading  to  discontinuation  were 
considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  treatment:  headache  (2  subjects),  atrial 
fibrillation, and back pain. In the placebo group, 3 AEs leading to discontinuation were considered by 
the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  treatment  (visual  acuity  reduced,  vision  blurred,  and 
pollakiuria). 
In  the  clinical  pharmacology  analysis  set,  the  Asian  studies  (Studies  LVIA,  LVHB,  and  LVHT,  and  the 
open-label extension period of Study LVIA) and the proof-of-concept Study  LVGC, few AEs leading to 
discontinuation were reported. These events were consistent with the known safety profile of tadalafil. 
Page 44/56 
Post marketing experience 
Cumulatively  through  15  April  2011,  there  have  been  only  4  cases  reporting  off-label  use  for  BPH  or 
prostate disease in the Lilly safety system (LSS) database. The adverse events reported in these cases 
are myalgia (2), drug ineffective (1) and nausea (1).  
1.5.3.  Discussion 
During  the  clinical  development  of  tadalafil  for  BPH  a  total  of  1582  patients  have  been  exposed  to 
tadalafil  in  the  double  blind,  placebo-controlled  BPH  studies.  Overall,  752  of  them  received  tadalafil 
5mg once a day. A total of 357 subjects were exposed to tadalafil 5mg for at least 6 months and 283 
subjects were exposed to it for at least 1 year, for the BPH indication. The overall exposure to tadalafil 
5 mg once-a-day for the proposed BPH indication fulfils ICH guideline recommendation with regard to 
exposure for chronically administered drugs for non-life-threatening conditions.  
In relation to the elderly, 440 subjects >65 years and 117≥75 years of age, were exposed to tadalafil 
5  mg  in  the  clinical  trials.  Of  them,  127 subjects  >65  years  of  age  and  35  subjects  ≥75  years,  were 
exposed for at least 6 months. A total of 104 subjects >65 years and 28 subjects ≥75 years had been 
exposed for at least 1 year. This exposure may be deemed as limited considering that the real use of 
tadalafil in BPH might include a larger proportion of elderly subjects.  
The  common  TEAEs  in  the  BPH  population  of  headache,  back  pain,  dyspepsia,  hypertension,  pain  in 
extremity, diarrhea, dizziness, myalgia and GERD were reported in a greater percentage of patients in 
the tadalafil 5-mg group compared to placebo. The majority of AE were reported as mild or moderate 
in intensity. With the exception of pain in extremity, all were labelled in the current Cialis SPC as ADRs. 
Pain in extremity is not usually related to myalgia. Myalgia is a condition that preferably involves high 
bulk muscles, which are more proximal than distal. The cause may not be muscular per se, but may be 
vascular  or  neurological.  The  MAH  was  asked  to  comment  on  this  newly  reported  AE.  Apart  from  a 
potential  relationship  with  the  known  vasodilatory  activity  proposed  for  myalgia/back  pain,  no  other 
possible  causal  mechanism  has  been  hypothesized.  The  MAH  has  included  the  term  “pain  in  the 
extremity” in the product information (section 4.8).  
Overall, no large differences between data by patient/ by event were observed. No new safety signals 
or safety profiles have been identified. 
Four  subjects  died  in  BPH  studies,  3  deaths  in  tadalafil-treated  subjects  (2  due  to  MI  and  one  to 
subaracnoid  haemorrhage).    A  review  of  individual  subject  data  for  the  3  deaths  in  tadalafil-treated 
subjects indicated all the subjects had preexisting cardiovascular risk factors. However, with respect to 
the case of the subaracnoid haemorrhage the fact that the patient was hypertensive and that this was 
considered  the  risk  factor  for  SAH  is  not  sufficient  to  discard  this  event.  Moreover,  the  risk  of  SAH 
during sexual intercourse attempts is well known. 
The  uroflowmetry  and  post-void  residual  urine  volume  measures  do  not  seem  to  suggest  a  clinically 
adverse effect of tadalafil on bladder function.  
Several specific safety topics have been investigated by the MAH based on the previous experience of 
tadalafil  in  other  therapeutic  indications.  This  investigation  was  focused  on  bleeding  events, 
cardiovascular  events,  ear  and  eye  disorders  as  well  TEAEs  possibly  related  to  hypotension, 
myalgias/back pain, seizures, and transient global amnesia. 
Several  cases  of  bleedings  were  reported.  In  general  the  risk  of  bleeding  events  does  not  seem  to 
increase  with  the  exposure.  Among  them,  haematospermia,  not  previously  described  for  tadalafil.  A 
Page 45/56 
 
type II variation for the safety signal to be listed in the SmPC is currently under evaluation. Few cases 
of hypertension, ear disorders and eye disorders were reported, as expected. Myalgias and back pain 
were reported in 64 subjects (4.3%).  
The frequency of infections in the long term exposure was questioned by the CHMP. The MAH provided 
additional  analyses  with  exposure-adjusted  event  rates  for  “infections  and  infestations”  TEAEs.  These 
new  analyses  adequately  responded  to  the  concern  and  the  evidence  did  not  show  an  increase  in 
infection frequency, when adjusted for tadalafil patient exposure.  
Hypotension was not especially frequent in patients on tadalafil although two cases of dizziness led to 
discontinuation of treatment. The MAH was asked to provide detailed information regarding changes in 
diastolic  and  systolic  blood  pressure.  No  relevant  differences  were  observed  in  the  blood  pressure 
changes  from  baseline  in  the  global  BHP  population.  The  review  of  the  measures  recorded  in  elderly 
patients  as  well  as  the  potentially  related  to  hypotension  adverse  events  shows  some  numerical 
differences with respect to younger subjects. As similar figures are reported for the respective placebo 
groups they cannot be considered of clinical relevance.    
With respect to laboratory data, vital signs and physical findings no relevant differences were observed 
in BPH patients treated with tadalafil with respect to those receiving placebo.  
Attention  was  paid  to  the  safety  profile  of  patients  >  75  years.  Elderly  patients  under  tadalafil 
treatment reported adverse events more often than adult patients. In general there were no important 
differences  between  patients  older  and  younger  than  75  years  in  the  global  safety  profile  except  for 
diarrhoea and dizziness that were more frequent in older patients with respect to patients < 75 years 
(7,1% versus 0,6% and  4,8% versus 0,9% respectively). However, an additional integrated analyses 
using  a  larger  sample  size,  including  additional  subjects  from  other  BHP  studies  and  the  ED  clinical 
program, seemed to suggest a more elevated incidence of AEs as well as discontinuations due to AEs 
was shown in elderly subjects, especially in the very elderly ones. Diarrhoea and dizziness were again 
more  frequent  in  patients  ≥75  years  of  age  than  in  those  <  75  years  and  with  respect  to  placebo. 
Differences were also observed in the occurrence of CV events in tadalafil group between < 65 years 
(2.4%)  and    65  years  BPH  patients  (3.2%  in  65-74  years,  3.6%  in  75-84  year-patients)  and  with 
respect to placebo. Hypertension was the most reported CV event in 65-74 year group (2.4%) but not 
in the oldest one. The MAH stated that this effect is inconsistent with the recognized vasodilator action 
of  tadalafil.  It  is  acknowledged  that  the  database  is  small  to  draw  firm  conclusions.  Nevertheless,  to 
address  the  limited  size  of  the  safety  database  (mainly  the  long-term  one)  in  patients  >65  years  , 
safety  data  in  elderly  subjects  has  been  added  as  missing  information  in  the  RMP  and  specific 
pharmacovigilance activities are identified.  
A comparison of the safety profile between patients with ED and BPH showed a similar pattern for both 
populations, both in frequency and in type of events, except for pain in extremities that were reported 
in  BPH  population.  Discontinuation  due  to  AEs  is  slightly  higher  in  the  BPH  studies  than  in  the  ED 
studies. Although no particular pattern was observed, the fact that BPH subjects were older than those 
in  the  ED  studies  cannot  be  rule  out  as  a  contributing  factor,  thus  indication  worse  tolerance  in  this 
subgroup of patients.  
With  respect  to  the  coadministration  with  other  medicinal  products  relevant  for  this  indication,  the 
pharmacodynamic  interaction  between  tadalafil  and  alpha  blockers  is  already  described  in  the  SmPC. 
Caution is advised when they are coadministered specially for the elderly patients.  
A formal PK/PD characterization of the combination of tadalafil and 5-ARIs has not been performed. In 
the  MAH’s  opinion,  in  theory,  drug-drug  interactions  are  not  expected  to  occur  with  concomitant 
treatment.  In  that  sense,  the  data  provided  from  a  clinical  trial  that  compared  tadalafil  5  mg  plus 
Page 46/56 
finasteride 5 mg to placebo plus finasteride 5 mg in the relief of BPH symptoms seems to indicate that 
the safety profile of the combination treatment is not different from those of the separate drugs.  
1.6.  Risk management plan 
Based on the safety conclusions, the CHMP requested the submission of an updated Risk Management 
Plan (version 5.2) which included a risk minimisation plan within this procedure. 
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan (including the changes related to the application 
presented highlighted) 
Safety issues 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation 
activities 
activities 
Important Identified Risks For All Indications 
Identified Risk: Priapism 
  routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  targeted follow-up 
investigations 
  Specific label text in the SPC 
under Special Warnings and 
Precautions (Section 4.4) 
includes “Patients who 
experience erections lasting 4 
hours or more should be 
instructed to seek immediate 
medical assistance.”   
  Priapism and Prolonged 
erections are listed in the SPC 
as undesirable effects under 
Section 4.8.  
  The package leaflet instructs 
patients to inform the doctor 
immediately if the erection 
lasts continuously for more 
than 4 hours and instructs 
patient to inform their doctor 
before taking CIALIS if they 
have any deformation of your 
penis. 
Identified Risk: 
Hypotension/Increased 
Hypotensive Effect 
  routine pharmacovigilance 
  Specific label text in the SPC 
activities 
  targeted surveillance term 
under Section 4.3 
(Contraindications) indicates 
that CIALIS is contraindicated 
in patients who using any 
form of organic nitrate, have, 
hypotension (<90/50mmHg), 
or uncontrolled hypertension  
  Specific label text in the SPC 
under Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions) 
describing the risk of 
hypotension with tadalafil. 
  Specific label text in the SPC 
Section 4.5 (Interaction with 
other medicinal products and 
other forms of interaction) for 
nitrates, anti-hypertensives, 
Page 47/56 
 
Safety issues 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation 
activities 
activities 
and alcohol.  
  Hypotension has been listed 
as an adverse reaction under 
Section 4.8 (Undesirable 
effects).  
  The package leaflet, instructs 
patient not to take CIALIS if 
they are taking any form of 
organic nitrate or nitric oxide 
donors such as amyl nitrite or 
if they have low blood 
pressure or uncontrolled high 
blood pressure. 
  The package leaflet instructs 
patients to tell the doctor if 
they are taking nitrates, or 
alpha-blockers. 
  The package leaflet under 
Possible Side Effects  (Section 
4) includes low blood 
pressure 
Important Potential Risks 
Important Potential Risks Identified for All Indications 
Potential Risk: 
Nonarteritic Anterior Ischemic 
Optic Neuropathy (NAION) 
  routine pharmacovigilance 
  Specific label text in the SPC 
activities 
  targeted follow-up 
investigations 
  Observational case crossover 
study (Study LVHQ) (per 
regulatory request from FDA) 
under Section 4.3 
(Contraindications) indicates 
that CIALIS is contraindicated 
in patients who have loss of 
vision in one eye because of 
NAION  
  Specific label text in the SPC 
under Special Warnings and 
Precautions (Section 4.4) 
includes “Visual defects and 
cases of NAION have been 
reported in connection with 
the intake of CIALIS and 
other PDE5 inhibitors. The 
patient should be advised 
that in case of sudden visual 
defect he should stop taking 
CIALIS and consult a 
physician immediately.”  
  NAION has been listed in the 
SPC as an adverse reaction 
under Section 
4.8(Undesirable effects).  
  The package leaflet, instructs 
patient not to take CIALIS if 
they have ever had loss of 
vision because of NAION 
Page 48/56 
Safety issues 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
Agreed risk minimisation 
activities 
activities 
Potential Risk:  
Sudden Hearing Loss 
  routine pharmacovigilance 
  Sudden hearing loss has been 
  The package leaflet informs 
patients about NAION   
activities 
  targeted follow-up 
investigations 
listed in the SPC as an 
adverse reaction under 
Section 4.8(Undesirable 
effects)   
  The package leaflet includes 
this risk of sudden hearing 
loss. 
Important Missing Information 
Important Missing Information Identified for Once-a-Day ED and BPH 
Important Missing Information: 
Characterization of adverse 
events in elderly patients (≥65 
years) 
Routine surveillance and 
targeted follow up:  For ED and 
BPH indications only: 
o  Comparative analysis of 
  Not applicable  
spontaneous ADR 
reports by SOC with 
once-a-day dosing data 
according to patient 
age:  elderly (≥65 
years) and patients <65 
years to be completed 
annually in the PSUR 
that falls on the IBD. 
o  Clinical trials: A 
cumulative comparison 
of adverse events 
reported in the elderly 
(≥65 years) and 
patients <65 years from 
completed placebo-
controlled tadalafil 
studies using once-a-day 
dosing, to be completed 
annually in the PSUR 
that falls on the IBD. 
o  Review cases of 
hypotension in the very 
elderly (≥75 years) to 
be completed annually in 
the PSUR that falls on 
the IBD. 
No new pharmacovigilance activities in addition to those already being performed were needed to 
monitor the safety of the product. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Page 49/56 
 
1.7.  Changes to the Product Information 
During the procedure, the CHMP approved the following amendments to the Product Information: 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
In order for tadalafil to be effective for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, sexual stimulation is 
required.  
Treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult males. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Erectile dysfunction in adult men 
…. 
Benign prostatic hyperplasia in adult men 
The recommended dose is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day with or without food. 
For adult men being treated for both benign prostatic hyperplasia and erectile dysfunction the 
recommended dose is also 5 mg taken at approximately the same time every day. Patients who are 
unable to tolerate tadalafil 5 mg for the treatment of  benign prostatic hyperplasia should consider an 
alternative therapy as the efficacy of tadalafil 2.5mg for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia 
has not been demonstrated. 
Special populations  
Elderly men 
Dose adjustments are not required in elderly patients. 
Men with renal impairment 
Dose adjustments are not required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. For patients 
with severe renal impairment 10 mg is the maximum recommended dose for on-demand treatment.  
Once-a-day dosing of 2.5 or 5 mg tadalafil both for the treatment of erectile dysfunction or benign 
prostatic hyperplasia is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. (see sections 4. 4 
and 5.2). 
Men with hepatic impairment 
For the treatment of erectile dysfunction using on-demand CIALIS the recommended dose of CIALIS is 
10 mg taken prior to anticipated sexual activity and with or without food. There is limited clinical data 
on the safety of CIALIS in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C); if prescribed, 
a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation should be undertaken by the prescribing physician. There 
are no available data about the administration of doses higher than 10 mg of tadalafil to patients with 
hepatic impairment.  
Once-a-day dosing of CIALIS both for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic 
hyperplasia has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment; therefore, if prescribed, a 
careful individual benefit/risk evaluation should be undertaken by the prescribing physician. (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Before treatment with CIALIS  
A medical history and physical examination should be undertaken to diagnose erectile dysfunction or 
benign prostatic hyperplasia and determine potential underlying causes, before pharmacological 
treatment is considered. 
…. 
Page 50/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to initiating treatment with tadalafil for benign prostatic hyperplasia patients should be examined 
to rule out the presence of carcinoma of the prostate and carefully assessed for cardiovascular 
conditions (see section 4.3). 
… 
Renal and hepatic impairment  
… 
There are limited clinical data on the safety of single-dose administration of CIALIS in patients with 
severe hepatic insufficiency (Child-Pugh Class C). Once-a-day administration either for the treatment 
of erectile dysfunction or benign prostatic hyperplasia has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic 
insufficiency. If CIALIS is prescribed, a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation should be undertaken 
by the prescribing physician. 
4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
5- alpha reductase inhibitors 
In a clinical trial that compared tadalafil 5 mg coadministered with finasteride 5 mg to placebo plus 
finasteride 5 mg in the relief of BPH symptoms, no new adverse reactions were identified. However, as 
a formal drug-drug interaction study evaluating the effects of tadalafil and 5-alpha reductase inhibitors 
(5-ARIs) has not been performed, caution should be exercised when tadalafil is co-administered with 
5-ARIs. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
…. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients taking CIALIS for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction or benign prostatic hyperplasia were headache, dyspepsia, back pain and myalgia, in which 
the incidences increase with increasing dose of CIALIS.  The adverse reactions reported were transient, 
and generally mild or moderate. The majority of headaches reported with CIALIS once-a-day dosing 
are experienced within the first 10 to 30 days of starting treatment. 
…. 
The  table  below  lists  the  adverse  reactions  observed  from  spontaneous  reporting  and  in  placebo-
controlled clinical trials (comprising a total of 7116 patients on CIALIS and 3718 patients on placebo) 
for  on-demand  and  once-a-day  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction  and  the  once-a-day  treatment  of 
benign prostatic hyperplasia. 
… 
Very common  
Common  
Uncommon  
Rare  
Immune system disorders 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Angioedema3 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache  
Dizziness 
Eye disorders 
Stroke1 (including haemorrhagic events), 
Syncope, Transient ischaemic attacks1, 
Migraine3, Seizures, 
Transient amnesia 
Blurred vision, 
Sensations 
described as eye 
pain 
Visual field defect, Swelling of eyelids, 
Conjunctival hyperaemia, Non-arteritic 
anterior ischemic optic neuropathy 
(NAION) 3, Retinal vascular occlusion3 
Page 51/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders1 
Vascular disorders 
Flushing 
Sudden hearing loss2 
Tachycardia, 
Palpitations 
Myocardial infarction, Unstable angina 
pectoris3, Ventricular arrhythmia3 
Hypotension4, 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Nasal congestion  Dyspnoea, 
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Abdominal pain 
Dyspepsia, 
Gastro-
oesophageal 
reflux  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash, 
Hyperhydrosis 
(sweating) 
Urticaria,  
Stevens-Johnson syndrome3, 
Exfoliative dermatitis3, 
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders 
Back pain, 
Myalgia, Pain in 
extremity 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Chest pain1 
Facial oedema3, Sudden cardiac death1, 3  
(1) Most of the patients had pre-existing cardiovascular risk factors (see section 4.4). 
(2) Sudden decrease or loss of hearing has been reported in a small number of postmarketing and 
clinical trial cases with the use of all PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil. 
(3) Postmarketing surveillance reported adverse reactions not observed in placebo-controlled clinical 
trials. 
Prolonged erections, Priapism3 
Other special populations 
Data in patients over 65 years of age receiving tadalafil in clinical trials, either for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction or the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, are limited. In clinical trials with 
tadalafil 5mg taken once a day for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, dizziness and 
diarrhoea were reported more frequently in patients over 75 years of age.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Mechanism of action 
… 
 Tadalafil has no effect in the treatment of erectile dysfunction in the absence of sexual stimulation. 
The effect of PDE5 inhibition on cGMP concentration in the corpus cavernosum is also observed in the 
smooth muscle of the prostate, the bladder and their vascular supply. The resulting vascular relaxation 
increases blood perfusion which may be the mechanism by which symptoms of benign prostatic 
hyperplasia are reduced. These vascular effects may be complemented by inhibition of bladder afferent 
nerve activity and smooth muscle relaxation of the prostate and bladder. 
… 
Erectile dysfunction 
Page 52/56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
For CIALIS on demand, three clinical studies were conducted in 1054 patients in an at-home setting to 
define the period of responsiveness. Tadalafil demonstrated statistically significant improvement in 
erectile function and the ability to have successful sexual intercourse up to 36 hours following dosing, 
as well as patients’ ability to attain and maintain erections for successful intercourse compared to 
placebo as early as 16 minutes following dosing.  
In a 12-week study performed in 186 patients (142 tadalafil, 44 placebo) with erectile dysfunction 
secondary to spinal cord injury, tadalafil significantly improved the erectile function leading to a mean 
per-subject proportion of successful attempts in patients treated with tadalafil 10 or 20 mg (flexible-
dose, on demand) of 48% as compared to 17% with placebo. 
For once-a-day evaluation of tadalafil at doses of 2.5, 5, and 10 mg 3 clinical studies were initially 
conducted involving 853 patients of various ages (range 21-82 years) and ethnicities, with erectile 
dysfunction of various severities (mild, moderate, severe) and etiologies.  
…. 
Benign prostatic hyperplasia 
CIALIS was studied in 4 clinical studies of 12 weeks duration enrolling over 1500 patients with signs 
and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia.  The improvement in the total international prostate 
symptom score with CIALIS 5mg in the four studies were -4.8, -5.6, -6.1 and -6.3 compared to -2.2, -
3.6, -3.8 and -4.2 with placebo. The improvements in total international prostate symptom score 
occurred as early as 1 week.  In one of the studies, which also included tamsulosin 0.4 mg as an active 
comparator, the improvement total international prostate symptom score with CIALIS 5mg, tamsulosin 
and placebo were -6.3, -5.7 and -4.2 respectively. 
One of these studies assessed improvements in erectile dysfunction and signs and symptoms of benign 
prostatic hyperplasia in patients with both conditions. The improvements in the erectile function 
domain of the international index of erectile function and the total international prostate symptom 
score in this study were 6.5 and -6.1 with CIALIS 5 mg compared to 1.8 and -3.8 with placebo, 
respectively.  The mean per-subject proportion of successful sexual intercourse attempts was 71.9% 
with CIALIS 5 mg compared to 48.3% with placebo.  
The maintenance of the effect was evaluated in an open-label extension to one of the studies, which 
showed that the improvement in total international prostate symptom score seen at 12 weeks was 
maintained for up to 1 additional year of treatment with CIALIS 5mg.  
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
Tadalafil  is  a  selective,  reversible  inhibitor  of  cyclic  guanosine  monophosphate  (cGMP)  -  specific 
phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) in adult men.  
In  support  of  this  variation  the  MAH  has  provided  four  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
12-week, parallel-design, multinational studies to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tadalafil once-a-
day  dosing  in  men  with  signs  and  symptoms  of  BPH.  Three  of  those  studies  were  performed  in  the 
general BHP population and one included subjects with both BHP and ED. Doses of 2,5mg, 5mg, 10 mg 
and  20  mg  were  tested  in  the  treatment  of  BHP  compared  to  placebo.  One  trial  (Study  LVID)  also 
included tamsulosin 0,4mg once a day as an active control. The population of subjects participating in 
the pivotal trials seems mostly adequate and representative for patients with BPH.  
Efficacy results of the general population studies showed a statistically significant improvement for the 
primary endpoint (IPSS) in patients treated with tadalafil compared to placebo. Across the studies, the 
Page 53/56 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
results  were  mostly  consistent.  The  study  population  did  have  different  absolute  improvement  values 
depending  on  whether  they  were  <  20  IPSS  vs.  >=  20  IPSS  values  at  baseline.  On  average,  mild-
moderate  patients  improved  2  points  while  severe  patients  improved  6  points.  Overall  the  responder 
rates  of  the  treatment  effect  were  comparable  (15%)  across  trials.  The  %  improvement  in  the 
treatment arms were >25% and was comparable to other treatments. 
A positive effect was also observed in the secondary efficacy outcomes of storage, voiding and most of 
subjective  measures  of  impact  in  daily  life.  Nocturia  was  the  less  sensitive  symptom  to  the  tadalafil 
effect. This may negatively affect the quality of life of these patients.  
Roughly,  the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  seems  to  be  similar  to  that  observed  for  tamsulosin  when  both 
medicinal  products  (although  without  a  statistically  formal  comparison)  were  compared.  No  data  is 
available  comparing  the  efficacy  of  tadalafil  with  5-alpha  reductase  inhibitors  in  these  patients  and 
limited  efficacy/safety  data  regarding  the  potential  use  of  tadalafil  in  combination  with  5-alpha 
reductase inhibitors, therefore the following wording has been included in the SmPC under section 4.5; 
caution  should  therefore  be  exercised  when  tadalafil  is  co-administered  with  5-alpha  reductase 
inhibitors.  
The  severity  of  the  condition  or  the  previous  treatment,  do  not  seem  to  systematically  influence  the 
response.  For  the  very  elderly  patients  (mainly  those  >  75  years)  only  limited  clinical  data  has  been 
obtained  as  results  from  limited  number  of  subjects  have  been  gathered  this  has  hampered  to  reach 
sound conclusions for the very elderly, but yet no reason to believe there is no benefit.     
The  maintenance  of  the  effect  has  only  been  evaluated  during  the  open  label  extension  periods  in  a 
study  lasting  52  weeks.  Despite  the  inherent  limitations  of  these  types  of  studies,  the  data  suggest 
that patients continuing on treatment during the open label period did not have a loss of efficacy.    
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
There are no new uncertainties in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
The  common  TEAEs  reported  in  the  BPH  population  were  headache,  back  pain,  dyspepsia, 
hypertension,  pain  in  extremity,  diarrhoea,  dizziness,  myalgia  and  gastroesophagea  reflux  disease 
were  reported.  In  general  the  safety  profile  can  be  considered  as  comparable  to  that  one  already 
described  for  the  other  approved  indications.  With  the  exception  of  pain  in  the  extremities,  all  were 
already labelled in the current Cialis SPC.  Pain in the extremity is now included in section 4.8.  
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Data show that 32,1% of patients > 75 years versus 26,8% <75 years had at  least one TAE. Although 
in general there were no important differences diarrhoea and dizziness were more frequent in older 
patients (7,1% versus 0,4% and 4,8% versus 0,9% respectively) than in adults. Acknowledging that 
the size of the sample is low, given that these patients constitute a relevant target population for the 
claimed indication the need to generate more data in this population has been added as missing 
Page 54/56 
 
 
 
 
information in the RMP and specific pharmacovigilance activities are identified. These include a 
comparative analysis of spontaneous ADR reports by SOC with once-a-day dosing data according to 
patient age:  elderly (≥65 years) and patients <65 years to be completed annually in the PSUR that 
falls on the IBD; a cumulative comparison of adverse events reported in the elderly (≥65 years) and 
patients <65 years from completed placebo-controlled tadalafil studies using once-a-day dosing, to be 
completed annually in the PSUR that falls on the IBD; and a review cases of hypotension in the very 
elderly (≥75 years) to be completed annually in the PSUR that falls on the IBD. 
Benefit-risk balance 
In summary, data provided show that tadalafil 5 mg given once daily is efficacious in the treatment of 
the  signs  and  symptoms  of  benign  prostatic  hyperplasia  in  adult  males,  with  or  without  erectile 
dysfunction.  Safety  does  not  seem  to  be  significantly  different  from  the  already  known  safety  profile 
except for pain in extremities that is now reported in the BPH population.  
Based on the submitted data, the risk/benefit balance for Cialis for the signs and symptoms of benign 
prostatic hyperplasia in adult males, with or without erectile dysfunction is positive.  
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Addition of a new indication "Treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia in 
adult males including those with erectile dysfunction" for the 5 mg formulation. Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 
4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC and the package leaflet have been updated accordingly. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Update of Summary of Product Characteristics, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed  in  version  1  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
Page 55/56 
 
 
 
  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
PSUR cycle for the product will follow a yearly cycle until otherwise agreed by the CHMP.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Page 56/56 
