24 September 2015 
EMA/802052/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
CIAMBRA 
International non-proprietary name: pemetrexed 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003788/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 14 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 15 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.2. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16 
2.3.4. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects ................................................ 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 17 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 17 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 18 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 18 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 18 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 18 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 18 
2.6. PSUR submission ................................................................................................ 20 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 21 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 21 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 21 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 21 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 22 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 2/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
API 
Active pharmaceutical ingredient 
ASMF    
Active Substance Master File = DMF 
BSA 
Body Surface Area  
CHMP 
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
DMF 
DSC 
EC  
EMA 
EU  
GC  
GI 
Drug master File 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
European Commission 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
Gas chromatography 
Gastrointestinal 
HDPE    
High density polyethylene 
HPLC(-DAD)  High performance liquid chromatography (-diode array detector) 
ICH  
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration  
of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
ICP-OES 
Inductively coupled plasma –optical emission spectrometry 
IPC 
IR 
KF  
In process Control 
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
LDPE 
Low density polyethylene 
LoD 
LoQ 
MAA 
NfG 
NIR 
NMR 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantification 
Marketing authorisation application 
Note for Guidance 
Near infrared spectroscopy 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Ph. Eur.  
European pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee 
Quality target product profile 
Relative humidity 
Risk Management Plan 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
PRAC 
QTPP 
RH  
RMP 
SJS 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 3/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
TEN 
TGA 
USP 
UV  
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Ultraviolet 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 4/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. submitted on 30 September 2014 an 
application for Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for CIAMBRA, through 
the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally 
authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 
30 May 2013. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
CIAMBRA in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
CIAMBRA in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
CIAMBRA is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced ormetastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy.  
CIAMBRA is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. There 
is no requirement for bioequivalence testing according to (cf.CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev. 1). 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta 100 mg, 500 mg, powder for concentrate 
for solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Date of authorisation:  20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 5/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Alimta 100 mg, 500 mg, powder for concentrate 
for solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Date of authorisation:  20-09-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/290/001-002 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Scientific advice  
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 21 February 2013. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to quality aspects of the dossier.  
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 6/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Juris Pokrotnieks 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 30 September 2014.  
The procedure started on 29 October 2014. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 January 
2015.   
PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 12 February 2015. 
During the meeting on 26 February 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 May 
2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 June 2015.  
 PRAC RMP advice and assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 9 July 2015. 
During the CHMP meeting on 23 July 2015, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
24 August 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 1 September 2015. 
PRAC assessment overview adopted by PRAC on 10 September 2015. 
The Rapporteur circulated the updated Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 16 September 2015. 
• 
During the meeting on 24 September 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to CIAMBRA. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion, Ciambra 100 mg or 500 mg Powder for Concentrate for Solution for Infusion which has the 
same active substance in comparable amounts to the centrally approved reference medicinal product 
Alimta (EU/1/04/290/001-002). After reconstitution, each vial contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 7/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The claimed indication for Ciambra is: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
As monotherapy or in combination with cisplatin, the recommended dose of pemetrexed is 500 mg/m2 
of body surface area (BSA) administered as an intravenous infusion over 10 minutes on the first day of 
each 21-day cycle. 
Ciambra must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to use. After reconstitution, each strength of 
the proposed product contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
About the product 
Pemetrexed is a multi-targeted anti-cancer antifolate agent that exerts its action by disrupting crucial 
folate-dependent metabolic processes essential for cell replication. 
Mode of action 
In vitro studies have shown that pemetrexed behaves as a multitargeted antifolate by inhibiting 
thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and glycinamide ribonucleotide 
formyltransferase (GARFT), which are key folate-dependent enzymes for the de novo biosynthesis of 
thymidine and purine nucleotides. Pemetrexed is transported into cells by both the reduced folate 
carrier and membrane folate binding protein transport systems. Once in the cell, pemetrexed is rapidly 
and efficiently converted to polyglutamate forms by the enzyme folylpolyglutamate synthetase.  
The polyglutamate forms are retained in cells and are even more potent inhibitors of TS and GARFT. 
Polyglutamation is a time- and concentration-dependent process that occurs in tumour cells and, to a 
lesser extent, in normal tissues. Polyglutamated metabolites have an increased intracellular half-life 
resulting in prolonged drug action in malignant cells. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100 
mg/vial or 500 mg/vial of pemetrexed (as disodium salt) as active substance. 
Other ingredients are: mannitol (E421) hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide, as described in section 
6.1 of the SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 8/23 
 
 
 
 
Ciambra powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is available in Type I glass vial with type I 
chlorobutyl rubber stopper and an aluminium seal with flip off cap, vial is  covered with a shrink-
wrapped plastic sleeve, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
The chemical name of the active substance pemetrexed disodium (hemipentahydrate) is L-Glutamic 
acid, N-[4-[2-(2-amino-4,7-dihydro-4-oxo-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-5-yl)ethyl]benzoyl]-disodium 
salt, corresponding to the molecular formula C20H19N5Na2O6•2.5H2O and has a relative molecular 
mass 516.41 g/mol. The active substance has the following structure: 
H
N
O
H2N
N
HN
O
H
COONa
N
H
.
2.5 H2O
COONa
The structure of the active substance has been confirmed by elemental analysis, UV, IR, 1H- and 13C-
NMR, UV, Mass Spectrometry and X-ray powder diffraction all of which support the chemical structure. 
It appears as a white to almost-white, hygroscopic crystalline powder. It is freely soluble in water, 
sodium hydroxide (1M); sparingly soluble in ethanol:water mixture (1:1), methanol; very slightly 
soluble in acetone, ethanol and 2-propanol. 
Pemetrexed disodium contains a single chiral centre at carbon-4 with the absolute S configuration. The 
stereoisomeric purity of the active ingredient depends on the purity of the starting material involved in 
the synthesis and on the stereoselectivity of the synthetic steps to give pemetrexed disodium 
hemipentahydrate. Enantiomeric purity is tested in the active substance by specific chiral HPLC. 
Pemetrexed disodium is known to exist in two crystalline hydrate forms, a 2.5 mole hydrate 
(hemipentahydrate) form and a 7 mole hydrate (heptahydrate) form. The different polymorphs can be 
differentiated by four analytical techniques: infrared spectroscopy (IR), thermogravimetric analysis 
(TGA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and X-ray diffraction. All batches of pemetrexed 
disodium produced by active substance manufacturer contain exclusively hemipentahydrate. It has 
been demonstrated that validation batches manufactured by the proposed synthetic route described in 
ASMF contain exclusively the hemipentahydrate form. In addition evidence has been provided that the 
polymorphic form of active substance has not been changed during storage time. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls  
Pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate is synthesized in a six-step process from four well-defined 
starting materials with acceptable specifications. Following a risk assessment no critical steps have 
been identified. Reprocessing and reworking has been described in sufficient detail.  Adequate in-
process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline 
on chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were characterised and are well 
discussed with regards to their origin and fate.  
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 9/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance is packaged in nitrogen atmosphere in four low-density polyethylene (LDPE) 
bags, which are placed into thermo-sealed aluminium bag. This latter is placed into a HDPE drum, 
which is stored in a metal drum. The primary packaging material conforms to the requirements of the 
relevant European Directives and the Ph.Eur. monograph 3.1.3. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests and limits for: appearance (visual), appearance 
(colour and clarity) of solution (Ph. Eur.), identity (Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), water content (Ph. Eur), 
assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), enantiomeric purity (chiral HPLC), residual solvents (GC), 
palladium content (ICP-OES), microbial limits (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The specifications of the active substance are [PB1]based on Ph.Eur. monograph for Pemetrexed 
Disodium Heptahydrate. The principle is acceptable because the only difference is in the hydration 
degree. The omission of the parameter “Heavy metals” in the specification of active substance has 
been justified;  Potential genotoxic impurities are controlled in final active substance in accordance 
with the relevant guidelines.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information on the 
reference standards has been provided. 
Batch analysis results for three commercial scale batches manufactured by the proposed manufacturer 
and three pilot scale batches by a different manufacturer were presented. The results comply with the 
proposed specification. 
Stability 
Stability data on three pilot batches (manufactured by a different manufacturer) and on three 
commercial scale batches (by the proposed manufacturer) were presented.  The commercial scale 
batches were packaged in packaging intended for marketing while the pilot batches without the 
external metal drum, was not used for these studies since the worst case was considered. Stability 
results for the pilot batches were provided for six months under accelerated (40°C/75% RH), for up to 
12 months under intermediate condition at 30°C/65% RH and up to 24 months at long term condition 
25°C/60% RH. For the commercial batches stability results were provided up to 6 months at both 
accelerated (40°C/75% RH) and long term conditions (25°C/60% RH and 30°C/75% RH). Stability 
studies were conducted according to the ICH guidelines. 
The  following  parameters  were  tested:  appearance,  water  content,  related  substances  (by  HPLC), 
assay (by HPLC), enantiomeric purity, microbiology. Analytical procedures used in stability studies are 
the same as described for release which were shown to be stability indicating.  
Apart  from  some  out  of  specification  results  due  to  wrong  sampling/packaging  procedure  of  the 
stability samples, no significant change in any of the tested parameters was observed over the time-
points evaluated at long-term or accelerated conditions.  
In addition a fourth pilot batch was stored at 25°C/60%RH and refrigerated conditions (2 – 8 °C/ 
ambient air atmosphere) were performed to investigate the behaviour of pemetrexed disodium 
hemipentahydrate without inert atmosphere. The active substance was packed in 2 LDPE bags at air, 
placed into HDPE container. The stability results up to 1 month at refrigerated conditions and up to 
15 days at 25°C/60%RH are compliant with the specification. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 10/23 
 
 
 
 
Forced  degradation  studies  were  performed  pilot  batch  to  identify  the  main  degradation  compounds. 
The effect of pH, heat and hydrogen peroxide on solution of active substance was studied and effect of 
light (photostability), pH, heat and oxidation on solid state of active substance was studied. Based on 
the results pemetrexed disodium hemipentahydrate in solid state is stable at high temperature under 
nitrogen atmosphere until 6 days. When stored under not controlled atmosphere it is stable for 3 days 
at  60  °C  and  for  24  h  at 70  °C.  The  photostability study  as  per  ICH,  on  solid  state  demonstrated  no 
significant  degradation  in  the  samples.  The  active  substance  in  solution  is  stable  in  water  solution 
(pH 7.5-8.4), while significant degradation is observed at high pH. Studies show that oxidation is likely 
mechanism of degradation of active substance. 
In conclusion, the proposed re-test period of 2 years under inert atmosphere (nitrogen) and under 
30 °C when the active substance is stored in the proposed packaging is adequately supported by the 
stability data provided and is acceptable. Compatibility study with primary packaging materials has 
been provided.   
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The objective of pharmaceutical development was to develop a product generic to Alimta.  The Quality 
Target Product Profile (QTPP) has been described as a sterile lyophilised powder with appropriate 
reconstitution time, with specified assay and impurities content and compliant to Ph. Eur. 
requirements. 
Ciambra powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is presented in two strengths: 100 mg/vial 
and 500 mg/vial. The product is a sterile lyophilised powder that must be reconstituted and then 
diluted with a suitable intravenous solution prior to administration. Sodium chloride solution for 
injection (0.9%) is proposed to be used for reconstitution of the powder and preparation of the final 
solution for infusion. There are no accompanying reconstitution diluent(s) with this product. Each 100 
mg vial and 500 mg vial are reconstituted respectively with 4.2 ml or 20 ml of commercially available 
0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, without preservatives. The reconstituted solution contains 25 mg/ml 
of pemetrexed. The required amount of the reconstituted pemetrexed solution is further diluted to 100 
ml in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection prior to intravenous infusion. The reconstitution instructions are 
identical to those of the reference product.  
A comprehensive comparison between the reference product batches of Alimta 100 mg and 500 mg 
and industrial scale batches of generic Ciambra 100 mg and 500 mg produced at the proposed 
manufacturing site has been conducted considering their qualitative and quantitative compositions, 
container closure characterisation, physico-chemical properties and head space analysis. Comparative 
analytical data of three batches of the proposed (generic) product and three batches of the reference 
product Alimta for each strength to confirm the equivalence were presented. Ciambra can be 
considered comparable with the reference product regarding chemical-physical parameters like assay, 
impurities, pH, osmolality, appearance, reconstitution time and in-use stability studies. The same 
pharmaceutical form has been developed as that of the reference product. The same active substance 
salt as the reference product is used.  
The excipients used in Ciambra 100 mg and 500 mg are the same ones used in the composition of 
reference product Alimta and are in compliance with both European Pharmacopeia (Ph. Eur.) and USP. 
No specific compatibility studies are performed but since the qualitative composition of Ciambra is the 
same as the reference product, this was found acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 11/23 
 
 
 
 
Filling of vials was studied to determine the required overfill required to enable the targeted 
extractable volume from the vial after reconstitution using the same reconstitution procedure as for 
reference product Alimta. Based on the results appropriate overfill has been determined.  
Development  of  proposed  lyophilisation  cycle  to  be  used  for  production  of  Ciambra  100  mg  and  500 
mg  lyophilised  powders  has  been  developed  in  a  development  site,  scaled  up  to  pilot  batches  in  a 
second manufacturer (pilot site) and scaled-up to the commercial manufacturing scale at the proposed 
site. 
The preparation of the bulk solution was investigated in order to optimise the process.  
Main  development  work  included  determination  of  the  critical  conditions  and  parameters  during 
lyophilisation  process.  Further  optimisation  work  was  done  to  establish  the  conditions  during 
sublimation  in  order  to  keep  critical  quality  attributes  of  drug  product,  within  specified  acceptance 
criteria. 
In addition a design of experiment study on the freeze drying cycle was conducted on 500 mg strength 
for  determining  the  relationship  between  factors  affecting  a  process  and  the  output  of  process.  It  is 
concluded  that  the  currently  validated  process  parameters  ensure  consistent  quality  of  finished 
product. Proven acceptable ranges have been set but no design space is claimed. 
Scaling up from the laboratory scale to the pilot-scale and production scale is described and analytical 
results of finished product compared. All drug product batches produced at the pilot site and the 
propose site were lyophilised applying the same cycles. It was concluded that product manufactured at 
different sites during development showed comparable quality. 
The  sterilisation  method  by  aseptic  filtration  was  selected  after  consideration  of  the  requirements  of 
the guideline CPMP/QWP/054/98 – “Decision trees for the selection of sterilization methods” (Annex to 
Note  for  Guidance  on  Development  Pharmaceutics).  The  suitability  of  the  filter  type  and  the 
parameters for the filtration of the bulk solution was demonstrated. 
The product is packaged in clear, type I glass vials, rubber stopper and aluminium flip-off cap. The vial 
is  covered  with  a  shrink  wrapped  plastic  sleeve.  Compatibility  of  the  stopper  to  the  reconstituted 
solution  has  been  tested  on  inverted  vials  of  drug  product.  The  study  report  has  been  provided  and 
results  represent  a  worst-case  scenario  exposure  and  they  are  not  considered  to  raise  any  concern 
regarding genotoxicity or carcinogenicity in humans. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  main  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  are  preparation  of  bulk  solution,  sterile  filtration  of  the 
bulk solution, aseptic filling of vials, lyophilisation and closing of the vials. Water for injections is used 
as  processing  solvent  during  the  manufacturing  process  and  is  evaporated  during  freeze-drying  step 
and is not part of the final formula. Nitrogen is used as inert gas for solution preparation, filtration and 
closing  of  vials.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  sterilisation  of  the  primary  packaging  material 
has been presented. 
Critical steps and process parameters that are considered critical for the quality attributes of the 
product were evaluated by risk assessment performed during process validation at the proposed site. 
The following process steps and respective process control parameters are defined as critical: 
preparation of the bulk solution, aseptic filling of vials, lyophilisation and closing of vials.  Adequate in-
process controls re in place for this type of manufacturing process.  
In accordance with Annex II to the guideline on process validation the aseptic manufacturing process 
by  sterile  filtration  in  combination  with  a  lyophilisation  process  is  considered  a  non-standard 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 12/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manufacturing  process.  Process  validation  has  been  performed  on  three  consecutive  production  scale 
batches  for  both 10  ml  (100 mg  strength)  and  50  ml  (500  mg  strength)  vials.  Media  fill  validation  is 
applied  by  the  proposed  manufacturer  in  line  with  the  requirements  of  the  Guidance  PIC/S  PI  007-6 
“Recommendation on the Validation of Aseptic Processes” and Annex 15 to the EU Guide to GMP. The 
applied bracketing approach covers the manufacturing process of Ciambra 100 mg and 500 mg and is 
acceptable.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the 
finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. 
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf life specifications include appropriate tests and limits for this 
kind of dosage form including appearance (visual), particulate (visible and subvisible) matter (Ph. 
Eur.), clarity  and colour of the reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), reconstitution time, water content 
(Ph. Eur.), pH of the reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), oxygen 
headspace (Ph. Eur.), osmolality in reconstituted solution (Ph. Eur.), identification (HPLC, HPLC-DAD), 
assay (Ph. Eur.), impurities (HPLC), sterility (Ph. Eur.) and bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.).  
The impurities from active substance and drug product degradation are controlled as single unspecified 
impurities in the finished product specifications in line with current ICH Q3B guideline on “Impurities in 
New Medicinal Products” for the maximum daily dose.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards of 
active substance and impurities has been presented.  
Batch data are provided on three pilot scale batches for each strength manufactured at the pilot site 
(not proposed manufacturer), one pilot batch and three commercial batches for each strength 
manufactured at proposed manufacturing site. Full analytical testing as per the proposed drug product 
specification was performed. Results were in line with proposed specifications and confirm the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification. The same batches have been placed on stability studies. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been conducted on 2 pilot batches (one per strength) and 6 commercial batches 
(three per strength) manufactured at proposed manufacturing site packaged in the proposed 
packaging in accordance with ICH requirements. Stability results were provided for up to 12 at long-
term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH and 30 ºC / 75% RH) and for six months under accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75% RH). 
Stability data were also provided for 6 older pilot scale batches (three per strength) in the proposed 
packaging and manufactured at the pilot site (not proposed manufacturer) for up to 18 months at 
long-term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH and 30 ºC / 75% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75% RH). 
Parameters  tested  as  per  the  stability  protocol:  appearance  of  the  powder,  particulate  contamination 
(visible/subvisible) of the reconstituted solution, colour and clarity of the reconstituted solution, water 
content,  reconstitution  time,  pH  of  the  reconstituted  solution,  closure  integrity,  identification  (HPLC), 
assay, purity tests, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. All the results met the specification and did not 
show any trend in any storage condition.  
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 13/23 
 
 
 
 
Forced  degradation  studies  were  also  performed  where  samples  were  stress  tested  (temperature, 
composition of acidic, basic, oxidative and light exposure). Based on this study the analytical method 
were shown to be stability indicating. 
Photostability studies 
The  photostability  testing  on  one  pilot  batch  per  strength  following  the  ICH  Q1B  guideline 
(CPMP/ICH/279/95)  was  conducted.  The  parameters  tested  were:  appearance  of  the  powder, 
particulate  contamination  (visible/subvisible)  of  the  reconstituted  solution,  colour  and  clarity  of  the 
reconstituted  solution,  pH  of  the  reconstituted  solution,  water  content,  identification  (HPLC),  assay, 
purity  tests,  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxins.  None  of  them  showed  any  significant  change  and  results 
met specification. 
In-use stability studies 
In-use stability studies on the reconstituted solution (concentrate solution 25 mg/ml) and solution for 
infusion (minimum and maximum concentrations, 3 mg/ml and 12 mg/ml, respectively) have been 
performed in upright and in inverted position of the vials for reconstituted solution and in the 
polyvinylchloride laminated bag (equipped with an infusion kit) and polyolefin laminated infusion bags 
for further diluted solution were performed including infusion set. In-use stability study has been 
performed at temperature (5±3) °C and room temperature at time points 12 h and 24 h. One pilot and 
one commercial scale batch have been used for this study. The batches used for the in-use studies 
stability were stored for 6 months at accelerated storage conditions (40°C/75% RH).  
Parameters  tested:  appearance  of  the  powder,  particulate  contamination  (visible/subvisible)  of  the 
reconstituted solution, colour and clarity of the reconstituted solution, pH of the reconstituted solution, 
identification (HPLC), assay, purity tests, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. 
Based  on  the  results  the  following  storage  instructions  are  proposed:  Chemical  and  physical  in-use 
stability  of  reconstituted  and  infusion  solutions  of  pemetrexed  were  demonstrated  for  24  hours  at 
refrigerated  temperature  or  25°C.  From  a  microbiological  point  of  view,  the  product  should  be  used 
immediately.  If  not  used  immediately,  in-use  storage  times  and  conditions  prior  to  use  are  the 
responsibility  of  the  user  and  would  normally  not  be  longer  than  24  hours  at  2°C  to  8°C,  unless 
reconstitution  /  dilution  has  taken  place  in  controlled  and  validated  aseptic  conditions  (section  6.3  of 
SmPC).  However  because  the  in-use  study  was  conducted  on  batches  previously  stored  under 
accelerated conditions it is recommended that they are also performed on the reconstituted and diluted 
solutions  (pemetrexed  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  25  mg/ml  and  pemetrexed  solution  for 
infusion 3 mg/ml and 12 mg/ml, respectively) at final shelf-life point (see 2.2.6 Recommendations for 
future quality development). 
On  the  basis  of  the  overall  available  stability  data,  the  shelf  life  of  24  months  without  any  special 
storage  conditions  during  the  proposed  shelf-life  as  stated  in  section  6.3  and  6.4  of  the  SmPC  is 
accepted 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. Ciambra can be considered pharmaceutically comparable 
with the reference product. The product is manufactured by aseptic processing which is considered as 
a non-standard process and therefore full process validation data have been provided confirming the 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 14/23 
 
 
 
 
manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality in a 
reproducible manner. The choice of the sterilization method has been sufficiently justified and 
supported by data. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important 
product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
to perform in-use stability studies on the reconstituted and diluted solutions (pemetrexed concentrate 
for solution for infusion 25 mg/ml and pemetrexed solution for infusion 3 mg/ml and 12 mg/ml, 
respectively) at final shelf-life point for one batch of 100 mg and one of 500 mg strength. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. 
However the Applicant has conducted some non-clinical studies to assess the tolerability of clinical 
dose form of Ciambra which are presented below. The impurity profile has been discussed and was 
considered acceptable. 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Toxicology 
Published  toxicity  data,  genotoxicity,  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  were  provided. 
Information  available  in  the  SmPC  of  Alimta  was  also  included.  In  addition,  the  Applicant  has 
conducted some non-clinical studies to assess the tolerability of the clinical dose form of Ciambra: (a) 
a local tolerance study after acute i.v., p.v. or i.a. administration in rabbits, (b) an investigation on the 
potential  for  human  red  blood  cell  haemolysis  and  (c)  genotoxic  studies  on  impurities  and  synthesis 
intermediates.  The  results  from  these  studies  showed  that  the  clinical  dose  of  Ciambra  is  well 
tolerated. 
Local tolerance 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 15/23 
 
 
 
 
 
The tolerance of Pemetrexed arising from single intravenous (intended clinical route), paravenous and 
intra-arterial  administration  (non-intended  routes)  of  the  test  item  was  investigated  in  female  New 
Zealand  White  rabbits.  Three  groups  (one  for  each  route  of  administration)  of  6  female  rabbits  each 
were  used.  The  animals  were  treated  in  the  left  and  right  ear  with  the  test  or  control  item, 
respectively.  A  dose  volume  of  0.5  mL/site  was  injected  through  the  intravenous  and  intra-arterial 
routes  while  a  volume  of  0.2  mL/site  was  injected  through  the  paravenous  route.  The  resulting 
reaction  to  treatment  was  assessed  approximately  1  hour  after  dosing  and  daily  thereafter.  The  first 
three  animals/group  were  sacrificed  approximately  24  hours  after  dosing,  while  the  remaining  three 
animals per group were sacrificed 7 days after treatment. Histopathological evaluation of the injection 
sites was performed for each animal. No relevant irritation was observed at the sites of injection. 
Other toxicity studies 
Haemolysis: 
Erythrocyte  osmotic  fragility  (haemolysis)  was  assessed  on  blood  samples,  taken  from  healthy  male 
donors, after treatment with the test item Pemetrexed. The test item was reconstituted in physiological 
saline at 10 mg/mL. Solutions at 500, 300 and 100 mg/mL were prepared in physiological saline and 
used  for  treatment.  A  single  experiment  was  performed.  The  experiment  included  positive,  negative 
and vehicle controls and test item solutions prepared as above described. Samples were incubated for 
3  hours  at  37    2°C  in  a  water  bath  in  static  condition.  At  the  end  of  the  incubation  time,  samples 
were  centrifuged,  supernatants  were  diluted  with  Drabkin’s  Solution  and  read  at  540  nm.  The 
supernatant haemoglobin concentration of each sample was obtained from a calibration curve. 
No haemolysis was observed in blood samples exposed to the test item at any concentration tested. 
No  haemolysis  was  observed  in  blood  samples  treated  with  negative  or  vehicle  controls.  Treatment 
with  the  positive  control  Tween  80  yielded  92%  haemolysis,  indicating  the  correct  functioning  of  the 
assay  system.  It  is  concluded  that  the  test  item  Pemetrexed  does  not  induce  haemolysis  under  the 
reported experimental conditions. 
Toxicity of impurities: 
Furthermore,  genotoxic  tests  (Ames  test  and/or  micronuclei  in  human  lymphocytes)  were  conducted 
by the Applicant on synthesis intermediates, MEN19150, MEN19151 and impurities.  
In conclusion, all intermediates and impurities tested were considered as non-genotoxic apart from the 
intermediate Methyl 4-(3-bromo-4-oxobutyl) benzoate. 
2.3.3.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Ciambra manufactured by Menarini International Operations Luxembourg S.A. is 
considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all 
pemetrexed containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, 
the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.4.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of pemetrexed are well known. 
Published literature has been reviewed and is considered of suitable quality. The non-clinical data 
submitted with this application did not raise any concern.  
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 16/23 
 
 
 
 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for powder for concentrate for solution for infusion containing pemetrexed.  
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of pemetrexed based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
The  active  substance  contained  in  Alimta  is  pemetrexed  disodium  heptahydrate  whereas  the  active 
substance  contained  in  Ciambra  is  pemetrexed  disodium  hemipentahydrate.  The  hydrate  form  of  the 
drug substance does not affect bioavailability of the drug product since the drug substance is dissolved 
in  water  for  injection  during  the  formulation  process  and  the  drug  product  is  administered  as  an 
intravenous  infusion.  The  Applicant  states  that  once  dissolved  in  water  and  lyophilized,  the  final  drug 
product is identical to the reference product Alimta. 
Ciambra  contains  the  same  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  in  active  substance,  indications, 
route of administration, dosage form and posology as Alimta. 
Ciambra  does  not  contain  a  different  salt,  ester,  ether,  isomer,  mixture  of  isomers,  complex  or 
derivative of an active substance than the reference medicinal product. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  information  that  the excipients  contained  in the  proposed  formulation  are 
the same and in the same quantity as the ones contained in the reference product formulation. 
Both products are intended for intravenous use and must be reconstituted and further diluted prior to 
use.  After  reconstitution  each  presentation  of  both  the  proposed  product  and  the  originator  product 
contains 25 mg/ml of pemetrexed. 
Biowaiver 
No bioequivalence studies have been submitted. 
According  to  the  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of  bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), 
bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the product is to be administered as an aqueous IV 
solution  containing  the  same  active  drug  substance  in  the  same  concentration  as  the  currently 
authorised  product.  Pemetrexed  solution  is  intended  for  IV  use  and  contains  the  same  active  drug 
substance in a concentration (25 mg/mL) similar to the concentration of 100 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial 
presentations of Alimta and therefore, no bioequivalence studies are required. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 17/23 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Ciambra, 100 mg and 500 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, has the same active 
substance and the same excipients in comparable amounts as the reference medicinal product, Alimta. 
Furthermore, Ciambra has the same indications, posology, pharmaceutical form, route of 
administration and strength after reconstitution as Alimta. 
There are no concerns with Ciambra from a clinical efficacy point of view. 
No new studies have been conducted and none are required under the provisions of the Note for 
Guidance on the investigation of Bioequivalence and Bioavailability (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev. 1): 
“Bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved 
product”.   
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Ciambra and justifications that the active 
substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference 
product was provided and is deemed acceptable and sufficiently up-to-date. This is in accordance with 
the relevant guideline and additional clinical/bioequivalence studies were not considered necessary. 
The CHMP considers that there are no objections to approval of Ciambra 100 mg and 500 mg powder 
for concentrate for solution for infusion from a clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment 
report.  
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and/or CHMP.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.3 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Non-compliance with folic acid and vitamin B12 
regimens manifested mainly as haematological 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 18/23 
 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities 
Renal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Radiation pneumonitis 
Radiation recall 
Sepsis 
Bullous skin reaction including Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis 
(TEN) 
Bone marrow suppression 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product.  
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
Noncompliance with folic acid 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
and vitamin B12 regimens 
information.  
manifested mainly as 
haematological and 
Prescription only medicine. 
gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Renal disorders 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 19/23 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
Interstitial pneumonitis 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Radiation pneumonitis 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Radiation recall 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Sepsis 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Bullous skin reaction including 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
information.  
(SJS) and toxic epidermal 
necrolysis (TEN) 
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
Bone marrow suppression 
Ensure awareness via product 
None 
information.  
Prescription only medicine. 
Use restricted in hospitals. 
2.6.  PSUR submission 
At the time of granting the marketing authorisation, the submission of periodic safety update reports 
is not required for this medicinal product. However, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product if the product is included in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83 and published on 
the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 20/23 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable as the format and layout of 
the package leaflet of pemetrexed 100 mg and 500 mg, powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion, is consistent with the one of the originator. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of pemetrexed powder for concentrate for solution for 
infusion. The reference product Alimta is indicated for  
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Alimta in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Alimta is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance. However, the applicant 
provided a clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature 
which was considered sufficient. 
Bioequivalence testing with the reference product is not required under the provisions of the Guideline 
on the investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98/Rev.1) since the product is to be 
administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance in the same 
concentration as the currently authorised product 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product Alimta can therefore be concluded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 21/23 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus/majority decision that the benefit-risk balance of Ciambra in the following indications: 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of chemotherapy naïve patients 
with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Ciambra in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the first line treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology in patients whose disease 
has not progressed immediately following platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Ciambra is indicated as monotherapy for the second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Not applicable. 
Additional risk minimisation measures   
• 
Not applicable. 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/802052/2015  
Page 23/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
