EMA/156457/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005452 
Cibinqo (abrocitinib) 
An overview of Cibinqo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Cibinqo and what is it used for? 
Cibinqo is a medicine used to treat adults with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (also known as 
eczema, when the skin is itchy, red and dry). It is used in patients for whom treatment applied directly 
to the skin cannot be used or is not sufficient.  
Cibinqo contains the active substance abrocitinib. 
How is Cibinqo used? 
Cibinqo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of patients with atopic dermatitis. 
The medicine is available as tablets to be taken by mouth once a day. Your doctor may interrupt 
treatment if certain side effects occur, including serious infections. Your doctor may also stop 
treatment with Cibinqo if symptoms do not improve after 24 weeks of treatment.  
For more information about using Cibinqo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Cibinqo work? 
The active substance in Cibinqo, abrocitinib, works by blocking the action of enzymes known as Janus 
kinases. These enzymes play an important role in the process of inflammation that occurs in atopic 
dermatitis. By blocking the enzymes’ action, abrocitinib helps reduce itching and inflammation of the 
skin. 
What benefits of Cibinqo have been shown in studies? 
Cibinqo was effective at reducing the extent and severity of atopic dermatitis in three main studies 
involving patients with moderate to severe disease that had not responded well enough to treatment 
applied to the skin. The main measures of effectiveness were having clear or almost clear skin and a 
reduced symptom score of at least 75% after 12 weeks. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The first study involved 387 adults and children aged 12 years and above. Around 44% of patients 
taking 200 mg Cibinqo had clear or almost clear skin, compared with 8% of those who received 
placebo (a dummy treatment). In addition, symptoms were satisfactorily reduced in 63% of patients 
who received 200 mg Cibinqo, compared with around 12% of those who received placebo.  
In the second study, involving 391 adults and children aged 12 years and above, treatment with 200 
mg Cibinqo led to clear or almost clear skin in about 38% of the patients compared with around 9% of 
patients receiving placebo. Symptoms were satisfactorily reduced in 61% of patients taking 200 mg 
Cibinqo, compared with 10% of those receiving placebo. 
In the third study, involving 838 adult patients, treatment with 200 mg Cibinqo led to clear or almost 
clear skin in around 48% of patients compared with 14% of those receiving placebo. Symptoms were 
satisfactorily reduced in 70% of patients taking 200 mg Cibinqo, compared with about 27% of patients 
on placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Cibinqo? 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions with Cibinqo, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effect with Cibinqo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is nausea 
(feeling sick). Other common side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 100 people) include headache, 
acne, herpes simplex (viral infection of the mouth or the genitals), increased levels of creatine 
phosphokinase in the blood (an enzyme released into the blood when muscle is damaged), vomiting, 
dizziness and pain in the upper belly. The most common serious side effect is infection.  
Cibinqo must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the ingredients, in 
patients with a serious generalized infection, including tuberculosis, or in patients with severe liver 
problems. The medicine must also not be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding. Women who are 
able to have children must use contraception during treatment with Cibinqo and for one month after 
stopping treatment. 
Cibinqo should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available in patients aged 65 
years or above, in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease (such as heart attack or stroke) or 
with risk factors for such a disease (such as current or previous long-term smokers), or in patients at 
increased risk of cancer. 
Why is Cibinqo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Cibinqo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
only be authorised for use in adults in the EU. 
Three main studies have shown that Cibinqo is effective at clearing the skin and reducing symptoms of 
atopic dermatitis. The side effects are considered manageable for adults. Due to findings in the bones 
of juvenile rats, additional long-term data in growing adolescents are needed to conclude that Cibinqo 
can be safely used by this age group.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cibinqo? 
The company that markets Cibinqo will provide educational materials for doctors prescribing the 
medicine and an alert card for patients, containing important information about the risks associated 
with the medicine. Particularly the risks of infections, thrombosis (formation of blood clots in the blood 
vessels), major cardiovascular events and cancer in certain patients. They will also include a reminder 
Cibinqo (abrocitinib)  
EMA/156457/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
that Cibinqo should not be taken during pregnancy and that women who are able to have children 
should use contraception during treatment and for one month after stopping treatment.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cibinqo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Cibinqo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Cibinqo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Cibinqo 
Cibinqo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 December 2021. 
Further information on Cibinqo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/cibinqo 
This overview was last updated in 04-2023. 
Cibinqo (abrocitinib)  
EMA/156457/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
