European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/176303/2008 
REFUSAL ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
CIMZIA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
certolizumab pegol  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/740 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRODUCT INFORMATION 
Name of the medicinal product: 
CIMZIA 
Applicant: 
UCB S.A. 
Allée de la Recherche 60 
B-1070 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Active substance: 
certolizumab pegol   
International Nonproprietary 
Name/Common Name: 
certolizumab pegol 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Selective immunosuppressive agents  
(L04AB05) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
CIMZIA is indicated for treatment of severe, active 
Crohn’s disease in patients who have not responded 
despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a 
corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant or who 
are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for 
such therapies 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
Strength: 
200 mg  
Route of administration: 
Subcutaneous use 
Packaging: 
Package sizes: 
powder: vial (glass); Solvent: vial (glass) 
2 vials + 2 vials + 2 plastic syringes + 6 needles + 8 
alcohol swabs  
2/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ......................................................4 
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 4 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure.......................................................................... 5 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION............................................................................................................6 
2.1  
2.2  
2.3  
2.4  
2.5  
2.6  
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 6 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 13 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 39 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 39 
3 
RE-EXAMINATION OF THE CHMP OPINION OF 15 NOVEMBER 2007 .........................42 
3/50 
 
 
1 
  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant UCB S.A. submitted on 28 April 2006 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for CIMZIA,  through the centralised procedure falling within 
the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of Crohn's disease.   
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
A new application was filed in the following countries: USA on 1 March 2006. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Steffen Thirstrup  Co-Rapporteur: Tomas P Salmonson 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 28 April 2006. 
The procedure started on 24 May 2006.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 August 
2006  (Annex  3.1).  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 11 August 2006 (Annex 3.2).  
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  September  2006,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 September 2006 (Annex 3.3). 
The CHMP agreed to the request from the applicant dated 18 October 2006 for an additional 3-
month extension of timeframe to submit responses to the List of Questions. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 12 April 
2007.  On  10  May  2007  the  applicant  submitted  an  update  correcting  an  error  in  the  clinical 
documentation. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 1 June 2007 (Annex 3.4). 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  18-21  June  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing and by the applicant (Annex 3.5). 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
21 August 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 25 September 2007 (Annex 3.6). 
During the BWP meeting on 8-10 October 2007 outstanding quality issues were addressed by 
the applicant in an oral hearing before the BWP 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  15-18  October  2007,  outstanding  issues  were  addressed  by  the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP 
During  the  meeting  on  12-15  November  2007,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  negative  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to CIMZIA on 15 November 2007.  
4/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 
Steps taken for the re-examination procedure 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Dr. P. Demolis 
Co-Rapporteur:  Dr. S. Ormarsdottir 
•  The  applicant  submitted  written  notice  to  the  EMEA  on  5 December 2007  to  request  a 
re-examination of the CIMZIA CHMP opinion of 15 November 2007. 
•  During its meeting on 10-13 December 2007, the CHMP appointed Dr. P. Demolis as Rapporteur 
and Dr S. Ormarsdottir as Co-Rapporteur. 
•  The  detailed  grounds  for  the  re-examination  request  were  submitted  by  the  applicant  on  18 
January 2008  (Appendix  2  of  Final  Opinion).  The  re-examination  procedure  started  on  19 
January 2008. 
•  The  Rapporteur's  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  on  22 February 2008  (Annex  3.7).  The 
Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report was circulated on 19 February 2008 (Annex 3.8). 
•  The  CHMP  adopted  a  List  of  Participants  for  an  Ad-hoc  Expert  meeting  to  be  held  on  4  March 
2008 together with the List of Question to be addressed by the experts, through written procedure 
28 February 2008. 
•  During a meeting of the CHMP Ad-hoc Expert meeting on 4 March 2008, experts were convened 
to consider the grounds for re-examination. During this meeting the applicant presented an oral 
explanation. A report of this meeting was forwarded to the CHMP (Annex 3.9). 
•  The  Rapporteurs’  Joint  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  March 
2008 (Annex 3.10). 
•  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  17-19  March  2008,  the  applicant  presented  an  oral  explanation 
before the CHMP on 18 March 2007.  
•  During the meeting on 17-19 March 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a final Opinion recommending the refusal of 
granting a Marketing Authorisation for CIMZIA. 
5/50 
 
 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1   Introduction 
CIMZIA  has  been  developed  for  the  treatment  of  active  Crohn’s  disease,  a  chronic  inflammation  of 
the digestive tract, especially of the lower small intestine (ileum) and colon.  
Certolizumab  pegol,  the  drug  substance  of  CIMZIA  is  a  recombinant,  humanized  Fab'  antibody 
fragment  covalently  bound  to  a  maleimido  terminated  bis  methoxypoly  (ethylene  glycol)  modified 
lysine, PEG2MAL40K, through a thioether linkage. The Fab’ antibody fragment is linked to ethylene 
glycol in order to extend its plasma half-life to that of the whole antibody.  
Certolizumab pegol is directed against TNF-α and neutralizes soluble and membrane TNF-α, inhibits 
the  binding  of  TNF-α  to  human  p55  and  p75  TNF  receptors  and  inhibits  LPS-induced  cytokine 
production  in  human  monocytes.  Certolizumab  pegol  does  not  cause  antibody  or  complement 
dependent cytotoxicity, and does not induce neutrophil degranulation or apoptosis in human peripheral 
blood-derived T-lymphocytes and monocytes. 
The originally claimed indication was “for inducing clinical response and maintaining clinical 
response and remission in patients with active Crohn’s disease who are intolerant, have medical 
contraindications or had insufficient response to prior therapy with corticosteroids with or without 
immunosuppressants and / or 5-amino salicylic acid (ASA) and analogues. 
In addition, CIMZIA was indicated for inducing clinical response and maintaining clinical response 
and remission in patients with active Crohn’s disease who have previously received infliximab.” 
After review of the dossier, the applicant proposed a revised indication as follows: 
“CIMZIA is indicated for treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in patients who have not 
responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies.” 
The recommended dose is 400 mg dose divided into two sc injections at Weeks 0, 2 and 4 followed by 
400 mg at 4 weekly intervals.  
Some patients who have not responded by week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period. 
2.2   Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Certolizumab pegol (CDP870), the drug substance of Cimzia is a recombinant, humanized Fab' 
antibody fragment covalently bound to a maleimido terminated bis methoxypoly (ethylene glycol) 
modified lysine, PEG2MAL40K, through a thioether linkage. The linkage of the Fab’ antibody 
fragment to ethylene glycol is in order to extend its plasma half-life to that of the whole antibody. 
The variable region sequences of CDP870 Fab’ were derived from a murine IgG2a antibody by CDR 
grafting with kappa light chain and gamma 1 heavy chain constant regions. The Fab' fragment is 
directed against TNF (alpha) and neutralizes the biological activity of TNF α. The CDP870 Fab' 
fragment is produced in Escherichia coli. Following purification by standard chromatographic 
methods, the CDP870 Fab' fragment is conjugated to PEG2MAL40K, through a cysteine that is 
located three amino acids from the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain fragment. A single molecule 
of PEG2MAL40K is covalently bound to each Fab' molecule. The resulting Fab’- PEG2MAL40K 
6/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conjugate is further purified and formulated in lactate buffer at acidic pH to yield the Certolizumab 
pegol drug substance.  
The development of CDP870 drug substance has encompassed various site, scale, and manufacturing 
process changes. 
The drug product is presented as a lyophilized formulation containing 200 mg/vial. Each vial is 
intended for single use, following reconstitution with sterile Water for Injection. 
PEG2MAL40K – Pegylation moiety 
The PEG2MAL40K is a polymeric substance with a distribution of different chain lengths. The 
PEG2MAL40K moiety comprises two 20 kDA PEG chains linked to a reactive maleimide group.  
The manufacturing process has been adequately described and information on in-process controls is 
provided. The manufacturing process has been validated; however, the results for the three validation 
batches are not provided. This is considered acceptable as the results of the extensive amount of 
production batches satisfactorily demonstrate that the manufacturing process is in control and capable 
of producing a consistent and uniform product.  
Control of materials has been adequately described and specifications for all starting materials, 
solvents etc. are provided. The reference standard for the identity assay, has been adequately 
characterised. 
Impurities are satisfactorily described with respect to origin of the impurity, fate of the impurity 
and analytical control.  
Stability results have been presented to support the proposed storage condition of 15 months at - 
20˚C. 
Active Substance  
General information 
The light chain of Certolizumab pegol is composed of 214 amino acid residues and the heavy chain is 
composed of 229 amino acid residues. The two chains are linked via a disulfide bond between the 
cysteine at position 214 on the light chain (the C-terminus) and the cysteine in position 221 on the 
heavy chain. The PEG2MAL40K moiety is a polydisperse mixture of an average molecular weight of 
40,000 Da that is covalently bound to the CDP870 Fab' through the C-terminal cysteine at position 
227 of the heavy chain.  
The experimentally determined molecular mass of CDP870 Fab' is approximately 47.8kDa. The 
experimentally determined molecular mass of Certolizumab pegol is approximately 90.8 kDa, which is 
consistent with the addition of a single molecule of PEG2MAL40K per molecule of CDP870 Fab'. 
•  Manufacture 
Manufacturers 
Genetic development 
The generation and control of the expression plasmid, pTTOCDP870 is described in sufficient detail. 
CDP870 is a humanized Fab' version of the murine HTNF40 antibody, which binds to humanTNF 
alpha and is a potent neutralizer of TNF activity. The expression plasmid contains DNA encoding a 
complete light chain plus a truncated heavy chain consisting of VH, CH1 and a modified hinge region. 
The sequence of the γ1 hinge was changed from Cys-Pro-Pro-Cys to Cys-Ala-Ala to generate a hinge 
region with a single cysteine residue available for site-specific attachment of the PEG moiety. Detailed 
flow charts of the construction of the expression plasmid are provided. Expression is under control of 
the tac promoter. Both light and heavy antibody chains are fused to an OmpA leader sequence, 
7/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
allowing translocation of the antibody chains to the E. coli periplasm. No DNA from the HTNF40 
hybridoma is present in the genes encoding CDP870 Fab′. 
Cell Banking 
Cell banks of an E.coli strain (W3110) were manufactured using animal-free media. The generation of 
the producer cell line, the master cell bank (MCB) and the master working cell banks (MWCB) is 
adequately described. In addition, data on the characterisation of the producer cell line and the cell 
banks used in production are considered satisfactory in general. Acceptable protocols for the 
preparation and control of new MWCBs are included in the dossier. 
Genetic stability 
Testing of end-of-production cells (EOP) post-production cell bank (PPCB was performed to establish 
the genetic stability and robustness of the fermentation process. Analysis of copy numbers 
(copies/cell) from sub-cultured cells or directly from vials, plasmid retention, retention of expression 
construct, restriction digest and DNA sequence (post production cell bank) are sufficiently described.  
Overall, acceptable information has been provided on genetics development, genetic stability and cell 
bank stability. 
Cell culture and purification 
The drug substance manufacturing process is described in great detail, including the control of 
temperature, the acceptable range for operational controls, the compositions of buffers and media 
used, as well as the identification of in-process control tests and the specification/action limits by 
which they are controlled. Conditions for storage of process intermediates have been defined and the 
maximum time of storage has been specified. 
The CDP870 Drug Substance is produced during specific manufacturing campaigns, in which the Fab' 
is extracted, purified, and pegylated. Manufacture is divided into three main areas which reflect the 
major activities: fermentation, primary isolation, and purification/pegylation. 
The fermentation process (Step 1-3) consists of stepwise expansion of the cell mass.  
Overall, acceptable in-process controls are in place throughout the CDP870 manufacturing process. It 
was however observed that all controls were related to process parameters and not at all to purity 
improvement during the process. It was recommended that in-process controls for the purity of the 
CDP870 Fab’ should be introduced before pegylation.  
Validation 
Originally the validation of the CDP870 drug substance manufacturing process has been performed by 
analysing parameters of three consecutive full-scale batches through the cell growth, harvest, isolation, 
pegylation and purification. These studies conducted for validation of the production process were in 
many respects both well designed and reported, but the control of consistency of the production was 
addressed only in terms of process performance. No data were reported showing e.g. how product 
purity progresses in the process of purification, and critical parameters controlling the formation 
and/or the removal of product related substances/impurities were not identified.  
To address this concern, additional studies were performed to evaluate the progression of product 
purity, the product purity over the defined operation ranges for key process parameters, assessment of 
the in-process control strategy, review of the criticality of process parameters and considerations of the 
introduction of additional in-process controls for CDP870 Fab’ purity. Overall, these data indicate that 
the process is sufficiently validated. 
•  Characterisation 
The structural and functional characteristics of CDP870 drug substance have been investigated using a 
wide variety of analytical tools including amino acid analysis, N-terminal sequencing, MALDI-TOF 
mass spectrometry, enzymatic and chromatographic methods, physical analyses, and binding and 
neutralization assays. In addition, forced degradation studies have been performed on CDP870 Drug 
8/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substance. Product related impurities have been studied by a range of methods including RP-
HPLC/Isoquant®-reaction, Peptide Mapping, RP-HPLC, CX-HPLC, and SE-HPLC. 
Although extensive characterisation was done on CDP870 drug substance the use of various different 
materials,  Fab’  fragment  batches,  drug  substance  batches/drug  substance  reference  standard  and  the 
fact that the batches are produced by different processes over a number of years, made it difficult to 
draw a firm conclusion on the characterisation of CDP870 drug substance. 
With  the  response  to  the  Day  120  LoQ  the  applicant  submitted  an  exhaustive  characterisation  of 
CDP870  Fab’  and  CDP870  drug  substance  conducted  on  material  representative  of  the  commercial 
process,  revealing  the  structure  of  CDP870  Fab’-  and  drug  substance  as  well  as  product  related 
substances and impurities. The methods used are considered as state of the art. 
•  Specifications 
The specifications are justified based on 3 standard deviations around the mean of release data of all 
batches used in the phase III clinical trials. The end of shelf life specifications are justified based on 
trend analysis data of stability batches. The proposed release specifications have either been tightened 
or are the same as those applied to the phase III clinical trial material. The release specifications are 
considered acceptable with the following exception: 
Control of purity 
An area which is still of major concern is the control of the purity of drug substance and drug product.  
In the specification originally proposed, the purity tests were solely used to define the maximum levels 
of  specified  impurities.  Testing  of  the  purity/integrity  of  the  “intact”  drug  substance  was  lacking.  It 
was  proposed  to  introduce  a  specification  for  the  level  of  purity.  The  introduction  of  a  SE-HPLC 
purity test in the specification of the drug substance and drug product had been endorsed, but as no 
justification was given for choosing this method, it was difficult to conclude whether it was sufficient 
or not. In order to support the choice of the method, results from other purity tests had therefore been 
requested. 
In order to resolve this issue the applicant, at an oral hearing at the BWP meeting on 9 October 2007, 
outlined their approach for solving the remaining quality issues. 
Considering the orally presented data, the BWP concluded, that the applicant’s strategy to resolve this 
major objection seems adequate. The proposed purity specifications were all based on an acceptable 
number of batches and they were all shown to be within, or below, the level present in clinical trial 
material. However, in line with centralised procedures for other medicinal products a final conclusion 
on this major objection can only be drawn after the assessment of data submitted in writing. 
Further at the oral hearing at the BWP on 9 October 2007, the issue on Isomer 1 was addressed by the 
applicant. 
The  strategy  outlined  by  the  applicant  was  deemed  acceptable  to  the  BWP.  Nevertheless,  the  BWP 
informed the applicant that an assessment of a written response is required for a final conclusion on 
this point.  
Analytical methods 
In general, analytical methods are adequately described. The pre-defined acceptance criteria for each 
parameter tested are met and it is concluded that the analytical procedures for drug substance release 
and stability testing have shown to be valid for their intended use.  
However, the reports on the validation of the methods used for control of purity (methionine 
oxidation, CEX-HPLC), SE-HPLC) should be updated to include information on the performance of 
analysis to quantify the main component and product-related impurities.  
Reference standard 
9/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The reference material is adequately characterised. 
Batch data 
Extensive batch analysis data from batches used in phase III clinical studies, for process validation and 
stability studies have been provided. The data show that the proposed manufacturing process is 
capable of consistently producing drug substance. 
•  Stability 
Stability data were submitted to justify the proposed shelf life of the drug substance of 24 months 
when stored at -70°C ±10°C. The stability of the drug substance has been extensively investigated on 
supportive and pivotal long-term stability batches. In general, results at all time points tested conform 
to the shelf-life specification and the data presented do not show a trend in degradation of the drug 
substance. The post approval stability protocol is acceptable. 
At  the  time  of  opinion,  the  issues  relating  to  the  specifications  preclude  a  final  conclusion  on  the 
stability of the drug substance.  
•  Comparability Exercise for Drug Substance 
The development of CDP870 Drug Substance has encompassed various site, scale, and manufacturing 
process changes. The majority of the process changes have been associated with the primary recovery 
and downstream processing stages of the process in an effort to increase the recovery of CDP870 Fab' 
and to increase the purity of the final CDP870 Drug Substance. 
This is from a safety and efficacy point of view, not considered to be of concern as Phase III studies 
have been conducted with late process material and a further non-clinical study have been conducted 
with material. Pivotal clinical trials and a non-clinical study have thus been carried out with material 
representative of the commercial material. 
Comparability studies have been performed. The comparability studies consisted of side-by-side 
comparison of CDP870 drug substance release data, additional analytical characterisation of CDP870 
Fab’ and CDP870 drug substance together with stability data of the drug substance and finally an 
evaluation of in-process comparability.  
Overall the comparability studies are acceptable and show consistency between materials from the 
processes. 
Medicinal Product 
Composition and container closure system 
Cimzia drug product is presented as a sterile, white, lyophilisate for solution for subcutaneous 
injection. Each single dose vial contains 200 mg certolizumab pegol in a 5 mL nominal capacity vial. 
Each vial is intended for single use, following reconstitution with 1 ml of sterile water for injection 
(WFI). 
The composition of the drug product is listed in the table below.  
10/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The excipients used in the formulation of the drug product are of pharmacopoeial quality. There are no 
excipients of human/animal origin in the drug product. 
An overfill is included in the vial to enable withdrawal of 200 mg/mL upon reconstitution.  
The reconstitution diluent, sterile Water for Injection, is provided as a 1-mL fill in a 2-mL vial (PhEur) 
closed with a bromobutyl stopper (PhEur). 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The lyophilised formulation development has been thoroughly described and the rationale for the 
selection of the formulation and container configuration has been adequately addressed and justified. 
During the pre-clinical and clinical studies several changes in manufacturing site and batch size have 
been introduced. Furthermore, a major change in formulation (from liquid formulation to lyophilised 
formulation) has been introduced. These changes are considered well described and adequate 
comparability studies have been performed.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturing process 
The  manufacturing  process  which  was  establish  based  on  the  experience  in  development  is 
described  in  sufficient  detail,  including  information  on  the  control  in  operation,  the 
compounding,  filling  and  lyophilisation  steps.  Representative  commercial  batch  formulas  for 
batches  of  10,000  and  20,000  vials  are  provided.  The  drug  product  manufacturing  process 
comprises for storage, thawing and pooling of drug substance preparation of excipients solution 
and  compounding  of  formulated  bulk  drug  product  sterile  filtration  filling  and  lyophilisation 
capping  and  sampling  (step  9),  storage  of  lyophilised  product,  inspection,  inkjetting  batch 
number and bulk packaging, shipping, labelling and secondary packaging. The critical steps are 
defined and controlled.  
Studies for validation of the process cover the production of three batches produced in the commercial 
scale and in accordance with the established batch record. Furthermore, the process was validated.  
The excipients used in the formulation of the drug product are of pharmacopoeial quality. There are no 
excipients of human/animal origin in the drug product. 
•  Product Specification 
In general, the results of the specification analyses show that the manufacturing process used is 
capable of consistently producing drug product of the required quality. The selected parameters to 
control the drug product have been adequately justified and are considered acceptable besides those 
for isomer 1 and control of purity. For the latter one a major concern still remains. Reference is made 
to the discussion on the drug substance specification above. 
11/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With the response to the Day 180 LoI, the applicant proposed the drug product release and end-of-
shelf life specifications 
Analytical methods 
All methods for release testing of the drug product have been adequately described and are validated. 
The proposed limits are considered acceptable. Regarding the test methods for control of purity 
reference is made to the discussion on the drug substance specification above. 
Batch data 
Batch analysis data from 15 batches produced at the commercial manufacturing site confirm the 
consistency of the drug product manufacture. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability of the drug product has been extensively investigated on supportive and commercial 
batches. The supportive data show that the drug product is stable for the proposed shelf-life of 18 
months at 2-8°C. The post approval stability protocol is acceptable. The applicant commits to place at 
least one batch of the drug product in long term stability study per year. 
However,  the  issues  relating  to  the  specifications  preclude  a  final  conclusion  on  the  stability  of  the 
drug product (reference is made to the section on drug substance specifications and stability). 
•  Diluent 
The composition, manufacture and control of the diluent, Water for Injections in 2 ml glass vials, have 
been adequately documented. The proposed shelf-life of 36 months when stored at 25 ± 2°C is 
supported by stability data and is acceptable. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The non-viral safety of Cimzia is considered to be assured based on the precautions taken under 
manufacturing, the testing of raw materials and process steps. 
The drug substance production substrate is bacterial in origin and is considered unlikely to be capable 
of supporting the propagation of adventitious viral contaminants. 
The only component used in the commercial manufacture of animal origin is lactose which is derived 
from bovine milk fit for human consumption. Tryptose has been used in generation of the MCB and 
was sourced from animals from Austria, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States, countries 
considered to be free of BSE as of August of 1994 (date of the certificate of analysis for the batch 
used). Taken the sourcing area and time, and the dilution effect from MCB to fermentation harvest 
into consideration, the risk of transmitting TSE is considered negligible. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines. The information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-
to-batch production of Cimzia achieving a consistent quality for the drug substance and the drug 
product. The fermentation, purification and pegylation of the drug substance, Certolizumab pegol 
(CDP870), are adequately controlled and validated. The drug substance has been extensively 
characterised with regard to its physicochemical and biological characteristics using state-of the-art 
methods. The manufacturing process of the drug product has been described and validated in sufficient 
detail. In addition, the viral safety and the safety concerning other adventitious agents (including TSE) 
have been sufficiently assured. In general, appropriate drug substance and drug product specifications 
have been set. However, a major concern still remains regarding the control of purity of the drug 
substance and drug product. Assurance needs to be provided that the quality of the marketed product 
will be comparable to product on which the marketing authorisation application is based. The 
12/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant addressed this issue at on oral hearing at the BWP meeting by presenting data for the 
introduction of additional purity specifications for drug substance and drug product. The BWP 
considered the applicant’s strategy to resolve this major objection as adequate. However, in line with 
centralised procedures for other medicinal products a final conclusion can only be drawn after the 
assessment of data submitted in writing. The same conclusion was drawn on the applicant’s strategy 
presented for the clarification on the control of isomer 1 and the submission of updated reports for 
method validation and stability. 
2.3   Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The conducted non-clinical toxicity studies were all GLP-compliant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Certolizumab pegol binds soluble human TNFα (hTNFα) with high affinity (KD ~90 pM). Binding to 
transmembrane hTNFα was also shown. certolizumab pegol neutralised hTNFα in the L929 cell assay 
(IC90 3 ng/ml). It also inhibited LPS-induced release of cytokines in vitro (IC50 0.1-0.2 ng/ml). 
certolizumab pegol did not bind TNFα from rodents, rabbit, guinea pigs and dog, but it inhibited 
TNFα from non-human primates, with at least a 1000-fold lower activity than against hTNFα. The 
cynomolgus monkey was selected for toxicity testing and the IC90 (L929 cell assay or a monkey 
fibroblast assay) for TNFα in this species was 100 – 362 µg/ml. Data on interactions with the TNFα 
receptors (p55 and p75) are sparse, and preclude an estimation of actual potency. In contrast to other 
therapeutic TNFα antibodies, e.g. infliximab and adalimumab, certolizumab pegol did not mediate 
complement-dependent or antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, or induce cell apoptosis. 
There are no data on e.g. mitogenic effects or interactions with T- or B-cells.   
Certolizumab pegol was studied in two in vivo models where normal mice or rabbits were challenged 
with hTNFα. In these models, certolizumab pegol inhibited hTNFα induced effects. Effective doses 
ranged from 3-3000 µg/kg. certolizumab pegol also protected against development of arthritis in one 
transgenic mouse, serving as a disease model for polyarthritis, at 10 and 30 mg/kg. No animal model 
for Crohn’s disease has been used. 
In a standard in vitro human tissue cross reactivity study, 3 and 10 µg/ml of certolizumab pegol did 
not result in unexpected binding. A cynomolgus monkey cross reactivity study was not performed..  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In a standard in vitro human tissue cross reactivity study, 3 and 10 µg/ml of certolizumab pegol did 
not result in unexpected binding. A cynomolgus monkey cross reactivity study was not performed.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No in vivo safety pharmacology studies were performed. The justification for not undertaking in vivo 
safety pharmacology is accepted. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No in vivo pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were performed. The justification for not 
undertaking pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies is accepted. 
•  Comparability 
13/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro, no particular differences were found between materials from different processes, but the 
analysis criteria have not been validated to detect differences. Two in vivo studies were also 
undertaken. For the mouse model, although no statistical differences were found between the materials 
or formulations studied, the possibility to pick up small differences in this model is questioned. 
Results from the rabbit pyrexia model are not clear cut. It appears that material from all processes 
bound hTNFα in plasma as expected, but that material from process 6, and particularly process 7 had 
less biological activity than from process 3. Taken together, the available non-clinical data are 
insufficient to support comparability of material from earlier and later processes during development. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Analyses of certolizumab pegol and anti-certolizumab pegol antibodies were made by ELISAs. The 
presence of certolizumab pegol in plasma interferes with the antibody analyses, and vice versa, which 
reduces the reliability of the pharmacokinetic data and the possibility to detect anti-certolizumab pegol 
antibodies. Analysis of the PEG moiety was performed in blood and urine using a NMR assay. The 
method identified PEG covalently bound to the Fab’ fragment as well as 40 kDa PEG. 
In cynomolgus monkeys, certolizumab pegol appeared to have roughly linear pharmacokinetics. 
Bioavailability appeared nearly complete. Addition of 40 kDa PEG to the Fab’ fragment increases the 
elimination half-life and AUC when compared to the Fab’ fragment alone or the Fab’ added a 25 kDa 
PEG chain. The T½ was 8.5-10.5 days after repeated dosing. The presence of anti-certolizumab pegol 
antibodies appeared to result in shortened T½ values. If antibodies were neutralising remains unknown.  
In a distribution study, the PEG component was demonstrated in all analysed tissues (liver, spleen, 
kidneys, heart, lungs, brain and mesenteric lymph nodes) following administration of certolizumab 
pegol and the rat equivalent cTN3 PF to rats. The highest level of PEG was detected in the liver (7% 
of the dose administered). There was no indication of tissue uptake of PEG, associated with binding to 
membrane bound TNF alpha. 
Due to the protein nature of the Fab' fragment, it is expected to undergo proteolysis and excretion via 
the urine. Limited data from SDS-PAGE analyses indicate that only 40 kDa material can be identified 
in the urine of rats. Thus, it appears that the Fab’ is catabolised prior to excretion of the 2x 20 kDa 
PEG chains linked via a lysine residue. The metabolic fate of the maleimide linker is less clear. 
Following administration of a single dose of 400 mg/kg certolizumab pegol sc to rats, the terminal T½ 
for PEG was 24 days. The accumulated excretion was 65% in urine, and the total recovery (urine + 
feces) was 83%.  Analyses of tissues from rats given a single 100 mg/kg dose showed similar 
clearance from tissues and urine.  
cTN3 PF, which was used for testing of reproductive toxicity, showed negligible placental transfer and 
milk excretion. It was not detected in plasma of nursing pups. cTN3γ1, a complete antibody binding 
rat TNFα, passed the placenta to some extent (15%), and was excreted in milk (24%).  
An ELISA analysis of human plasma samples positive for antibodies to infliximab, did not suggest 
that anti-infliximab antibodies bound certolizumab pegol. Human plasma samples positive with 
neutralising anti-certolizumab pegol antibodies did not cross react with infliximab, etanercept or 
adalimumab.  
Toxicology 
Species specificity: The cynomolgus monkey was selected as the main species for toxicity testing. In 
vitro, certolizumab pegol was at least 3,500 to 33,000 times less potent against TNFα from 
cynomolgus than human (IC90 of 362 and 0.1 microg/ml in the monkey fibroblast assay or IC90 
100,000 and 3 ng/ml in the murine fibroblast assay, respectively). Furthermore, distribution / tissue 
cross reactivity data for certolizumab pegol in the cynomolgus are lacking. Thus, certolizumab pegol 
was considerably less potent in binding monkey TNFα than human, and the excess of the plasma 
levels above IC90 for TNFα is 10,000-fold higher in patients than in the monkey studies. These facts 
14/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may question the relevance of this model to fully identify effects related to inhibition of TNFα. 
Nevertheless, it is acknowledged that plasma levels in monkeys were above the IC90 for monkey TNFα 
and the plasma concentrations obtained resulted in saturation of membrane TNFα binding as well as 
binding of soluble TNFα. Furthermore, the clinical safety profile is fairly well established from 
experience with other anti-TNFα agents, and therefore these limitations are accepted. In terms of the 
PEG-component, data in both the rat and monkey are of value. One concern related to the 
certolizumab pegol construct. TNFα is present in a soluble and a transmembrane bound form. If 
certolizumab pegol binds cells expressing TNFα, it may lead to targeted exposure of certain cells to 
the PEG component. Data provided support that the majority of cell uptake is not antigen dependent. It 
was also shown that certolizumab pegol saturated membrane bound TNF α on different cell types from 
human and cynomolgus monkey, in a similar manner and at concentrations below those achieved in 
the toxicity studies.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
A slight decrease in T and B-cell marker values and an increase in kidney weight were observed 
following single iv administration of 100 and 400 mg/kg certolizumab pegol to cynomolgus monkeys. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies consisted of a 26-week repeat-dose toxicity study and a 52-
week immunotoxicity study, both performed in cynomolgus monkeys. The animals were administered 
10 and 100 mg/kg/week s.c. certolizumab pegol and 50 and 100 mg/kg/week s.c. in the 26- and 52-
week study, respectively. A process equivalent to the one intended for marketing (process 7) was 
applied in the 52-week study while the 26-week study applied certolizumab pegol material from the 
earlier processes 3 and 4.  
No effects on immune function were observed in the 52 weeks study, which is somewhat unexpected 
for an anti-TNFα agent and in clear contrast to earlier observations with other anti-TNFα agents.  
Decreases in platelets, white and red blood cells were found in the 52-week study. Increases in PT and 
APTT were observed in repeat i.v. dose studies conducted in monkeys and rats. APTT was also 
increased (30%) at both doses in the 52-week monkey study. It is suggested that it may be related to 
the PEG moiety, based on published data. In an in vitro study, certolizumab pegol increased APTT in 
monkey plasma. The lowest concentration tested 200 microg/ml, prolonged APTT, and is 4-fold above 
the estimated clinical exposure.  
In rats and monkeys, histopathology revealed cellular vacuolation, present mainly in macrophages, in 
a number of organs (lymph nodes; injection sites, spleen; adrenal; uterine, cervix; choroid plexus of 
the brain, and in the epithelial cells of the choroid plexus). These effects were partly reversible after 13 
or 26 weeks without treatment. There were no other morphological changes or adverse findings 
associated with the cell vacuolation in the tissues. 
For assessment of systemic exposure, plasma concentrations are mainly referred to. Two low dose 
animals in the 52 weeks study had detectable antibodies, but the number of positive samples may be 
underestimated since the presence of certolizumab pegol in plasma interferes with antibody analyses.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Certolizumab pegol displayed no genotoxic potential in a standard test battery. The PEG construct is 
not considered to pose genotoxic concern either. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity testing was not performed, which is accepted considering the characteristics of 
certolizumab pegol. However, in relation to the current knowledge about TNFα in the context of 
malignancies/lymphoma, there remains a clear concern about long-term suppression of the immune 
function due to TNFα inhibition and the potential for poorer control of e.g. nascent tumours. There are 
also signals from the clinical experience with the other anti-TNFα agents.  
15/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicology was assessed by using a homologous agent; cTN3 PF. It 
is a chimeric Fab’ fragment which is conjugated to 40 kDa PEG. cTN3 PF binds rat TNFα (IC90 1500 
ng/ml). Expected pharmacological activity was shown in an arthritis model at 100 mg/kg, while 10 
and 30 mg/kg, had minimal or lacked effects.  
A standard package of reproductive toxicity studies in the rat was submitted. Doses used were 20 /30 
and 100 mg/kg twice weekly. In male rats, reduced sperm motility and a trend of reduced sperm count 
were observed at both doses. Testis weight was increased in HD rats. There were no effects on mating, 
or unexpected macro/ microscopic findings. In female rat studies, covering dosing throughout the 
complete reproductive cycle, there were no effects on fertility, reproductive function, or 
developmental effects on offspring. Distribution studies have demonstrated that placental and milk 
transfer of cTN3 PF is negligible. Perhaps the same could be true for certolizumab pegol in humans, 
although it is unknown.  
There are limitations with the testing of reproductive/developmental toxicity. Firstly, only one species 
was studied. Secondly, only two dose levels were tested and no maternal effects were induced, 
questioning dose selection. Even if for the high dose group, plasma levels were in considerable excess 
of IC90 for in vitro effects, the low dose (20 mg/kg) had minimal or no pharmacological activity in an 
arthritis disease model, which questions the degree of TNFα inhibition at this dose.  
Reproductive/developmental toxicity data for an antibody, which inhibits rodent TNF; cTN3 γ1 were 
submitted. Administration of this compound resulted in some foetal exposure as well as offspring 
exposure (via milk). Overall, no effects on female fertility, reproductive function or embryo-foetal and 
postnatal development were observed. However, male fertility and sperm parameters were not studied.  
In conclusion, although data provide some support for lack of reproductive and developmental toxicity 
with certolizumab pegol, they are insufficient for recommendations on the use in women of child 
bearing potential and in pregnancy. The same precautions as for approved anti-TNF agents should be 
taken.  
•  Local tolerance  
Local tolerance data raised no concern. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
In vitro, certolizumab pegol (acetate buffer) did not cause haemolysis of whole blood from healthy 
donors, but dose-related erythrocyte clumping (from 0.33 mg/ml) and opalescence of plasma and 
serum (at 33 mg/ml). The NOEL for erythrocyte clumping (0.033 mg/ml) is below clinical plasma 
levels. The study report discusses that these effects may be due to the PEG-component based on 
published experience with other PEGs. Blood compatibility data for the formulation intended for 
marketing appears to be lacking.  
The presence of foamy macrophages in various organs is likely related to the PEG-component. In a set 
of in vitro tests with this PEG, mouse and human macrophage viability, and some other in vitro 
parameters were generally not affected, but phagocytic ability was reduced for uptake of bacteria and 
fungus. The NOEL was 0.1 (Fab’PEG) and 1 mg/ml (PEG). Some inhibition of T-cell proliferation to 
toxoid challenge in a human cell system was seen (NOEL 1 mg/ml). 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The environmental risk assessment of certolizumab pegol followed primarily the draft of guidelines 
related to this issue. From the results obtained, it is concluded that certolizumab pegol for 
16/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subcutaneous injection is of no immediate risk to the environment and no proposals for labelling 
provisions are necessary to reduce any potential environmental risks. 
2.4   Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
The full pharmacokinetic profile of certolizumab pegol has been characterised only after single dose 
administration in healthy subjects. There are however a large number of sparse sampling data from the 
pivotal clinical studies that have been used, together with the rich data from the healthy volunteer 
studies, in a population pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis. Several deficiencies have been identified in 
this population analysis making the confidence in the model low. Thus, results from the analysis have 
to be interpreted with great caution and, unless the model is re-developed, the information can only be 
used as indicative of various effects for example evaluation in special populations, time dependency 
and interactions. A regular multiple-dose PK-study in the target population has not been performed.  
The population PK analysis CDP870-039 estimated absolute bioavailability to be 85 %, being in 
agreement with values obtained in the traditional pharmacokinetic analyses. Mean Tmax ranged from 54 
hours to 171 hours following sc injection.  The observed mean Cmax following 400 mg sc doses ranged 
from 46.3 ± 13.1 µg/mL to 49.5 ± 8.2 µg/mL.  Mean Cmax increased with increasing doses in an 
approximately dose-proportional manner. Mean AUC extrapolated to infinity was evaluated following 
a single 400 mg sc dose ranging from 22,419 ± 7,398 µg.h/mL to 28,752 ± 4,205 µg.h/mL, 
respectively. AUC increased with increasing dose in a dose-proportional manner. Dose-related 
exposure has been demonstrated with an approximately linear relationship between the dose 
administered and the maximum certolizumab pegol concentration (Cmax) and the area under the 
certolizumab pegol plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) in healthy volunteers and patients 
with Crohn’s Disease. 
It has not been determined whether injection in either the anterior abdominal wall or the thigh alters 
the pharmacokinetics. No data are currently available but since the concern arises from a theoretical 
interference, no further information needs to be obtained for the time being. 
The volume of distribution was estimated to be low; around 6 to 7 L for a 70 kg person, similar values 
obtained in the healthy volunteer studies and in the population PK analysis. Clearance was estimated 
to approximately 10-15 mL/h in healthy volunteers and a somewhat higher estimate was obtained in 
the population PK analysis. Certolizumab pegol was found to have a long elimination t1/2 of 
approximately 14 days. After cessation of treatment plasma concentrations fell to almost minimum 
detectable levels by week 16. 
The potential impact of weight on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics has been evaluated. Even 
though smaller, expected differences related to bodyweight are observed in the available 
pharmacokinetic parameters. No effect was found on the pharmacodynamics. 
No human data are currently available on the pharmacokinetics of PEG. It is argued that data from 
preclinical studies in rodents and human data in the literature render it probable that this will also be 
the case for PEG deriving from certolizumab pegol. A clinical pharmacokinetic study is planned to 
confirm the route of elimination in humans. 
17/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of certolizumab pegol will result in the development of antibodies towards the drug in some 
of the patients. In the pivotal studies of Crohn’s disease where subjects received 400 mg sc. (CDP870-
031 and CDP870-032) the incidence of subjects testing positive for antibodies at any time during the 
studies was approximately 8-10%. The proportion of subjects developing antibodies was lower in 
those receiving concomitant immunosuppressants (3.3%). The fraction of patients developing 
antibodies seemed to increase with duration of treatment. It is important to note that the detection of 
anti-certolizumab pegol antibodies can be hampered by the presence of certolizumab pegol in the 
plasma, which may lead to false negative results and therefore to an underestimation of the incidence 
of antibody generation. Further, the definition of an anti-certolizumab pegol antibody positive subject 
is also dependent on the value used as cut-off in the definition.   
The presence of antibodies to certolizumab pegol appears to increase the clearance of certolizumab 
pegol, resulting in a reduction in Cmax, Ctrough and AUCτ. This may in turn be important as the drug 
effect probably will be decreased in these subjects. However, the relation between being an antibody 
positive patient to the outcome in efficacy and adverse effect is unclear at present. 
There appears to be time dependency in the pharmacokinetics for patients being antibody positive and 
negative. However, the magnitude of the time dependencies and whether its presence may be 
confounded by the decline in auto-antibodies towards TNFα combined with an unspecific assay for 
certolizumab pegol remains to be elucidated. 
The population analysis did not indicate a strong impact of gender on the pharmacokinetics of 
certolizumab pegol. Also, available data suggest that there is no effect of age on certolizumab pegol 
pharmacokinetics. However, few subjects above 70 years were included and no subjects above 73 
years of age. Therefore, caution should be exercised in the elderly population.  
The effect of moderate to severe renal or hepatic impairment has not been studied in separate 
pharmacokinetic studies. Thus, the pharmacokinetics and safety of certolizumab pegol in patients with 
moderate to severe renal or hepatic impairment are not known. However, since certolizumab is not 
expected to be extensively eliminated through hepatic routes, the lack of information regarding hepatic 
impairment is acceptable. Although the certolizumab pegol complex is too large to be eliminated 
through renal routes, the PEG fraction is expected to be renally excreted to a large extent. For the time 
being, no dosing recommendation in moderate and severe renal impairment can be provided.  
The original pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) assessment concluded that doses greater 
than 400 mg certolizumab pegol may result in some additional improvement in efficacy for induction 
or up to 12 weeks of treatment, however most of the effect (difference from placebo) would be 
achieved with a dose of 400 mg. On the basis of data from studies CDP870-031 and CDP870-032 a 
population PK/PD model was developed in which plasma concentrations of certolizumab pegol was 
related to the CDAI score. The model was used for clinical trial simulations with other induction dose 
schemes than the proposed, comprising higher doses or shorter dosing intervals. The results from the 
simulations indicate that there is no clinical advantage in increasing the initial dosing to 800 mg 
compared to 400 mg.  
•  Special populations 
No specific studies have been conducted in elderly patients or in patients with liver or renal 
impairment.  However, pharmacokinetics of certolizumab pegol in these populations was investigated 
in the population PK analysis (see above).  
Certolizumab pegol has not been studied in children. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Certolizumab pegol is an inhibitor of TNFα, a key cytokine that up-regulates cellular adhesion 
molecules, chemokines and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and class II molecules, 
as well as directing leukocyte activation.  Elevated levels of TNF-α have been implicated in the 
18/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pathology of Crohn’s disease.  TNF-α is strongly expressed in the bowel wall in areas affected by 
Crohn’s disease and faecal concentrations of TNF-α in patients with Crohn’s disease have been shown 
to reflect clinical severity of the disease.  After treatment with certolizumab pegol, patients with 
Crohn’s disease demonstrated a decrease in the levels of the acute phase marker of inflammation, C 
reactive protein (CRP). 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical programme consisted of two dose-finding studies and two pivotal clinical trials. Inclusion 
criteria in the controlled trials were similar: patients > 18 years of age with Crohn’s disease for at least 
3 months, a CDAI score between 220 and 450, and no stomas or abscesses. Patients with structuring 
disease, recent non-inflammatory obstruction or with short bowel were excluded as were patients with 
gastrointestinal infections and patients who had received prior anti-TNFα therapy without clinical 
response to first dose or had experienced severe adverse reactions to this. Stable co-medication 
including in about 40% immunosuppressants and in 20% steroids was allowed and stratified for. The 
primary efficacy parameter was response defined as a reduction of CDAI of at least 100 or remission 
(CDAI < 150), respectively lack of increase of the absolute value to more than 175. Remission was a 
secondary efficacy parameter. Patients were recruited worldwide with the largest subgroup being 
patients from Eastern Europe. Incomplete data from the two on-going open-label follow-up studies 
were included in the safety database. 
Completed Phase II and Phase III Studies 
Protocol 
Description of Study 
Certolizumab pegol Dose 
Phase 2 Safety and Efficacy 
CDP870-005 
CDP870-008 
12-week, multiple dose, parallel group, 
placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study in 
subjects with active Crohn’s disease (with 
follow-up to Week 20) 
4-week, single-dose, parallel group, 
placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study in 
subjects with active Crohn’s disease (with 
follow-up to Week 12) 
Phase 3 Safety and Efficacy 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
26-week, multiple dose, parallel group, 
placebo-controlled, efficacy Phase III 
study in subjects with active Crohn’s 
disease  
26-week, multiple dose, parallel group, 
placebo-controlled, Phase III study in 
subjects with active Crohn’s disease to 
assess maintenance of response 
100, 200 and 400 mg sc 
Placebo 
1.25, 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg 
iv 
Placebo 
400 mg sc 
Placebo 
400mg sc 
Placebo 
Number of 
Subjects 
Randomized 
219 
73 
68 
24 
331 
329 
216 
212 
Ongoing Long-term Safety Follow-up Studies 
Protocol 
Description of Study 
Certolizumab pegol 
Dose 
Number of 
Subjects 
Long Term Follow up Safety Studies 
19/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CDP870-033  Open-label safety study in subjects with 
400 mg sc 
Crohn’s disease for subjects completing –031 or 
–032.  (Dosing up to 2 years) 
CDP870-034  Open-label safety study in subjects with 
400 mg sc 
Crohn’s disease for subjects withdrawing from 
–031 or –032.  (Dosing up to 3 years) 
595 
310 
•  Dose response studies 
Study CDP-870-005 compared placebo with certolizumab pegol 100, 200 and 400 mg sc administered 
at week 0, 4, and 8. Of 372 patients screened 292 were randomised and 217 remained in the study at 
week 12 at which time efficacy was assessed. At week 12, the number of patients in each group 
obtaining response or remission did not differ between groups. Exploratory analyses revealed a 
statistically significant difference between placebo and 400 certolizumab pegol at week 2, 4, 8, and 10 
weeks. The number of patients in remission increased initially in the certolizumab pegol groups and 
levelled out while the placebo response increased steadily. Further post-hoc, exploratory analysis by 
baseline CRP levels at entry into the study demonstrated that the difference was confined to patients 
with initial CRP ≥ 10 mg/L.  
The second dose-response, placebo controlled study CDP870-08 was less relevant as only single and 
intravenous doses were administered. It did not demonstrate efficacy. 
•  Main studies  
Efficacy of certolizumab pegol was compared with placebo as “add-on” therapy in two phase III, 
multinational, multi-centre, double-blind, parallel group, 26 week placebo controlled studies. They 
were designed to demonstrate the efficacy of certolizumab pegol to induce (CDP70-031) and maintain 
(CDP870-032) clinical response in subjects with active Crohn's disease. Clinical remission was a 
predefined secondary endpoint. The group of patients with baseline CRP ≥ 10 mg/L was the primary 
efficacy population. The pivotal studies have been published as PRECISE 1 (CDP870-031; NEJM 
2007;357:228-38) and PRECISE 2 (CDP870-032; NEJM 2007;357:239-50). 
These two studies are presented together because of similarities in the study populations, dose and 
dose regimens: 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Study CDP870-031:  
The general inclusion criteria were those as described above (introduction to Clinical efficacy). 
Concomitant medical therapy was allowed including anti-diarrhoeas such as loperamide. Steroid dose 
should be no more than equivalent to 30 mg prednisolone or 9 mg budenoside and dose should have 
been stable for 2 weeks and should remain unchanged throughout week 8 after which time tapering 
was allowed. Steroid was to be tapered by 5 mg/week until 10 mg then by 2.5 mg/week, and 
budesonide by 3 mg/3 weeks. If exacerbation was entailed during tapering it was allowed to increase 
once the dose to that given at entry and this dose should be maintained throughout the remainder of the 
study. Immunnosuppressants were allowed if doses had been stable for at least 8 weeks and duration 
of treatment at least 4 months. 5-Aminosalicylates and long-term treatment with antibiotics were 
allowed if dose was stable for 4 weeks prior to randomisation. 
A summary of exclusion criteria related to concomitant therapy is given hereafter: 
20/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion Criteria for Class of Drug for Crohn's disease in Study CDP870-031  
Drug Class 
Exclusion Criteria 
Corticosteroid/Corticotrophin 
Azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, methotrexate, 
chronic (>4 weeks) antibiotic therapy 
•  Any therapy for indication other than Crohn's disease 
except for topical hydrocortisone for skin disease or ≤ 800 
µg/day inhaled beclomethasone, or equivalent, for asthma 
•  Parenteral therapy within 4 weeks of screening 
•  Discontinuation within 2 weeks of screening 
•  Discontinuation within 4 weeks of screening 
Cyclosporin, mycophenolate, thalidomide 
•  Regular treatment for Crohn's disease within 4 weeks of 
screening 
Previous treatment with anti-TNF therapy other than certolizumab pegol was allowed unless the 
subject had had a severe hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reaction or had no clinical response to the 
first dose.  Subjects who had received any biological therapies (within or outside of clinical studies) 
within 12 weeks prior to screening or were dosed in any clinical study within 4 weeks prior to 
screening were excluded. 
Other exclusion criteria were based on safety parameters such as chronic infections including a history 
of tuberculosis, concurrent malignancy, history of lymphoproliferative disorders, or uncontrolled 
systemic disease. 
Study CDP870-032: Except that all patients in this study received three doses of open label 
certolizumab, and thereafter were randomised to either placebo or certolizumab, the design was as for 
study CDP870-031; including identical initial recruitment criteria as in study CDP870-031. Patients 
not completing the study were followed up by telephone 12 weeks after the last dose of study drug. No 
major protocol amendments were made. 
For both trials, subjects were stratified at randomisation by three factors: 
• 
• 
• 
CRP <10 mg/L or ≥10 mg/L at study entry 
Receiving corticosteroids at study entry or not 
Receiving immunosuppressants at study entry or not 
Treatments and randomisation 
Study CDP870-031 
Eligible subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either placebo or 400 mg certolizumab 
pegol administered subcutaneously at Weeks 0, 2, 4, and then every 4 weeks at Weeks 8, 12, 16, 20, 
and 24. 
21/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CDAI score 
CDAI score 
220–450 points
220–450 points
N = 331
N = 331
Stratified for:
Stratified for:
– CRP <10 mg/L or >/=10 mg/L
– CRP <10 mg/L or >/=10 mg/L
– baseline immunosuppressants 
– baseline immunosuppressants 
N = 329
N = 329
and steroids
and steroids
Certolizumab pegol  400 mg
Certolizumab pegol  400 mg
3 induction doses, then every 4 weeks
3 induction doses, then every 4 weeks
Placebo
Placebo
Doses
Doses
Co-primary endpoint
Co-primary endpoint
Week 6
Week 6
Co-primary 
Co-primary 
endpoint 
endpoint 
Week 26 
Week 26 
Weeks
Weeks
0
0
2
2
4
4
6
6
Dosing every 4 weeks
Dosing every 4 weeks
26
26
A final study visit was scheduled at Week 26 for safety and efficacy evaluation.  Blood samples were 
taken at each study visit, prior to receiving certolizumab pegol on dosing visits, to measure 
certolizumab pegol plasma concentration and anti-certolizumab pegol antibodies. 
Study CDP870-032 
Patients demonstrating clinical response to subcutaneous injections of Certolizumab 400 mg at weeks 
0, 2, 4 were randomised at week 6 to either continued injections of Certolizumab 400 mg or placebo 
every four weeks from week 8 through week 24. 
N = 216
N = 216
CDP870 every 4 weeks
CDP870 every 4 weeks
Responders
Responders
N = 428
N = 428
CDAI score 
CDAI score 
220–450 points
220–450 points
N = 212
N = 212
Placebo every 4 weeks
Placebo every 4 weeks
Stratified for:
Stratified for:
– CRP <10 mg/L or >/=10 mg/L
– CRP <10 mg/L or >/=10 mg/L
– baseline steroids and                    
– baseline steroids and                    
immunosuppressants
immunosuppressants
Non-responders
Non-responders
N = 240
N = 240
Discontinue
Discontinue
Doses
Doses
Primary 
Primary 
endpoint 
endpoint 
Weeks 0
Weeks 0
2
2
4
4
6
6
8
8
12
12
16
16
20
20
24
24
26
26
Certolizumab pegol
Certolizumab pegol
Certolizumab pegol
open
open
open
induction phase
induction phase
induction phase
Define
Define
Define
Responders,
Responders,
Responders,
randomize
randomize
randomize
Randomized, blinded  
Randomized, blinded  
Randomized, blinded  
maintenance 
maintenance 
maintenance 
phase
phase
phase
Endpoints 
Study CDP870-031 
22/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The co-primary endpoints were the percentage of subjects with clinical response at Week 6 and at both 
Weeks 6 and 26 in the strata defined by CRP ≥10 mg/l at Baseline.  Secondary efficacy endpoints 
included assessment of clinical remission at Week 6 and at both Weeks 6 and 26 in subjects with 
Baseline CRP ≥10 mg/l, assessment of clinical response and remission irrespective of Baseline CRP 
levels (i.e., in the Overall population), percentage of subjects with IBDQ response at Week 6 and at 
both Weeks 6 and 26, and SF-36 sub-scores and change from baseline in SF-36 sub-scores for bodily 
pain and role physical at Weeks 6, 16, and 26 (Quality of Life measurements).  Clinical response was 
also recorded using HBI for subsequent analysis of long-term response in subjects who continued into 
the safety studies, CDP870-033 and CDP870-034.  
Study CDP870-032 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients remaining in clinical response at week 26 in 
patients with CRP ≥ 10 mg/l at baseline, week 0. Major secondary endpoints in the high CRP stratum 
were (a) time to disease progression defined as either an increase in CDAI > 100 above the value at 
week 6, or an absolute CDAI ≥ 175 at two consecutive visits at least 2 weeks apart, or the use of 
rescue therapy (steroids or immunosuppressants in individuals not on this therapy at baseline, use of 
infliximab, surgery or hospitalisation); (b) proportion in clinical remission at week 26; (c) proportion 
with IBDQ response > 16 points at week 26. Estimates of all four endpoints in the entire ITT 
population were other secondary end points. 
Sample size 
Study CDP870-031 
For clinical response at week 6, a placebo response of 30% and a clinically relevant difference 
between treatments of 25% was decided. For the week 6+26 endpoint a placebo response of 15% and a 
minimal clinically relevant difference of 15% were used. A two-sided level of significance of 5% and 
a power of 85% were used. The number of patients needed in each treatment arm was calculated to be 
151. Since this number of participants was wanted in each arm of the two CRP strata a total number 
604 patients were to be randomised. An additional 30% were to be screened (total 1006) to allow for 
screening failure. 
Study CDP870-032 
A placebo response rate of 25% at week 26 was assumed and a difference of 20% considered 
clinically relevant. With a level of statistical significance of 0.05 and a power of 80% for a two-sided 
test 98 patients in each arm was needed. Since this number was needed in both CRP strata giving four 
arms and a response rate of 55% during the initial open treatment period was expected a total of 712 
patients were to be included in the initial phase. It was estimated that 1186 patients were to be 
screened. 
Blinding (masking) –for both studies 
The active treatment and placebo matched in colour and viscosity. Blinding was maintained through 
the 26 weeks and no interim analysis performed. 
Statistical methods – for both studies 
Analysis was intention to treat. Analysis of primary efficacy parameter was logistical regression with 
factors for study treatment, steroid use at entry, use of immunosuppressants at entry and country or 
region. Tests were two-sided. Withdrawn patients were considered therapeutic failures. The interaction 
between treatment and subgroups was tested 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
23/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 976 patients were screened for participation in CDP70-031 and 662 were randomised. 
Among those, 660 received treatment since one patient was erroneously included into a stratum to 
which recruitment was already completed and one declined further participation. 
Of the 930 patients screened in CDP70-032, 262 were screening failures, 668 subjects received open 
label treatment. Among them, 240 were non-responders and 428 (64.1%) were in clinical response at 
Week 6 and received at least one double-blind treatment after randomization.  Of these 428 responders 
at Week 6, 425 were included in the Overall ITT population for analysis of efficacy. Three subjects 
from one site were excluded because of potential un-blinding to treatment assignment. 
Baseline characteristics are given in the following tables:  
Demographics and Baseline Characteristics of Overall ITT Population in Studies CDP870-031 and 
CDP870-032 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Number of subjects randomized 
328 
Age (years) 
n 
Mean (± SD) 
Median 
Min., Max. 
Gender 
Male 
Female 
Race 
331 
331 
210 
210 
215 
215 
328 
37.9 ± 12.0 
36.8 ± 11.8 
37.6 ± 12.1 
37.5 ± 11.2 
36.5 
18, 77 
36.0 
18, 73 
36.0 
18, 69 
36.0 
18, 67 
131 (39.9%) 
157 (47.4%) 
109 (51.9%) 
92 (42.8%) 
197 (60.1%) 
174 (52.6%) 
101 (48.1%) 
123 (57.2%) 
Caucasian 
313 (95.4%) 
313 (94.6%) 
191 (91.0%) 
202 (94.0%) 
Afro-Caribbean 
Asian (Indian) 
Asian (Oriental) 
American Indian 
Other 
Height (m) 
n 
Mean (± SD) 
Median 
Min., Max. 
Weight (kg) 
n 
0 
5 (1.5%) 
3 (1.4%) 
2 (0.6%) 
4 (1.9%) 
2 (0.6%) 
1 (0.5%) 
2 (0.9%) 
6 (2.8%) 
1 (0.5%) 
0 
1 (0.5%) 
0 
1 (0.3%) 
2 (0.6%) 
0 
12 (3.7%) 
9 (2.7%) 
10 (4/8%) 
4 (1.9%) 
328 
331 
210 
215 
1.7 ± 0.1 
1.7 ± 0.1 
1.7 ± 0.1 
1.7 ± 0.1 
1.7 
1.7 
1.7 
1.7 
1.5, 1.9 
1.5, 2.0 
1.5, 2.0 
1.5, 2.0 
328 
329 
210 
215 
24/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
68.6 ± 17.7 
68.7 ± 17.15 
72.1 ± 17.4 
68.7 ± 16.7 
66.0 
66.1 
67.9 
66.4 
38.4, 150.0 
37.0, 148.6 
43.5, 136.4 
33.3, 136.0 
328 
329 
210 
215 
23.8 ± 5.3 
23.8 ± 5.4 
24.5 ± 5.5 
23.7 ± 5.3 
22.7 
22.7 
23.1 
22.9 
14.7, 53.0 
13.2, 45.4 
15.7, 45.4 
13.5, 56.7 
149 (45.4%) 
156 (47.1%) 
98 (46.7%) 
91 (42.3%) 
Mean (± SD) 
Median 
Min., Max 
Body Mass Index (kg/m2) 
n 
Mean (± SD) 
Median 
Min., Max 
Smoking 
Never 
Stopped before CD diagnosis 
37 (11.3%) 
32 (9.7%) 
15 (7.1%) 
18 (8.4%) 
Stopped after CD diagnosis 
35 (10.7%) 
39 (11.8%) 
21 (10.0%) 
42 (19.5%) 
Current Smoker 
107 (32.6%) 
104 (31.4%) 
76 (36.2%) 
64 (29.8%) 
Geographic locations 
North America 
Western Europe 
Eastern Europe 
63 (19.2%) 
76 (23.0%) 
61 (29.1%) 
48 (22.3%) 
54 (16.4%) 
50 (15.1%) 
36 (17.1%) 
46 (21.4%) 
157 (47.9%) 
156 (47.1%) 
64 (30.5%) 
66 (30.7%) 
Rest of the World 
54 (16.5%) 
49 (14.8%) 
49 (23.3%) 
55 (25.6%) 
Summary of History of Crohn’s Disease in Overall ITT Population in Studies CDP870-031 and CDP870-
032 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab pegol 
400mg 
328 
331 
210 
215 
Number in Overall ITT 
Population 
Baseline CDAI Score 
N 
327 
329 
209 
215 
Mean (± SD) 
297 ± 62 
300 ± 64 
301 ± 61 
306 ± 61 
Median 
Min., Max. 
285.2 
287.7 
287.3 
296.5 
161, 513 
149, 491 
183, 583 
179, 504 
25/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab pegol 
400mg 
Duration of Crohn's disease (years) 
N 
327 
331 
210 
215 
Mean (± SD) 
7.7 ± 7.3 
7.2 ± 7.7 
7.3 ± 7.8 
8.6 ± 7.1 
Median 
Min., Max. 
5.5 
4.8 
4.5 
6.7 
0.2, 40.2 
0.3, 43.8 
0.3, 42.8 
0.3, 32.7 
Location of Crohn's disease  
Terminal Ileum 
82 (25.0%) 
91 (27.5%) 
49 (23.3%) 
45 (20.9%) 
Colon 
Ileocolon 
Upper GI 
Resections 
Yes 
No 
Number of Resections 
0 
1 
2 
3 
>3 
71 (21.6%) 
87 (26.3%) 
57 (27.1%) 
56 (26.0%) 
158 (48.2%) 
138 (41.7%) 
89 (42.4%) 
104 (48.4%) 
17 (5.2%) 
15 (4.5%) 
15 (7.1%) 
10 (4.7%) 
113 (34.5%) 
118 (35.6%) 
73 (34.8%) 
64 (29.8%) 
215 (65.5%) 
213 (64.4%) 
137 (65.2%) 
151 (70.2%) 
215 (65.5%) 
213 (64.4%) 
137 (65.2%) 
151 (70.2%) 
76 (23.2%) 
79 (23.9%) 
49 (23.3%) 
45 (20.9%) 
28 (8.5%) 
25 (7.6%) 
13 (6.2%) 
12 (5.6%) 
6 (1.8%) 
3 (0.9%) 
8 (2.4%) 
6 (1.8%) 
7 (3.3%) 
4 (1.9%) 
3 (1.4%) 
4 (1.9%) 
Summary of Previous Infliximab and Baseline Corticosteroid and Immunosuppressant Use in Studies 
CDP870-031 and CDP870-032 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab pegol 
400mg 
328 
331 
210 
215 
Number in Overall ITT 
Population 
Previous infliximab 
85 (25.9%) 
100 (32.2%) 
51 (24.3%) 
52 (24.2%) 
Baseline corticosteroids 
and immunosuppressants 
Corticosteroids only 
75 (22.9%) 
72 (21.8%) 
44 (21.0%) 
47 (21.9%) 
Immunosuppressants only 
66 (20.1%) 
69 (20.8%) 
52 (24.8%) 
59 (27.4%) 
26/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CDP870-031 
CDP870-032 
(Randomized Treatment) 
(Randomized Withdrawal) 
Placebo 
Certolizumab 
pegol 400mg 
Placebo 
Certolizumab pegol 
400mg 
55 (16.8%) 
57 (17.2%) 
34 (16.2%) 
28 (13.0%) 
Corticosteroids and 
Immunosuppressants 
Neither 
132 (40.2%) 
133 (40.2%) 
80 (38.1%) 
81 (37.7%) 
Results 
The main results for study CDP870-031 are shown below. 
Clinical Response in total ITT and CRP ≥ 10 mg/L Populations 
Week 6 
n  
Responded 
% 
(95% CI) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value (a) 
Week 26 
n  
Responded 
% 
(95% CI) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value (a) 
Weeks 6 and 26 
n  
Responded 
% 
325 
52 
16.0% 
ITT Population 
CRP ≥ 10 mg/L 
Placebo 
(N=328) 
Certolizumab  
(N=331) 
Placebo 
(N=156) 
Certolizumab 
(N=146) 
325 
87 
26.8% 
327 
115 
154 
40 
35.2% 
26.0% 
145 
54 
37.2% 
(22.0%, 31.8%) 
(30.0%, 40.3%) 
(19.0%, 32.9%) 
(29.4%, 45.1%) 
1.51 
(1.08, 2.11) 
0.016 
1.70 
(1.03, 2.80) 
0.037 
327 
87 
26.6% 
328 
122 
156 
30 
37.2% 
19.2% 
145 
47 
32.4% 
(21.8%, 31.4%) 
(32.0%, 42.4%) 
(13.0%, 25.4%) 
(24.8%, 40.0%) 
1.64 
(1.17, 2.30) 
0.004 
325 
75 
23.1% 
1.97 (1.16, 3.37)
0.013 
154 
19 
12.3% 
144 
31 
21.5% 
27/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(95% CI) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value (a) 
∆ CDAI 
Week 6 
(12.0%, 20.0%) 
(18.5%, 27.7%) 
(7.1%, 17.5%) 
(14.8%, 28.2%) 
1.58 
(1.06, 2.35) 
0.024 
1.91 
(1.02, 3.57) 
0.045 
-63 
-73 
-62 
-78 
(-325, 250) 
(-321, 263) 
(-325, 250) 
(-321, 263) 
Week 26 
-107 
-125 
-76 
-135 
(-348, 123) 
(-366, 80) 
(-340, 59) 
(-366, 76) 
p-values were calculated using logistic regression with factors for treatment, CRP strata, corticosteroid use at 
entry, immunosuppressant use at entry and geographical region. 
Median changes (range) in CDAI score from baseline differed only slightly between treatment groups 
further stressing the small differences and the likely large number of patients included with mild 
disease.  
The following Table shows the results for remission throughout the study period.   
Remission by study visit in CDP870-031 
No Previous Infliximab 
Overall Population 
Week 2 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 4 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 6 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 8 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 12 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 16 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 20 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 24 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Week 26 
Placebo 
(N=243) 
n=242 
21 (8.7%) 
n=242 
25 (10.3%) 
n=241 
46 (19.1%) 
n=241 
49 (20.3%) 
n=242 
51 (21.1%) 
n=243 
54 (22.2%) 
n=243 
49 (20.2%) 
n=243 
48 (19.8%) 
n=243 
CDP870 400 mg 
(N=231) 
n=231 
35 (15.2%) 
1.86 
(1.04, 3.32) 
n=230 
48 (20.9%) 
2.31 
(1.36, 3.92) 
n=230 
56 (24.3%) 
1.36 
 (0.87, 2.12) 
n=230 
65 (28.3%) 
1.55 
(1.01, 2.39) 
n=230 
72 (31.3%) 
1.69 
(1.11, 2.58) 
n=230 
69 (30.0%) 
1.48 
(0.97, 2.25) 
n=226 
61 (27.0%) 
1.46 
(0.94, 2.25) 
n=230 
71 (30.9%) 
1.80 
(1.17, 2.76) 
n=230 
Placebo 
(N=328) 
n=327 
27 (8.3%) 
n=327 
37 (11.3%) 
n=326 
57 (17.5%) 
n=326 
62 (19.0%) 
n=327 
65 (19.9%) 
n=328 
66 (20.1%) 
n=328 
62 (18.9%) 
n=328 
60 (18.3%) 
n=328 
CDP870 400 mg 
(N=331) 
n=330 
43 (13.0%) 
1.70 
(1.02, 2.84) 
n=329 
63 (19.1%) 
1.88 
 (1.21, 2.94) 
n=329 
71 (21.6%) 
1.31 
 (0.89, 1.94) 
n=330 
80 (24.2%) 
1.36 
(0.93, 1.98) 
n=328 
90 (27.4%) 
1.54 
(1.06, 2.22) 
n=329 
87 (26.4%) 
1.42 
(0.98. 2.06) 
n=325 
76 (23.4%) 
1.31 
(0.89, 1.92) 
n=330 
87 (26.4%) 
1.62  
(1.11, 2.35) 
n=329 
28/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
49 (20.2%) 
78 (33.9%) 
2.03  
(1.33, 3.10) 
60 (18.3%) 
97 (29.5%) 
1.90 
(1.31, 2.76) 
With respect to assessment of effect on induction treatment, the rate of remission at week 6 (primary 
endpoint) was not significantly different between groups. The observed difference between placebo 
and active treatment was 4.1%. Together with the modest, although statistically significant, effect on 
response at week 6 (observed difference of < 9%), these data severely questions the clinical relevance 
of the demonstrated difference between certolizumab and placebo with regard to induction treatment. 
For study CDP870-032, the main results were as follows: 
Clinical Response in Overall ITT and CRP ≥ 10 mg/L Populations 
ITT Population 
CRP ≥ 10 mg/L 
Placebo 
(N=210) 
Certolizumab  
(N=215) 
Placebo 
(N=101) 
Certolizumab 
(N=112) 
208 
198 
95.2% 
215 
203 
99 
96 
94.4% 
97.0% 
112 
108 
96.4% 
(92.3%, 98.1%) 
(91.4%, 97.5%) 
(93.0%, 99.8%) 
(93.0%, 99.9%) 
210 
76 
36.2% 
215 
135 
101 
34 
62.8% 
33.7% 
112 
69 
61.6% 
(29.7%, 42.7%) 
(56.3%, 69.3%) 
(24.4%, 42.9%) 
(52.6%, 70.6%) 
3.12 
(2.07, 4.69) 
<0.001 
208 
72 
34.6% 
215 
129 
99 
31 
60.0% 
31.3% 
3.30 
(1.83, 5.97) 
<0.001 
112 
66 
58.9% 
(28.2%, 41.1%) 
(53.5%, 66.5%) 
(22.2%, 40.4%) 
(49.8%, 68.0%) 
3.01 
(2.00, 4.54) 
<0.001 
3.40 
(1.86, 6.20) 
<0.001 
Week 6 (open phase) 
n  
Responded 
% 
(95% CI) 
Week 26 
n  
Responded 
% 
(95% CI) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value (a) 
Weeks 6 and 26 
n  
Responded 
% 
(95% CI) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value (a) 
(a)  p-values were calculated using logistic regression with factors for treatment, CRP strata, corticosteroid 
use at entry, immunosuppressant use at entry and geographical region. 
Response rates for both treatments at week 6 were higher than in study CDP870-031 as would be 
expected for an open label study. The loss of response was faster in the placebo group and the 
difference similar in both the high CRP stratum and in the total ITT population. The Kaplan-Meier 
29/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plot also demonstrated a difference in the probability for disease progression in favour of 
certolizumab. 
The results for maintenance of remission were similar with a significant effect of certolizumab. 
Remission at Week 26 in CDP870-031 and CDP870-032 
No Previous Infliximab 
Overall Population 
Study CDP870-031 
Placebo 
(N=243) 
n=243 
CDP870 
(N=230) 
n=230 
Placebo 
(N=328) 
n=328 
CDP870 
(N=331) 
n=329 
49 (20.2%) 
78 (33.9%) 
60 (18.3%) 
97 (29.5%) 
Week 26 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
Study 
CDP870-032 
Week 26 
Placebo 
(N=159) 
n=159 
53 (33.3%) 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
2.03 
(1.33, 3.10) 
CDP870 
(N=163) 
n=163 
86 (52.8%) 
2.26 
(1.42, 3.60) 
Placebo 
(N=210) 
n=210 
60 (28.6%) 
1.90 
(1.31, 2.76) 
CDP870 
(N=215) 
n=215 
103 (47.9%) 
2.44 
(1.61, 3.70) 
To conclude, the increment in remission at week 26 obtained with certolizumab in CDP870-032 is 
significant and clinically relevant, although the magnitude of effect cannot be assessed in this trial, due 
to its enrichment design. However, the efficacy demonstrated in CDP870-031 is not convincing, and 
there is thus not sufficient support for induction treatment.  
Ancillary analyses 
Sensitivity analyses were performed for both pivotal studies and demonstrated a higher response rate 
with certolizumab than with placebo. 
A total of 83 subjects in study CDP870-031 and 50 subjects in study CDP870-032 had neither 
received steroids nor immunosuppressants prior to inclusion. Less than 40% received 
immunosuppressants and approximately one third had never been on immunosuppressants. Thus 
treatment of a significant number of patients was not optimised before entry into the studies, and they 
were not truly refractory to these agents. The low rate of treatment with immunosuppressants is 
particularly worrisome as this is state of the art in Crohn’s disease patients with persistent or recurrent 
inflammatory activity. The response rate to certolizumab was higher in those receiving concomitant 
steroids or immunosuppressants in comparison with those who had previously received these agents 
possibly indicating a steroid sparing effect of certolizumab, or a less treatment resistant population. 
This notion cannot be examined further in the studies in which steroid tapering was allowed at the 
discretion of the investigator. The subgroup analysis did not provide data on treatment naïve patients. 
In the higher CRP strata, response rates were higher with certolizumab whereas the rates of remission 
were lower, while for the placebo group, the response rates were similar and rates of remission lower. 
With respect to induction and maintenance of remission, the efficacy of certolizumab was only slightly 
higher than with placebo. By contrast, efficacy tended to be lower with more severe disease whether 
defined by high CRP or by classification as penetrating disease. 
A comparison of remission obtained at week 4 (at which time the placebo effect was particularly low 
in study CDP870-005) with other approved anti-TNFα therapies, in particular infliximab was 
performed: 
30/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of remission data at week 4 for certolizumab, infliximab and adalimumab.  
Remission at week 4 
CDP870-005 
CDP870-031 
Infliximab 
Adalimumab, 80/40 mg 
Adalimumab, 160/80 mg 
Pl 
8.2%  (6/73) 
11.3%  (37/327) 
4%  (1/24) 
12%  (9/74) 
12% 
Active 
22.2%  (16/72) 
19.1%  (63/329) 
48%  (13/27) 
24%  (18/75) 
36% (27/76) 
•  Other supportive studies 
Long term efficacy data were obtained from the open extension study CDP870-033 to which patients 
from the pivotal studies qualified at week 26 given they had received active treatment with 
certolizumab and obtained response or remission. Patients were given certolizumab 400 mg every four 
weeks for up to 152 weeks. An interim report includes data on all patients through 12 months of 
treatment. A total of 595 of 1084 patients entering the pivotal studies entered CDP870-033 and 391 
completed at least 12 months treatment. The interim analysis gives data on patients randomised to 
certolizumab in the pivotal studies only, n = 331 (from CDP870-031) + 215 (from CDP870-032) = 
546, of whom 250 appears to have entered CDP870-033. Withdrawal rate in CDP870-033 was 34% 
and mostly due to increase in disease activity. 
Study CDP870-033 used the validated Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) as measure of disease activity. 
A reduction of CDAI of 100 points corresponded to a decrease in HBI score of 3.28 points and 
remission (CDAI > 150) to a HBI of 4.46. A reduction of HBI of ≤ 3 points from baseline HBI at entry 
into the qualifying study was defined as the HBI response and an absolute score of ≤ 4 points or less in 
the HBI scale was defined as remission. 
The results of the interim analysis for the overall ITT population were: 
Time points from start of 031 or 032 
Week 26 
Week 52 
Week 80 
Time points from start of 031 or 032 
Week 26 
Week 52 
Week 80 
CDP870-031 
Certolizumab 
N=331 
129 (39%) 
103 (31%) 
94 (28%) 
CDP870-031 
Certolizumab 
N=331 
88 (27%) 
80 (24%) 
76 (23%) 
HBI response 
HBI remission 
CDP870-032 
Certolizumab 
N=215 
121 (56%) 
97 (45%) 
86 (40%) 
CDP870-032 
Certolizumab 
N=215 
103 (48%) 
88 (41%) 
78 (36%) 
The long term efficacy data from study CDP870-033 were obtained in an open uncontrolled study. 
The dropout rate was high, and the data suggest a decline of the effect with time. While the efficacy 
data for long term maintenance of remission do not suffice, the study provided relevant safety data. 
•  Effect of anti-certolizumab antibodies  
In (Studies CDP870-031 and CDP870-032), the overall percentage of antibody-positive subjects was  
(8%) in subjects continuously exposed to certolizumab pegol. Antibody generation was lower in those 
using concomitant immunosuppressants (3.3% across both studies) compared to those who were not 
31/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(11.2% across both studies) but was similar, irrespective of corticosteroid use (7.4% and 8.5% across 
both studies for those using and not using concomitant corticosteroids, respectively). Concerning the 
development of anti-certoluzimab- antibodies, there seems to be no impact of prior anti-TNFα therapy.  
Among subjects who were antibody positive (cut-off value of 2.4 units/ml), approximately 80% had 
antibodies with neutralizing activity.  
No difference could be seen in the percentage of responders in the certolizumab treatment group 
between antibody positive and antibody negative populations. This finding is maintained even when 
the cut-off is lowered to 0.6 units/ml 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Although generally acceptable and clinically relevant, the methods used and the criteria for inclusion 
in the pivotal trials were problematic. Some patients were included without a prior course of steroids 
and/or immunosuppressants of sufficient dose and duration to justify the labelling of “add-on” therapy. 
In addition, the stratification for CRP level was decided based on study CDP870-005 in which the 
different outcome related to CRP level was detected in a post-hoc exploratory analysis. The CRP level 
has been shown to correlate with the CDAI score and to signs and markers of disease activity, 
including findings at endoscopy and radiology. CRP correlated to mild to moderate disease activity 
but not to severe activity and Odds-ratio for any disease activity provided in one study was only 2 
(0.7-7.0). In relation to the design of the pivotal studies, the point is that normal CRP does not rule out 
even severe activity and CRP is a non-specific marker of inflammation. These facts are the most 
probable explanation why the association found in the phase II study was not apparent in the pivotal 
studies. It is acknowledged that the study had the power for analysis of both populations and the 
results for the total ITT population and the high CRP level subgroup are similar. 
With respect to assessment of effect on induction treatment in study 031, the rate of remission at week 
6 (primary endpoint) was not significantly different between groups. The observed difference between 
placebo and active treatment was 4.1%. Together with the modest, although statistically significant, 
effect on response at week 6 (observed difference of < 9%), these data do not support demonstration of 
clinical relevance.   
No subgroup of patients with Crohn’s disease was identified with a particular effect of certolizumab. 
Clinical effect and differences between treatments were less in patients with prior usage of infliximab 
and not statistically significant. The results were robust, but the clinical relevance unclear, and the 
blinded observation period too short for the indication of long-term maintenance of remission. 
Furthermore, the positive effect of maintenance treatment only indicates that it is beneficial with 
prolonged treatment in subjects responding to therapy in the first 6 weeks. One further major problem 
with the maintenance studies is the lack of placebo control after week 26. The ‘Points to consider’ 
document clearly recommends that the primary endpoint for maintenance treatment should be 
maintenance of remission throughout 12 months. Controlled results for maintenance treatment over 12 
months were previously obtained for other anti-TNF agents, indicated for treatment of Crohn’s 
Disease. The open extension study does not suffice for this, and thus no sufficient evidence of long 
term efficacy has been provided. 
Sustained remission throughout the study period is the most robust and clinically relevant parameter. 
An effect is demonstrated in CDP870-032 in a selected population while the treatment effect on 
remission in week 6 and week 26 in CDP870-031 is small and clinically not relevant. 
CDP870-031 
Remission  
Week 6 and 26 
Placebo 
n=326 
32 
(9.8%) 
CDP870 
n=327 
47 
(14.4%) 
32/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since an effect on maintenance is only beneficial in subjects demonstrating response to open label 
induction therapy in the first 6 weeks at which time the efficacy in terms of remission is not 
considered clinically relevant based on results from study 031, where magnitude of effect can be 
assessed, the data are difficult to interpret and even more difficult to translate into a treatment 
algorithm. 
Although efficacy is not readily comparable between different anti-TNFα agents due to difference 
with regards to study design and definitions of response, the observed differences between placebo 
and active treatment for the approved anti-TNFα agents in this indication appear more robust than the 
results for certoluzimab, particularly for induction treatment. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The main data are those derived from the randomized, placebo-controlled studies in patients with 
Crohn’s disease and the open follow-up studies CDP870-033 and 034. Supportive data stem from 
open studies, studies in healthy volunteers and studies in rheumatoid arthritis. The number of patients 
exposed to any certolizumab dose was 3654. The safety base included more than 600 Crohn’s disease 
patients treated with certolizumab for one year and more than 300 treated for up to two years. Placebo 
exposure was 26 weeks at most. The serious adverse events database includes all reports up to 
31.12.2006 for all indications.  
Patients were considered as being to be exposed for 28 days after the last dose. The pooled Crohn’s 
disease population included 1564 unique subjects. A total of 611 subjects were exposed to 
certolizumab for at least one year. The estimated patient year exposure was almost 10-fold longer for 
certolizumab (1379 patient years) than for placebo (142 patient years). 
33/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject disposition for Crohn’s disease was as shown in the table below. 
•  Adverse events  
All adverse events were treatment emergent including events that worsened since baseline.  
34/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The majority of adverse events were mild to moderate. 
The most common adverse event was exacerbation of Crohn’s disease reported by 21% on 
certolizumab and 11% on placebo. The corresponding incidence rate calculation demonstrated a lower 
incidence with certolizumab (294/1000 patient years) as compared to placebo (374/1000 patient 
years). Several infections were reported at a rate of at least 2% higher in the certolizumab group as 
was abdominal pain, arthralgia, anxiety, and rash. Injection site pain was more common in the placebo 
group. 
•  Serious adverse events / deaths / other significant events 
The number of treatment emergent serious adverse events is given in the table. 
35/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no deaths in healthy volunteers or compassionate use program up to the cut-off date. 
Comparisons were based on estimated exposure in patient years – thus found to be 11-fold longer for 
certolizumab.   
There were 11 deaths in the Crohn’s disease studies, all in patients receiving certolizumab with an 
incidence of 11/1630 = 6 per 1,000.  Eight of these deaths ere considered unrelated or unlikely related 
to treatment and two deaths occurred more than 12 weeks after study participation. 
Infections 
Serious adverse events due to infections were reported by 8% of patients treated with certolizumab as 
compared to 1% of those given placebo. Due to the longer exposure to certolizumab the incidence rate 
was 52 per 1000 patient years for placebo and 73 for certolizumab, and the relative risk associated 
with certolizumab was 1.4. There were four fatal infectious events, all associated with certolizumab 
treatment. These were due to pneumonias, sepsis and in one case a pneumocystis infection. 
The frequency of sepsis, bacteraemia and viraemia was 0.5% and 0.4% in RA and CD for subjects 
exposed to certolizumab as compared to 0.2% for placebo, whereas the calculated incidence rates were 
slightly higher in the placebo groups. 
The incidence rate for tuberculosis was 5/1000 patient years in CD and 7/1000 in RA Tuberculosis 
was reported in the certolizumab group only. One quarter of these infections were disseminated but 
there were no fatalities. Median time to onset of tuberculosis was 263 days, and three cases developed 
more than 220 days after the last certolizumab administration.   
Gastrointestinal complications 
The absolute percentage of subjects experiencing intestinal abscess (3.5% vs. 1.1%) and each of the 
other selected categories of serious gastrointestinal complications of Crohn’s disease (exacerbation 
[9.3% vs. 4.7%], intestinal obstruction-stenosis-ileus [2.9% vs. 0.9%], perforation [0.2% vs. 0.0%], 
bleeding [0.3% vs. 0.0%], fistula [0.5% vs. 0.2%] and cancer [0.3% vs. 0.0%]) is higher on 
certolizumab than on placebo. Some patients reported the same event repeatedly. Taking relative 
duration of exposure into account, the incidence rate of serious adverse events of Crohn's disease 
exacerbation and intestinal fistula were lower on certolizumab than placebo, while the incidence rate 
of the other categories of complications (intestinal abscess [44.2 vs. 35.2 per 1,000 Patient-Years], 
obstruction/stenosis/ileus [36.3 vs 28.2 per 1,000 Patient-Years], perforation [2.9 vs 0 per 1,000 
Patient-Years] , bleeding [3.6 vs. 0 per 1,000 Patient-Years] and cancer [36.3 vs 0 per 1000 Patient-
Years]) were higher on active drug than placebo.   
Cardiovascular events 
36/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease, rheumatoid arthritis and the global safety databases were searched. One of four 
serious adverse events related to cardiac ischemia in the placebo group died in comparison with 10 of 
35 in the certolizumab group. The events occurred on average 386 days after start of treatment with 
certolizumab and 54 days after start of placebo. The majority of patients had strong predispositions 
and rheumatoid arthritis, and the majority of cases were rated as unrelated to trial treatment. The 
calculated incidence rates (events per 1000 Patient-Years) were slightly higher in the placebo group: 
8/1000 PY (active) vs. 10/1,000 PY (placebo). Cardiac failure was reported in 9 subjects on 
certolizumab of which 3 were fatal, and there were no events in placebo.  
Malignancies 
Reports of skin papillomas were reported in patients given certolizumab only (5 events in pooled 
analysis) and a relationship with treatment could not be ruled out. 
Other malignancies were reported for 39 patients given certolizumab and three given placebo.  Small 
intestine carcinoma –a rare tumour- was encountered in 3 patients receiving certolizumab. 
Given the 11-fold longer duration of exposure to certolizumab there was a slightly higher incidence 
rate associated with certolizumab (0.95/1000) in comparison with placebo (0.78/1000). 
•  Laboratory findings 
For subjects in the Crohn’s Disease Population, mean and median values for major hematology 
parameters at baseline were comparable in the certolizumab pegol 400 mg and placebo groups. 
Coagulation time prolonged is listed in the proposed SPC as an uncommon event. Serious adverse 
events related to prolonged clotting time occurred in 19 subjects on certolizumab as compared to none 
given placebo. In the placebo controlled phases of the RA and Crohn’s disease programmes, there 
were 5 and 4 serious adverse events related to prolonged clotting time, which raises concern and need 
to be elucidated through further data analyses 
•  Safety in special populations 
Certolizumab pegol has not been studied in the pediatric population. Limited safety and efficacy data 
are available for elderly subjects with CD but population PK analysis showed no effect of age. The 
proposed SPC advises caution when using certolizumab pegol in elderly (≥65 years) subjects. 
Only limited data are provided on pregnancy (13 events).  Due to its inhibition of TNF-α, 
certolizumab pegol administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune responses in the 
newborn.    
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Treatment emergent adverse events leading to withdrawal are summarised in the table. The figures 
may exceed the number of unique subjects (n=1277) because patients could participate in both 
controlled and uncontrolled trials. The rate of withdrawals was similar in placebo and certolizumab 
groups in the placebo controlled trials.  
37/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal rates were high and infections leading to withdrawal and/or antibiotic treatment were 
more common in patients treated with certolizumab. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall the safety profile of certolizumab appeared largely comparable with that of other anti-TNFα 
agents, although an increased risk for bleeding events has not been identified as a class effect. 
In analysing the data, caution is warranted.  The incidence rates of each event type were compared for 
certolizumab and placebo both in relation to number of patients affected and to duration of exposure. 
The method of estimating a patient exposure incidence is acknowledged and substantiated as an 
attempt to overcome the vast difference in drug exposure. However, this method could 
overcompensate and actually eliminate differences which would otherwise appear evident. 
Withdrawal rates were high and infections leading to withdrawal and/or antibiotic treatment were 
more common in patients treated with certolizumab.  The findings of an increased risk of serious 
infectious (and other) complications when treating patients with Crohn’s disease with certolizumab are 
worrisome. 
38/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In line with other anti-TNFα medicinal products, patients exposed to certolizumab have an increased 
risk of developing tuberculosis. 
In addition, an increased risk for bleeding was encountered. There were higher numbers of SAEs 
reflecting bleeding events in both the RA and CD populations (4 and 5 cases compared with none in 
the placebo groups during the placebo controlled studies), which raises concern. It is suggested that 
this might be related to the PEG component.  
Certolizumab may cause both cardiac ischemia and cardiac failure in predisposed patients. The fact 
that such events were rare among Crohn’s disease patients in comparison with rheumatoid arthritis 
may partly reflect predisposition of the latter patient population and partly the fact that those included 
into the Crohn’s disease studies were younger. An increased risk may be anticipated in clinical 
practice outside clinical trials. 
As expected, there is a slight increase of the malignancy rate also when observed cases were related to 
duration of exposure. The applicant has summarised the malignancies from the clinical trials and 
compassionate use programs with cetrolizumab in Crohn’s disease. When comparing to figures of 
incidence rates in the general population, the number of small intestinal cancers appears increased; a 
tumour form which is rare. Although the available data are limited and no firm conclusions can be 
drawn, this finding raises concern. 
Deaths were reported more common among patients receiving certolizumab. The majority of these 
resulted from cardiac events and others resulted from serious infections. Further analysis revealed that 
a number of deaths were most probably related to massive immunosuppression. 
2.5   Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application was of the opinion that it was not 
appropriate to consider risk minimisation activities at this time. 
2.6   Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the information provided in the application demonstrated consistent batch-to-batch 
production of CIMZIA achieving a consistent quality for the drug substance and the drug product. The 
manufacturing processes for the drug substance, Certolizumab pegol and the drug product are 
adequately controlled and validated. The drug substance has been extensively characterised with 
regard to its physicochemical and biological characteristics using state-of the-art methods. In addition, 
the viral safety and the safety concerning other adventitious agents (including TSE) have been 
sufficiently assured. However, a major concern regarding the control of product purity remains and 
needs to be sufficiently addressed in order to ensure that the quality of the to be marketed medicinal 
product will be comparable to product on which the marketing authorisation application is based on. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
39/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical data revealed no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. There are no studies on the carcinogenic 
potential of certolizumab pegol. As regards reproductive potential adverse effects, pre-clinical 
reproductive studies of certolizumab pegol provided some support for lack of reproductive and 
developmental toxicity but  they are insufficient for recommendations on the use in women of child 
bearing potential and in pregnancy.  There is insufficient information on the excretion of certolizumab 
pegol in human or animal breast milk.   
Efficacy 
Induction therapy in the intended indication 
This application contains one phase III study, CDP870-031, where the possibility to induce remission 
is investigated. In this study, Certolizumab pegol was statistically significantly better than placebo, but 
the magnitude of the effect is not convincing (+8-10% responders at week 6 and 26). Certolizumab 
induced neither a statistically nor a clinically relevant rate of remission at week 6. The rate of 
remission obtained at week 4 was significantly higher than that obtained with placebo but the effect 
was less than that obtained with infliximab and with the higher induction dose of adalimumab. In 
Study CDP-032, the absolute difference between active treatment and placebo following induction 
treatment was, as expected larger, given the design of this trial. However, due to the initial open label 
design, it cannot provide information on the magnitude of the effect of induction therapy. These 
circumstances in combination, i.e. the small difference in relation to clinical response compared to 
placebo and the negative result for remission lead to the conclusion that efficacy with regard to 
induction treatment is insufficient. 
Maintenance therapy in the intended indication 
Considering maintenance treatment, the second phase-3 study, CDP870-032, provides support for an 
effect, as it demonstrates an effect of continued treatment in patients initially responding to open label 
induction therapy with CDP-870. In study CDP870-031, the results at week 26, as well as at week 6, 
showed an effect of active treatment in comparison with placebo. However, the rates of remission at 
week 6 and 26 in study CDP870-031 were not statistically significant. Efficacy was not affected by the 
initial CDAI score and not related to baseline CRP level, but was less in patients with more severe 
disease. The 26 week data can not be easily transformed into a treatment algorithm. Furthermore, the 
clinical relevance of the demonstrated efficacy has not been documented. A number of patients has not 
had a therapeutic attempt with steroids and/or immunosuppressants and were in fact treatment naïve 
when entered into the certolizumab pegol studies. 
Moreover, there were no placebo controlled efficacy data beyond six months in either of the pivotal 
studies. Since the open trial data do not suffice to document long term efficacy, long term efficacy 
remains to be demonstrated. Controlled results for maintenance treatment over 12 months have been 
demanded and provided by the approved anti-TNF agents for this indication.  
The long term data from study CDP870-033 were obtained in an open uncontrolled study. The dropout 
rate was high, and the data suggest a decline of the effect with time. Even though this study provides 
relevant safety data, efficacy can not be assessed.  
Safety 
Updated safety data with follow-up in a substantial number patients for at least one year identified 
several serious concerns. Overall the safety profile of certolizumab appeared in large compatible with 
that of other anti-TNFα agent. This relates in particular to a higher risk of serious infections, including 
gastrointestinal abscesses in the Crohn’s disease population. Additional signals were a high rate of 
disease exacerbation, other complications to Crohn’s disease and cardial events including deaths. 
Patients in study CDP870-032 were initially exposed to certolizumab, a fact which could question the 
validity of the global comparison of adverse events in the placebo controlled trials. In addition, there 
were no placebo controlled safety data beyond 6 months. 
40/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certolizumab treatment was associated with an increased risk of intestinal obstruction and 
complications. Although a causal relation was not revealed it would appear that continued medical 
treatment when surgical intervention may have been indicated is one factor involved. The results 
indicate that more severe adverse events occur in the more ill patients. All deaths in Crohn’s patients 
occurred in those treated with certolizumab and none in the placebo group. Impaired immune reaction 
could have been implicated in a few of the deaths of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The applicant 
has summarised the malignancies from the clinical trials and compassionate use programs with 
cetrolizumab in Crohn’s disease. When comparing to figures of incidence rates in the general 
population, the number of small intestinal cancers appears increased; a tumour form which is rare. 
Although the available data are limited, and no firm conclusions can be drawn, this finding raises 
concern. The higher number of SAEs reflecting bleeding events in both CD and RA populations (4 
and 5 cases compared with none in the placebo groups during the placebo controlled studies) raises 
concern and needs to be elucidated through further data analyses. 
•  User consultation 
A readability test (technical readability/traceability/comprehensibility/applicability) including scoring 
has  been  performed  on  the  English  version  of  the  Patient  Information  Leaflet  (PIL).  It  can  be 
concluded that the present user test is not acceptable as it was not designed to achieve its goal to assess 
readability, to diagnose weaknesses and to make recommendations and enhance readability.  
Risk-benefit assessment 
The therapeutic effect is not considered clinically relevant, neither for induction or maintenance of 
remission, when put in relation to the safety profile of certolizumab. The risks associated with 
certolizumab treatment were substantial and contests the marginal efficacy on disease activity 
demonstrated in the pivotal studies. Safety issues in relation to an increased risk of bleeding remain 
unsolved. Furthermore, there are no controlled 12 month data to show sustained response beyond 6 
months. 
On the Quality part, major concerns regarding the control of product purity remain and need to be 
resolved in order to ensure that the quality of the to be marketed product will be comparable to product 
on which the marketing authorisation application is based on.   
Therefore, the benefit/risk relation remains unfavourable for certolizumab pegol. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that it was not appropriate to consider risk minimisation activities at this time. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of CIMZIA in:  
the treatment of severe, active Crohn’s disease in patients who have not responded despite a full and 
adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant or who are intolerant to 
or have medical contraindications for such therapies  
was unfavourable and therefore did not recommend the granting of the marketing authorisation for the 
following reasons:  
•  A major concern regarding the control of product purity and integrity remains. Specifications 
of  the  drug  substance/product  need  to  be  set  and  the  specification  for  the  drug 
substance/product  monomer  needs  to  be  tightened.  Further  all  species  resolved  in  the  purity 
analysis should be identified; 
41/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
•  The  results  in  study  CDP870-031  have  not  demonstrated  a  clinically  relevant effect  with 
respect to induction treatment; 
•  The lack of 12 months controlled data on maintenance treatment; 
•  The safety profile of an anti-TNF agent, including the increased risk for infections as well as 
severe  infections,  and  considerable  uncertainties  related  to  long-term  safety,  including 
increased risk for malignancy raise major concern. In addition, there is a signal of increased 
risk of serious events possibly suggestive of a prolongation in clotting time. 
3  RE-EXAMINATION OF THE CHMP OPINION OF 15 NOVEMBER 
2007 
Following the CHMP conclusion that the risk/benefit balance of CIMZIA in the treatment of severe, 
active Crohn’s disease in patients who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of 
therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an immunosuppressant or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies, was unfavourable, the applicant submitted detailed grounds for 
the re-examination of the refusal.  
The applicant presented a number of arguments regarding the grounds for refusal. 
Ground for refusal 1: 
•  A major concern regarding the control of product purity and integrity remains. Specifications 
of the drug substance/product need to be set and the specification for the drug 
substance/product monomer needs to be tightened. Further all species resolved in the purity 
analysis should be identified.  
Applicant’s position: 
Drug Substance and Drug Product Specifications  
Based on the purity characteristics of the product used in clinical trials, the specifications are proposed 
to monitor and control purity of CDP870 Drug Substance and Drug Product routinely through four 
orthogonal approaches, all of which reflect clinical experience. Furthermore, the proposed limit for 
control of product monomer is tightened. In addition, all species resolved in the purity analysis are 
identified. 
These specifications have therefore been set within sufficiently tight limits to ensure that the product 
intended for market will be entirely comparable in terms of purity criteria with batches used in clinical 
trials and, therefore, with the product as presented in the marketing authorization application. The 
applicant intends to continue to monitor the data on an on-going basis to ensure compatibility of 
specification with on-going manufacturing experience. 
CHMP position: 
For the assessment, data that were presented at the oral hearing at BWP meeting on 9 October 2007 
and that were included in the applicant’s application for re-examination were taken into account. 
Drug Substance and Drug Product Specifications  
The drug substance and drug product specifications have been set based on clinical trial batches. The 
proposed tests and limits are considered appropriate, and the data provided show a good batch to batch 
consistency of these attributes.  
Identification of all species resolved in the purity assay 
42/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant identified all species and clarified that the apparent discrepancy is based on an inherent 
baseline noise. The applicant’s response is acceptable and correcting for this additional integration is 
necessary for estimation of purity. 
Ground for refusal 2: 
•  The results in study CDP870-031 have not demonstrated a clinically relevant effect with 
respect to induction treatment. 
Applicant’s position: 
The applicant argues that certolizumab pegol shows clinically relevant efficacy as induction treatment 
since: 
−  Results from CDP870-031 show that a statistically greater percentage of subjects respond to 
certolizumab pegol compared to placebo at week 6 and continued to respond at week 26. 
−  Clinically relevant effect on induction was demonstrated at early time points (weeks 2, 4, and 6) in 
CDP870-031 and CDP870-005. 
−  Results from CDP870-031 and CDP870-005 demonstrate a consistent treatment effect on 
induction of remission. 
−  The clinical relevance to induce remission in CDP870-005 and CDP870-031 shows similarity to 
− 
results reported for adalimumab. 
In a subpopulation of subjects with severe disease, the treatment effect of certolizumab pegol to 
induce remission at week 6 and at earlier time points in CDP870-031 is clinically relevant. 
−  Supportive evidence on induction is provided from the open-label phase of CDP870-032.1 
In more detail, the applicant states that the results from the two placebo-controlled studies, CDP870-
005 and CDP870-031, have consistently shown that certolizumab pegol is an effective treatment in 
subjects with active Crohn's disease. The Phase III study, CDP870-031, is unique in that it was 
designed to evaluate the efficacy of certolizumab pegol through 26 weeks of continuous therapy. The 
study met its pre-defined co-primary endpoints which were to demonstrate a significant difference in 
the percentages of subjects in clinical response at Week 6 and at both weeks 6 and 26. 
The study design of CDP870-031 allowed for assessment of certolizumab pegol as induction treatment 
because of the Week 6 time point. At week 6, 35.2% and 26.8% of subjects receiving certolizumab 
pegol and placebo, respectively, were in clinical response [OR=1.51 (1.08, 2.11) p=0.016]. The 
applicant assumed that the CHMP’s questioning of the clinical relevance of the magnitude of the 
observed difference in remission between treatment groups might be due to comparison with results 
achieved with other TNF antagonists, and stated that this might not be appropriate since the study 
designs are not comparable. Comparisons were considered valid between certolizumab pegol and 
adalimumab when referring to studies CDP870-005/CPD870-031 and CLASSIC-I, respectively, and 
similarity with regard to remission at week 4 was claimed.  
In addition, support for certolizumab pegol to induce response is provided from CDP870-032, where 
428/668 (64.1%) of subjects responded to open-label certolizumab pegol. Response to open-label 
400 mg certolizumab pegol induction therapy in the study population was claimed to be consistent 
with data reported for 5 mg infliximab in ACCENT I (58%) and 80/40 mg adalimumab in CHARM 
(58%), supporting clinical relevance of certolizumab pegol as induction therapy.  
Finally, analyses of response and remission in subpopulations of subjects by disease severity show that 
subjects with severe disease consistently experienced benefit from certolizumab pegol induction 
therapy. In all analyses, a greater percentage of subjects receiving certolizumab pegol had response or 
remission compared to placebo during the induction period. The treatment effect for response and 
remission was particularly notable in subjects with a Baseline CDAI score ≥ 335. 
1 In addition, new data from study CDP870-042 was presented, however the applicant and the assessors/experts 
were reminded that this was not admissible in the re-examination procedure. 
43/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The applicant concludes that available clinical data confirm the efficacy of certolizumab pegol to 
induce remission. The magnitude of the effect at week 4 in two placebo-controlled studies, CDP870-
005 and CDP870-031, is comparable to other approved anti-TNF therapies and supports the 
conclusion that induction of remission seen in the two studies is clinically relevant. In addition, 
induction of remission has been demonstrated in subjects with severe Crohn’s disease. 
CHMP position: 
In the pivotal study CDP870-031 the primary endpoint was defined as percentage of subjects with 
clinical response at Week 6 and at both Weeks 6 and 26 in the strata defined by CRP ≥10 mg/l at 
baseline, with response being defined as reduction in CDAI ≥ 100. It is acknowledged that in this 
study the response in patients with CRP ≥ 10 mg/l at week 6 is statistically significant with p = 0.037 
as well as at weeks 6 + 26 with p = 0.045. 
However, the applicant has chosen to focus its primary analysis 1/ on the response rate (instead of 
remission rate), and 2/ to a subgroup of patients with CRP> 10 mg/l at baseline. Even if the response 
rate can be regarded as having some value in clinical practice, it remains that the main goal of 
treatment in clinical practice is the achievement of remission, as currently recommended in the EU 
guideline.  
In the pivotal study CDP-870-031 induction of remission is only a secondary endpoint. No statistical 
difference is observed over the placebo arm on this particularly relevant endpoint (neither in the 
subgroup of patients with CRP>10 mg/l nor on the overall population). It should be noted that 
exploratory results in terms of remission at week 6 were provided in the phase II study CDP-870-005, 
but no statistically significant difference between CPZ and placebo was found. In addition, the 
restriction of the primary analysis to those patients having a CRP>10 mg/l at baseline to select the 
most severe patients is not considered convincing since the specificity of this criterion is not 
established.  
The results of the primary analysis (i.e. induction of response at week 6 and 6+26) are not regarded as 
convincing neither in term of effect size nor with regard to their consistency as explored using 
sensitivity analyses. The magnitude of the treatment response is around 10% in the subgroup of 
patients with CRP>10 mg/l and even lower in the overall population. Moreover, the results only 
remains statistically significant when considering patients with missing data as non responders but 
they are no longer statistically significant when considering the observed data only (neither when 
best/worst case was applied even if recognized as the most conservative approach). 
The applicant has provided several exploratory analyses particularly of CDP870-031 in an attempt to 
further substantiate the benefit of the drug and to allow for further comparisons also with other TNF 
antagonists. However, these analyses can in no way compensate for the limitations of the efficacy 
demonstration and could only serve for planning future confirmatory studies. Of note that the 
comparison of trial results for other anti-TNF agents has several caveats (different designs, study 
population etc), and particularly the analyses for a sub-group, made post-hoc, cannot be considered 
robust evidence and have to be interpreted together with other results. 
The CHMP consulted an ad-hoc expert group to address the question whether the co-primary endpoint 
chosen by the applicant in the pivotal study CDP-870-031 is adequate for a proper assessment of the 
benefit of the proposed medicinal product. The experts concluded that the chosen co-primary endpoint 
was relevant but that nevertheless a statistical and clinically relevant difference over the placebo arm 
should have been demonstrated in term of induction of remission. Furthermore, the choice to restrict 
the population for assessment to those with CRP ≥ 10 mg/l was regarded as inappropriate since CRP – 
although a useful follow-up tool for predicting response – cannot be used to select patients in need of 
therapy. 
44/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ground for refusal 3: 
•  The lack of 12 months controlled data on maintenance treatment. 
Applicant’s position: 
The applicant acknowledged the deviation from the applicable EU guideline, which requires at least 
12 months controlled data on maintenance of remission, and justified the lack of this data as follows: 
−  Clinically relevant maintenance of remission is demonstrated at 26 weeks (6 months) in the 
randomized withdrawal maintenance study, CDP870-032. 
−  Clinically relevant maintenance of remission at Week 26 was also demonstrated in the placebo-
controlled treatment study, CDP870-031. 
−  Continuing effectiveness of certolizumab pegol treatment to maintain clinical remission to 52 
weeks and beyond has been shown in subjects who completed the qualifying studies and 
continued to receive CZP in the open-label study CDP870-033. 
−  Available placebo-controlled studies with two anti-TNF agents, infliximab and adalimumab, show 
that loss of response occurs mainly in the first 6 months with minimal change in the treatment 
effect with an additional 6 month controlled period.  
−  Results from statistical modeling of data from CDP870-032 accurately predicts response and 
remission equivalent to that seen over 12 months of treatment.  
−  Response after a total of 52 weeks of certolizumab pegol treatment in subjects receiving 
certolizumab pegol across CDP870-031, CDP870-032 and CDP870-033 is similar to that reported 
for other approved anti-TNF therapies with continuing effectiveness of certolizumab pegol to 
maintain remission beyond 6 months. 
−  No impact on long-term response is seen from antibody formation to certolizumab pegol. 
Overall the applicant states that long-term maintenance of remission was consistently demonstrated in 
two independent, rigorously designed, and well-controlled 26 week studies, CDP870-031 and 
CDP870-032. Additional analyses of subjects with severe disease demonstrated clinically relevant 
maintenance of remission in both studies. CDP870-032 reflects clinical practice and results translate 
into a treatment algorithm for physicians to continue maintenance treatment in patients who respond to 
the open-label induction regimen.  
Although the program did not include a placebo-controlled 12-month maintenance study, results from 
the certolizumab pegol program and the similarity in mechanism of action to other anti-TNF therapies 
provide, in the opinion of the applicant, adequate justification for this deviation from the guideline. 
The design of the entire program is scientifically sound and generated robust clinically relevant long-
term safety and efficacy data. Twelve-month placebo- controlled studies evaluating infliximab and 
adalimumab show that the majority of relapses occur within the first 6 months and that the magnitude 
of effect between the anti-TNF therapy and placebo was similar at 6 and 12 months. These results 
support the conclusion that studies of 6 months duration provide adequate data to demonstrate the 
efficacy of anti-TNF therapy to maintain remission. Safety and efficacy results from CDP870-033 
demonstrate that subjects receiving open-label certolizumab pegol through 12 months continue to 
maintain remission similar to subjects treated with approved anti-TNF therapies. Analysis of antibody 
formation with continued treatment in subjects in CDP870-033 shows that subjects have low risk for 
immunogenicity from prolonged exposure up to 18 months; overall the available data show that the 
frequency of antibody formation remains constant from week 18 to week 52, and the number of 
subjects developing antibody to certolizumab pegol is low and there is no indication of lower response 
in subjects who were antibody positive compared to antibody negative. 
The applicant argues that the existing knowledge from available 12 month placebo-controlled studies 
of other anti-TNF therapies, the comparability of their 6 month results with the 6 month placebo-
controlled study results from CZP, and their 12 month results with the open-label continuation studies 
of CZP covering a period up to 80 weeks, demonstrate the safety and efficacy of certolizumab pegol as 
long-term maintenance therapy for subjects with Crohn's disease.  
45/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP position: 
A critical limitation of the clinical development programme is that neither the pivotal study 
CDP-870-031 nor the maintenance study CDP-870-032 were designed to assess the maintenance of 
remission at a minimum of 12 months as requested in the applicable EU guideline.  
The attempts made by the applicant to provide reassurance on the maintenance effect of certolizumab 
pegol are hampered with particular methodological limitations. In principle, the applicant claims 
maintenance of remission on the basis of the 26 weeks analysis from the pivotal study CDP-870-031, 
which is not regarded acceptable. It should be taken into account that maintenance of remission needs 
to be assessed in patients having previously achieved a remission, which corresponds to the 6+26 
weeks analysis; however the pivotal study CDP-870-031 failed to demonstrate any statistical 
difference over the placebo in terms of remission at this time point. 
The applicant’s prediction of the maintenance beyond 26 weeks is based on a model of questionable 
validity. This model, aiming to predict the probability of remission up to 52 weeks, has been built on 
the basis of the study results derived from the open label study CDP870-032. According to the 
applicant, a temporal model was identified, that provided “an excellent” fit to the observed data 
through 6 months. However, data provided do not allow assessing the validity of the computed model. 
Moreover, still according to the applicant, the observed data used to validate the model built were the 
data derived from the open label non comparative study CDP870-033. However, it is noteworthy that 
if this study could provide data beyond 26 weeks with certolizumab pegol, the same does not hold true 
for the validation of the estimation made for the placebo arm at similar endpoint. 
The historical comparison is intrinsically flawed by critical limitations. Comparison with long-term 
studies with other anti-TNF agents is hampered by many factors. The results cannot be compared with 
the results from Study CDP-870-032 that assessed maintenance of efficacy only in patients responding 
to certolizumab pegol. Comparisons with Study CDP-870-031 are more showing in a trend towards a 
inferiority of certolizumab pegol. Thus, the data from the open-label non comparative extension study 
CDP-870-033 are difficult to interpret for several reasons and overall the data presented do not 
provide any robust evidence for long-term efficacy of certolizumab pegol. Moreover, a decrease in 
concomitant doses of corticosteroids and even a steroid free remission was observed with other TNF 
antagonists which is of major importance in clinical practice. This is not the case for the certolizumab 
pegol. 
At present no major issue has been raised on the development of anti-CDP870 antibody although a 
trend for a lower efficacy is observed in patients having developed anti-CDP870. This issue would 
need further investigation. 
The Ad-hoc Expert group, when consulted by the CHMP, stated that maintenance of remission should 
have been convincingly demonstrated at one year. 
Ground for refusal 4: 
•  The safety profile of an anti-TNF agent, including the increased risk for infections as well as 
severe infections, and considerable uncertainties related to long-term safety, including 
increased risk for malignancy raise major concern. In addition, there is a signal of increased 
risk of serious events possibly suggestive of a prolongation in clotting time. 
Bleedings and coagulation parameters 
Applicant’s position: 
The applicant presented a review of all potential bleeding events from the clinical development 
programmes in Crohn’s Disease and Rheumatoid Arthritis, respectively, in order to assess whether 
treatment with certolizumab pegol is associated with a bleeding safety signal. Coagulation tests were 
only performed during some of the studies in the Rheumatoid Arthritis clinical program but not during 
46/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical studies in Crohn’s Disease. Extensive testing of the effect of certolizumab pegol or its 
components (Fab′, or PEG) on coagulation assays was performed by independent experts. 
The review of all TEAE and serious bleeding events in the Crohn’s Disease programme showed no 
evidence for increased bleeding risk. Overall, there were 17 reports of serious bleeding events among 
2166 subjects who received certolizumab pegol for more than 2100 pt-yrs in controlled and open-label 
studies. The incidence of bleeding events was similar between certolizumab pegol and placebo and 
there were only 2 serious bleeding events in certolizumab pegol-treated subjects during the controlled 
phases of the clinical studies. The types of bleeding events reported were consistent with those 
expected in subjects with Crohn's disease or could be attributed to underlying CD/GU conditions. 
The respective review of all TEAEs and serious bleeding events in the Rheumatoid Arthritis 
programme also showed no evidence of increased bleeding risk. When taking into account differences 
in exposure to certolizumab pegol and placebo, the rate of all bleeding events was similar. There was 
no increase rate of bleeding events with greater exposure. The most frequent events involved the GU 
tract (blood in urine and dysfunctional uterine bleeding) or related to injection of drug (bruising and 
ecchymosis). The majority of serious bleeding events also involved the GU tract. All serious bleeding 
events were extensively reviewed and were attributable to underlying conditions. 
With regard to the available data from coagulation tests, the review of the clinical data shows no 
association between bleeding and reports of abnormal coagulation assays. In RA and healthy volunteer 
studies, increases in the aPTT were only seen when aPTT was assayed using the specific kits Hemosil 
aPTT-SP and Stago PTTLA. Subsequent investigations have shown that the aPTT prolongation in 
these assay kits is due to in vitro assay interference and not due to in vivo disruption of coagulation 
activity. 
From a nonclinical viewpoint, elevations in PT and aPTT with certolizumab pegol were noted during 
conduct of preclinical studies. In all preclinical studies, no adverse bleeding or clotting related events 
were associated with abnormalities in PT and aPTT lab results with doses up to 100mg/kg/week (50 
times the maximum human recommended dose). Importantly, no findings of occult bleeding were 
found on necropsy. These laboratory abnormalities did not occur in all animal studies and subsequent 
investigations showed that certolizumab pegol and PEG interfere with the phospholipid component in 
some assay kits. 
The conclusion from in vitro assay interference studies is that certolizumab pegol or PEG interferes 
with some commercial assays to measure aPTT, including the Hemosil aPTT-SP and Stago PTTLA 
assays used in the clinical studies. The effect is related to interference by certolizumab pegol and PEG 
with the phospholipid component of the assays. The interference is an in vitro phenomenon and there 
is no evidence for an effect on in vivo coagulation function. A draft wording for section 4.4 of the 
SmPC was suggested together with a reflection in the Risk Management Plan. 
CHMP position: 
With regard to the data from the studies in Crohn’s Disease, it is recognized that the proportion of 
patients experiencing bleeding events during placebo-controlled studies was similar among placebo-
treated patients and certolizumab pegol-treated patients (4.5% in each treatment arm). However, 
regarding the type of bleeding events reported in each treatment arm, different trends were observed 
that need to be highlighted: while bleeding events may be mostly related to the underlying CD disease 
among placebo-treated patients (blood in stool 1.9%, anal haemorrhage 0.7%) or related to the 
injection itself (injection site bruising 0.9%) patients treated with certolizumab pegol experienced 
other kind of bleeding events, not or less observed in the placebo arm such as blood in urine (0.8%), 
conjunctival haemorrhage in one patient (0.1%), epistaxis (0.3%) and dysfunctional uterine bleeding 
(0.3%). These data seem to be confirmed by safety data derived from all certolizumab pegol doses 
studies (N=1564) where similar trends were observed: blood in urine was reported in 1.3% of 
certolizumab pegol-treated patients (n=20), conjunctival haemorrhage were reported in 4 patients 
(0.3%), epistaxis were observed in 11 patients (0.7%) and dysfunction uterine bleeding were reported 
47/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in 12 patients (0.8%). Of note, two cases of periorbital haematoma were also reported in all 
certolizumab pegol studies.  
The applicant also argues that the higher incidence of bleeding events in all studies group (8.9%) 
compared to the certolizumab pegol-treated subjects in the placebo-controlled studies  (4.5%) is due to 
the 3-fold increase in exposure (1200 patient-years versus 422 patient years). This difference in the 
duration of exposure between placebo-controlled studies and all studies group is acknowledged and 
has indeed to be taken into account in the assessment of safety data. However, in spite of that, it 
deserves to be noted that the incidence of conjunctival haemorrhage is estimated to be 0.2 for 100 
patient-years in certolizumab pegol-treated patients in all placebo-controlled studies and to 0.3 for 100 
patients-years in certolizumab pegol-treated patients in all open-label studies group. Moreover, the 
incidence of dysfunctional uterine bleeding slightly increased in certolizumab pegol-treated patients in 
All studies group (incidence of 1 /100 patient-years) compared to the one in certolizumab pegol-
treated patients from placebo-controlled studies (0.7/100 patient-years).  
Safety data on bleeding events in the Rheumatoid arthritis studies slightly differ to those reported in 
Crohn’s disease studies. In particular, no increased risk of blood in urine or conjunctival haemorrhage 
is retrieved between placebo-treated patients and certolizumab pegol-treated patients. However, a 
slight difference still persist in the incidence of dysfunctional uterine bleeding events between 
certolizumab pegol-treated patients and placebo-treated patients, even though no increase in these 
events occurred with long-term exposure to certolizumab pegol in the open-label studies. 
The available data did not show a clear association between bleeding events and abnormal coagulation 
parameters. Based on the data provided by the applicant it seems that there is an in vitro interference 
between CZP and phospholipid contained in some assays kits used to measure aPTT values. A direct 
effect of CZP on the coagulation activity is not apparent. It would however be important to clarify in 
the SmPC which test kits are expected to interfere with the measurement of aPTT levels.  
Moreover, although available data suggest an in vitro interference between certolizumab pegol and 
some coagulation assay and although no clear association was retrieved between bleeding events and 
coagulation abnormalities, a higher incidence of some type of bleeding events (mainly dysfunction 
uterine bleeding events and conjunctival haemorrhage) occurred in certolizumab pegol-treated patients 
included in Crohn’s disease studies. In that point, the applicant’s position that the bleeding events 
were typical for the subject populations studied is not supported. Moreover, this type of events has not 
been described with other anti-TNF agents. 
Other adverse events of special interest 
Applicant’s position: 
The Applicant provided a comprehensive review of serious adverse events (SAEs) for all events of 
special interest (deaths, malignancies, opportunistic infections, tuberculosis, malignancies, serious 
hematological events, and events associated with increased bleeding) from the development 
programmes in the indications Crohn’s Disease, Rheumatoid Arthritis, and Psoriasis (cut-off date 
16 July 2007). This review showed that the safety profile of certolizumab pegol is similar to that of 
other anti-TNF agents. Like other anti-TNF agents, there is an increased risk for infections including 
serious infection with certolizumab pegol. The type and severity of infections are those commonly 
reported with other anti-TNF agents and can be managed successfully medically. Other potential risks 
with anti-TNF therapies include malignancy as well as demyelinating disorders, lupus-like reactions, 
and exacerbation of heart failure. Review of safety data shows no increased risk for these events with 
certolizumab pegol in the clinical studies. The applicant did commit to further assessment of these 
safety events in the Risk Management Plan. 
CHMP position: 
Based on the available data it can be concluded that in general, the safety profile for certolizumab 
pegol – except for the risk for bleeding (see above) - is probably similar to other anti-TNF agents, but 
48/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety evaluation in Crohn’s Disease patients is to some extent hampered by the lack of long-term 
controlled data. Due to the design of the Crohn’s Disease studies, it appears that the overall number of 
patients that have received placebo only for more than 6 weeks is low, making interpretation of data 
with regard to long-term safety even more difficult. However, serious and opportunistic infections 
occurred with certolizumab pegol, including tuberculosis, typical class AEs for an anti-TNF agent and 
thus it can be concluded that certolizumab pegol is associated with the same risks as others of the same 
class. 
The CHMP consulted the Ad-hoc Expert group with regard to the safety profile of certolizumab pegol. 
The experts considered the compound as having a similar safety profile to that of medicinal products 
of the same class and the safety issues to be manageable with particular monitoring recommended in 
the SPC. For the risk of bleeding outside GI tract the experts indicated that the clinical specialist can 
handle these in daily practice. The spurious event of prolonged aPTT due to interference of 
certolizumab pegol with the in vitro test kit was recognised as well. 
Overall conclusion on grounds for re-examination 
Quality aspects 
The applicant has adequately addressed the control of product purity and integrity. Specifications of 
the drug substance and drug product have been set and the specifications for the drug substance and 
drug product have been tightened. Furthermore, all species resolved in the purity analysis have been 
identified. Sufficient assurance has been given that the quality of the to-be-marketed medicinal 
product will be comparable to the product on which the marketing authorisation application is based 
on. From a Quality point of view, the application for marketing authorisation for Cimzia is approvable. 
Efficacy aspects 
In the pivotal study CDP870-031, the applicant has chosen to focus its primary analysis to the 
response rate (and not to the remission rate). Even if the response rate can be regarded as having some 
value in clinical practice, it remains that the main goal of treatment in clinical practice is the more 
ambitious achievement of remission, as currently recommended in the EU guideline. The study has 
failed to demonstrate any statistical difference over the placebo in the more clinically meaningful 
endpoint of induction of remission (primary endpoint recommended in the EU guideline).  
When now focusing on the primary analysis chosen by the applicant (i.e. induction of response at 
week 6 and 6+26), the results cannot be regarded as convincing neither in term of effect size (around 
10%) nor on their consistency through the sensitivity analyses performed. 
As an additional critical limitation of the clinical demonstration the maintenance of the effect is not 
even captured beyond 26 weeks. According to the EU guideline maintenance of remission should be 
demonstrated over 52 weeks. This has been demonstrated for other anti-TNFs agents. 
In its response the applicant has made several attempts to add robustness to the demonstration of 
efficacy. However, these attempts mainly consist of exploratory post-hoc analyses and can not be 
regarded as an acceptable way to support a marketing authorisation. All the more they can be useful to 
capture an exploratory subgroup where the effect size of the drug would be particularly noticeable and 
would worth being focused on, in a subsequent confirmatory study.  
Safety aspects 
The general safety profile for certolizumab pegol is considered similar to other anti-TNF agents; 
however safety evaluation in Crohn’s disease patients is to some extent hampered by the lack of long-
term controlled data. Due to the design of the Crohn’s disease studies, it appears that the overall 
number of patients that have received placebo only for more than 6 weeks is low, making 
interpretation of data with regard to long-term safety even more difficult. However, serious and 
opportunistic infections occurred with certolizumab, including tuberculosis, typical class AEs for an 
49/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anti-TNF agent and thus it can be concluded that certolizumab is associated with the same risks as 
others of the same class.  
It needs to be recognised though that in contrast to the other anti-TNFα agents a potential higher risk 
of bleeding events was observed in certolizumab pegol treated patients when considering all available 
safety data for certolizumab pegol, which comprises studies in Crohn’s disease and Rheumatoid 
arthritis. Clinical data from placebo controlled studies in Crohn’s disease did not show an increase in 
the rate of bleeding adverse events with certolizumab pegol when compared to placebo, although some 
type of bleeding events observed in certolizumab pegol–treated patients were not necessarily typical of 
the populations studied (mainly dysfunction uterine bleeding, conjunctival haemorrhage, epistaxis). 
When referring to all studies in Crohn’s Disease (i.e. including not placebo controlled studies), there 
was an increased rate of bleedings in the group of patients that had received certolizumab pegol 
compared with the rate in patients receiving certolizumab pegol in placebo controlled trials, however 
longer exposure times in the overall patient group might explain this difference. Also, results from 
Rheumatoid arthritis studies indicate that there might be an increased risk of bleeding, although the 
difference compared with placebo was only minimal when corrected for exposure time. 
The role of certolizumab pegol and the mechanism behind these bleeding events remain unclear. Even 
though bleeding events may potentially represent an additional signal to a safety profile already judged 
as particularly worrying as for all anti-TNFs agents, they are nevertheless, per se, not perceived as a 
major issue (serious bleedings were not commonly reported; apart from interference with clotting 
times, relation with the drug not clearly established ).  
Convincing data demonstrated that certolizumab pegol interferes with many of the commercially 
available kits for testing APTT, with prolongation of APTT up to 40%. This interference is most 
certainly related to the PEG fraction of the active substance. The effects of PEG on various proteins is 
not a new phenomenon and rarely is it related to specific binding to the proteins, rather they change 
the protein surroundings, such as lipophilic environment, prevent binding of blood proteins to plastic 
containers etc. Interference was addressed in the proposed  SmPC and proposed RMP.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
The available clinical data does not demonstrate that certolizumab pegol has a clinically relevant effect 
in the claimed therapeutic indication, neither for induction or maintenance of remission. The safety 
profile of certolizumab pegol covers the risks associated with anti-TNF agents in general and leaves 
some uncertainties regarding the potential risk for bleedings since an association of certolizumab 
pegol with the occurrence of the bleedings cannot be ruled out; the latter will need further 
investigation. 
These risks together with a not sufficiently demonstrated clinical efficacy lead to the assessment that 
the benefit/risk relation remains unfavourable for certolizumab pegol. 
CHMP conclusion on benefit/risk 
Having considered the grounds for the re-examination from the applicant, the discussion during the 
Ad-Hoc Expert Group meeting and the CHMP members’ discussion during the oral explanation, the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit/risk for CIMZIA in the claimed indication remains negative.  
Grounds for refusal 
•  The results in study CDP870-031 have not demonstrated a statistically and clinically relevant 
effect with respect to induction treatment; 
•  The lack of 12 months controlled data on maintenance treatment; 
• 
In the light of the limited evidence of efficacy and the safety concerns with CIMZIA, also in 
view of the known safety profile as an anti-TNF agent, the benefit risk is negative. 
50/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
