Summary of risk management plan for Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg 
and 90 mg film-coated tablets (Cinacalcet hydrochloride) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for  Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg 
60  mg  and  90  mg  film-coated  tablets.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 
90 mg film-coated tablets’ risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets’ summary of product 
characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and patients on how Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-
coated tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated 
tablets should be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of 
the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets’ RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma is indicated for: 
Secondary hyperparathyroidism 
Adults 
Treatment  of  secondary  hyperparathyroidism  (HPT)  in  adult  patients  with  end-stage  renal 
disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in children aged 3 years and older with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis therapy in whom secondary HPT is 
not adequately controlled with standard of care therapy 
Cinacalcet may  be used as part of a therapeutic regimen  including phosphate binders and/or 
Vitamin D sterols, as appropriate. 
Parathyroid carcinoma and primary hyperparathyroidism in adults 
Reduction of hypercalcaemia in adult patients with: 
  Parathyroid carcinoma 
  Primary HPT for whom parathyroidectomy would be indicated on the basis of serum 
calcium  levels  (as  defined  by  relevant  treatment  guidelines),  but  in  whom 
parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is contraindicated. 
It contains cinacalcet hydrochloride as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 
mg  film-coated tablets’  benefits  can  be  found  in  Cinacalcet’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-
language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cinacalcet-accordpharma 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or 
further characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Cinacalcet  Accordpharma  30  mg,  60  mg  and  90  mg  film-coated  tablets 
together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about 
Cinacalcet  Accordpharma  30  mg,  60  mg  and  90  mg  film-coated  tablets’  risks,  are  outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these  measures,  information about adverse reactions  is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 
mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ 
below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets are 
risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, 
so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified 
or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the 
use of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets. Potential risks 
are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
  Hypocalcaemia 
  QT  prolongation  and  ventricular  arrhythmias 
secondary to hypocalcaemia 
  Convulsions/ seizures 
Important potential risks 
  None 
Missing information 
  Pregnant or breastfeeding women 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important Identified Risks: Hypocalcaemia 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9, 5.1 and 5.3 of 
Cinacalcet SmPC have information on this safety 
concern  and  corresponding  sections  of  PIL  has 
information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measure includes 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Important Identified Risks: QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias secondary 
to hypocalcaemia 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections  4.4  and  4.8  of  Cinacalcet  SmPC  have 
information  on 
this 
safety  concern  and 
corresponding sections of PIL has information on 
this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measure includes 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Identified Risks: Convulsions/ seizures 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections  4.4,  4.7  and  4.8  of  Cinacalcet  SmPC 
have  information  on  this  safety  concern  and 
corresponding sections of PIL has information on 
this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measure includes 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing Information: Pregnant or breastfeeding women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections  4.6  and  5.3  of  Cinacalcet  SmPC  have 
information  on 
this 
safety  concern  and 
corresponding sections of PIL has information on 
this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measure includes 
the prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30 mg, 60 mg and 90 mg film-coated tablets. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are  no studies required  for Cinacalcet Accordpharma 30  mg, 60  mg and 90  mg  film-
coated tablets. 
