EMA/707621/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Cinacalcet Mylan (cinacalcet) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cinacalcet Mylan, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Cinacalcet Mylan is used as safely as possible. For more 
information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Cinacalcet Mylan, which can be found on Cinacalcet Mylan’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Cinacalcet Mylan is used treat hyperparathyroidism in patients with serious kidney disease. 
Hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which the parathyroid glands in the neck produce too much 
parathyroid hormone (PTH), develops early in chronic kidney disease, before dialysis is required. 
Consequently, most patients with chronic kidney disease stage 5 or end-stage renal disease have 
raised parathyroid hormone.  
Cinacalcet Mylan is also used to reduce blood calcium levels in patients with parathyroid carcinoma 
(cancer of the parathyroid glands) or primary hyperparathyroidism (hyperparathyroidism that is not 
caused by any other condition). Parathyroid carcinoma has an estimated incidence of 2 cases per 
10,000,000 persons/year in Europe. Primary hyperparathyroidism had an estimated incidence of 0.3% 
of the general population (3 out of 1000 person). 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Cinacalcet Mylan is a generic medicine of Mimpara. Studies in people showed that Cinacalcet Mylan is 
bioequivalent to Mimpara, meaning that they both produce the same levels of the active substance in 
the body. 
The benefits and risks of Cinacalcet Mylan are therefore taken as being the same as Mimpara’s. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Cinacalcet is not been tested in pregnant women and it is not known whether cinacalcet passes into 
human milk. The use of cinacalcet in children and adolescents has not been established. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Low calcium levels in 
Unusually fast or pounding heart 
Patients experiencing these 
blood (Hypocalcaemia) 
beat (QT prolongation and 
symptoms should talk to the doctor 
ventricular arrhythmia), numbness 
immediately. Patients should be 
Page 1/4 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
or tingling around the mouth, 
monitored carefully for low blood 
muscle aches or cramps, and 
calcium levels whilst being treated 
seizures (fits) may be associated 
with cinacalcet. If calcium levels fall, 
with low levels of calcium in blood. 
the dose may need to be reduced or 
treatment interrupted. 
Treatment with cinacalcet should 
not be started in patients with low 
blood calcium levels. 
Seizures/convulsions 
Patients who have had seizures in 
Before starting to take Cinacalcet 
(fits) 
the past are at a higher risk of 
Mylan, patients should tell their 
seizures whilst on treatment with 
doctors if they have ever had 
cinacalcet. An overdose of 
seizures. The doctors can then 
Cinacalcet Mylan could also lead to 
modify the treatment accordingly or 
seizures. Seizures can also occur 
closely monitor the patient during 
when blood calcium levels are low. 
treatment. 
Low blood pressure 
After taking cinacalcet a very small 
The doctor may check patient’s 
(hypotension) and/or 
number of patients with heart 
heart condition and blood pressure 
worsening heart failure   
failure had worsening of their 
at regular intervals to make sure 
condition and/or low blood pressure 
that patient’s  blood pressure does 
(hypotension). 
not become too low and that the 
heart failure does not worsen.  
Allergic reactions 
The following side effects are 
Cinacalcet must not be used in 
including rash, hives or 
common (occurring in up to 1 
patients who are allergic to 
angioedema, a condition 
patient in 10) with the use of 
cinacalcet or any other ingredient of 
which includes signs 
cinacalcet: rash and allergic 
this medicine. 
such as swelling of the 
reactions (hypersensitivity) such as 
face, lips, mouth, tongue 
hives (urticaria) and swelling of the 
or throat and may cause 
face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat, 
difficulty in swallowing or 
which may cause difficulty in 
breathing 
swallowing or breathing 
(Hypersensitivity 
(angioedema). 
reactions including rash, 
urticaria, and 
angioedema) 
Prescribers should be aware about 
the risk of possible allergic reaction 
in patients taking cinacalcet. 
Unusual heart rhythm 
Cinacalcet use may induce 
Prescribers should be aware about 
due to low level of 
unusually fast or pounding heart 
the risk of unusually fast or 
calcium in the blood (QT 
beat which may be associated with 
pounding heart beat which may be 
prolongation and 
low levels of calcium in the blood. 
associated with low levels of calcium 
ventricular arrhythmias 
secondary to 
hypocalcaemia) 
in the blood in patients taking 
cinacalcet. 
Page 2/4 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Broken or cracked 
Patients treated with cinacalcet for primary and secondary 
bones (fractures) 
hyperparathyroidism are at risk of fractures due to loss of calcium in the 
bones, as calcium is important for bone strength. 
Inflammation of the 
Patients treated with cinacalcet may be at risk of inflammation of the 
pancreas over a short 
pancreas. This is a serious problem with the following signs or symptoms: 
period of time (acute 
pancreatitis) 
• 
• 
• 
severe upper stomach pain  
feeling sick (nausea) 
being sick (vomiting)  
Possible liver 
Cinacalcet should be used with caution in patients with moderate to severe 
problems due to 
liver problems and treatment should be closely monitored during dose titration 
medication (possible 
and continued treatment. Patients are advised to talk to their doctor 
drug-related hepatic 
pharmacist or nurse before taking Cinacalcet Mylan if they have had liver 
disorders) 
problems. 
Nervous system 
Cinacalcet use may cause side effects such as dizziness, numbness or tingling 
disorders (excluding 
sensation (paraesthesia) and headache. 
seizure) 
Tumour-related 
In a large, long-term study, patients who received cinacalcet had a higher rate 
effects (neoplastic 
of abnormal changes in body tissues (neoplasms) than patients who received 
events) 
placebo 
Heart disorders 
Cinacalcet use may cause side effects such as unusually fast or pounding 
heart beat which may be associated with low levels of calcium in the blood (QT 
prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia secondary to hypocalcaemia) The 
frequency of these side effects is not known.  
Also, a few patients with heart failure experienced worsening of their condition 
and/or low blood pressure (hypotension). 
Patients are advised to inform their doctor about previous or recent 
experience of heart failure. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Pregnant or 
Cinacalcet should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit 
breastfeeding women  
justifies the potential risk to the fetus. 
Following a careful benefit-risk assessment, a decision should be made to 
discontinue either breast-feeding or treatment with cinacalcet. 
Use in children 
Cinacalcet is not indicated for use in children and adolescents due to a lack of 
(paediatric patients) 
data on safety and efficacy. 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Cinacalcet Mylan can be found on Cinacalcet Mylan’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
No studies planned. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable 
This summary was last updated in 10-2015. 
Page 4/4 
 
