EMA/65298/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005236 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma (cinacalcet) 
An overview of Cinacalcet Accordpharma and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Cinacalcet Accordpharma and what is it used for? 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma is a medicine used to treat: 
• 
secondary hyperparathyroidism (overactive parathyroid glands) in adults and children aged 3 years 
and older with serious kidney disease who need dialysis (to clear their blood of waste products); 
•  hypercalcaemia (high blood calcium levels) in adults with cancer of the parathyroid glands or with 
primary hyperparathyroidism when the parathyroid glands cannot be removed. 
In hyperparathyroidism, the parathyroid glands in the neck produce too much parathyroid hormone 
(PTH), which can lead to high levels of blood calcium, bone and joint pain and deformities of the arms 
and legs. ‘Secondary’ means that it is caused by another condition (serious kidney disease) while 
‘primary’ means there is no other cause. 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma contains the active substance cinacalcet and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Cinacalcet Accordpharma contains the same active substance and works in the same way 
as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Mimpara. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Cinacalcet Accordpharma used? 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma is available as 30, 60 and 90 mg tablets, to be taken with food or shortly 
after a meal. 
In patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism, the recommended starting dose for adults is 30 mg 
once a day, while in children the daily starting dose depends on the child’s weight. The dose is 
adjusted, according to the patient’s PTH and calcium levels. In younger patients requiring less than 
30 mg once a day, other cinacalcet products should be used that allow a lower dose to be given. 
In patients with hypercalcaemia who also have parathyroid gland cancer or primary 
hyperparathyroidism, the recommended starting dose of Cinacalcet Accordpharma in adults is 30 mg 
twice a day. The dose should be increased every 2 to 4 weeks up to 90 mg three or four times a day as 
necessary to reduce blood calcium to normal levels. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Cinacalcet Accordpharma work? 
The active substance in Cinacalcet Accordpharma, cinacalcet, works by increasing the sensitivity of the 
calcium-sensing receptors on the parathyroid glands that regulate PTH secretion. By increasing the 
sensitivity of these receptors, cinacalcet leads to a reduction in the production of PTH by the 
parathyroid glands. The reduction in PTH levels also leads to a decrease in blood calcium levels.  
How has Cinacalcet Accordpharma been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Mimpara, and do not need to be repeated for Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma.   
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Cinacalcet Accordpharma. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Cinacalcet Accordpharma? 
Because Cinacalcet Accordpharma is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Cinacalcet Accordpharma authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Cinacalcet 
Accordpharma has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Mimpara. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Mimpara, the benefits of Cinacalcet Accordpharma 
outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cinacalcet Accordpharma have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Cinacalcet Accordpharma are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Cinacalcet Accordpharma are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients. 
Other information about Cinacalcet Accordpharma 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 3 April 2020. 
Further information on Cinacalcet Accordpharma can be found on the Agency’s website:  
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/cinacalcet-accordpharma. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2020. 
Cinacalcet Accordpharma (cinacalcet)  
EMA/65298/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
