EMA/660638/2015 
EMEA/H/C/004014 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cinacalcet Mylan 
cinacalcet 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cinacalcet Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Cinacalcet Mylan. 
For practical information about using Cinacalcet Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Cinacalcet Mylan and what is it used for? 
Cinacalcet Mylan is a medicine used in adults and older patients to:  
• 
treat secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with serious kidney disease who need dialysis to 
clear their blood of waste products. Hyperparathyroidism is a condition in which the parathyroid 
glands in the neck produce too much parathyroid hormone (PTH), which can lead to high levels of 
calcium in the blood, bone and joint pain and deformities of the arms and legs. ‘Secondary’ means 
that it is caused by another condition. Cinacalcet Mylan can be used as part of treatment including 
phosphate binders or vitamin D; 
• 
reduce hypercalcaemia (high blood calcium levels) in patients with parathyroid carcinoma (cancer 
of the parathyroid glands) or with primary hyperparathyroidism who cannot have their parathyroid 
glands removed or when the doctor thinks that their removal is not appropriate. ‘Primary’ means 
that the hyperparathyroidism is not caused by any other condition. 
Cinacalcet Mylan contains the active substance cinacalcet and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Cinacalcet Mylan is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU). 
The reference medicine for Cinacalcet Mylan is Mimpara.  
For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Cinacalcet Mylan used? 
Cinacalcet Mylan is available as 30, 60 and 90 mg tablets. In secondary hyperparathyroidism, the 
recommended starting dose for adults is 30 mg once a day. The dose is adjusted every two to four 
weeks, according to the patient’s PTH levels, up to a maximum of 180 mg once a day. PTH levels 
should be assessed at least 12 hours after dosing and one to four weeks after each dose adjustment of 
Cinacalcet Mylan. Blood calcium levels should be measured frequently, and within one week of each 
dose adjustment of Cinacalcet Mylan. Once a maintenance dose has been established, calcium levels 
should be measured monthly and PTH levels should be measured every one to three months. 
In patients with parathyroid carcinoma or primary hyperparathyroidism, the recommended starting 
dose of Cinacalcet Mylan for adults is 30 mg twice a day. The dose of Cinacalcet Mylan should be 
increased every two to four weeks up to 90 mg three or four times a day as necessary to reduce blood 
calcium to normal levels. 
Cinacalcet Mylan is taken with food or shortly after a meal. The medicine can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
How does Cinacalcet Mylan work? 
The active substance in Cinacalcet Mylan, cinacalcet, works by increasing the sensitivity of the calcium-
sensing receptors on the parathyroid glands that regulate PTH secretion. By increasing the sensitivity 
of these receptors, cinacalcet leads to a reduction in the production of PTH by the parathyroid glands. 
The reduction in PTH levels leads to a decrease in blood calcium levels. 
How has Cinacalcet Mylan been studied? 
Because Cinacalcet Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Mimpara. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Cinacalcet Mylan? 
Because Cinacalcet Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Cinacalcet Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Cinacalcet Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Mimpara. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Mimpara, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Cinacalcet Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cinacalcet Mylan? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Cinacalcet Mylan is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Cinacalcet Mylan, including the appropriate precautions to be 
followed by healthcare professionals and patients.   
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Cinacalcet Mylan  
EMA/660638/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Cinacalcet Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cinacalcet Mylan on 19 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Cinacalcet Mylan can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Cinacalcet Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the 
EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Cinacalcet Mylan  
EMA/660638/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
