EMA/435864/2018 Rev. 1 
Update of 23 June 2020: 
The shortage affecting Cinryze has been resolved and the below information and recommendations 
which were issued during the shortage no longer apply. 
3 August 2018  
Shortage of Cinryze (C1 inhibitor, human) 
powder and solvent for intravenous injection 
Indication 
Cinryze is a medicine used to treat angioedema (swelling) attacks 
in adults and adolescents aged 12 to 17 years with hereditary 
angioedema. 
Cinryze is also used for the prevention of angioedema attacks 
that can be triggered by medical, dental or surgical procedures. 
Cinryze is also used for routine prevention in patients who have 
severe and frequent angioedema attacks for which prevention 
with oral medicines is not adequate or in patients whose attacks 
are not adequately treated. 
Reason for shortage  
The manufacturer is facing a new increase in demand for Cinryze 
which outweighs current production capacities. While the 
manufacturer is adjusting production capacity, temporary 
treatment recommendations are in place to manage existing 
stocks. 
Member States affected1 
The EU Member States that may be impacted by a potential 
shortage are: Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, 
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, as well as Iceland and Norway. 
Information for healthcare 
•  An increased demand for Cinryze may result in a temporary 
professionals  
supply shortage while the manufacturer is adjusting 
production capacity. 
•  Healthcare professionals have been informed in writing about 
the potential supply problem.  
• 
In order to manage existing stocks, prescribers should 
1 This information may change. For up-to-date information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State, contact the national competent authority. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Cinryze (C1 inhibitor, human) 
powder and solvent for intravenous injection 
consider alternative treatment options for patients who 
require treatment and pre-procedure prevention of 
angioedema attacks. 
•  When used for routine prevention of angioedema attacks 
patients who are already receiving Cinryze may continue to 
receive Cinryze.  
•  Consider not starting new patients for routine prevention. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Information for patients  
•  An increased demand for Cinryze may result in a temporary 
supply shortage while the manufacturer is adjusting 
production capacity. 
• 
To manage stocks efficiently, doctors will consider alternative 
treatment when using Cinryze for treatment of angioedema 
attacks and prevention before medical, dental or surgical 
procedures. 
•  When used for routine prevention of angioedema attacks 
patients already on treatment may continue to receive 
Cinryze.  
• 
Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor 
or pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from the national 
competent authority. 
Shortage of Cinryze (C1 inhibitor, human)  
EMA/22970/2017 Rev. 1  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
