European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
CIRCADIN 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
melatonin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/695 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2007 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Melatonin,  the  hormone  produced  by  the  pineal  gland,  plays  an  important  role  in  the  regulation  of 
circadian rhythms. In humans the most important circadian rhythms is the sleep-wake cycle.  
The  sleep-wake  cycle  may  be  pathologically  affected  in  different  ways.  Furthermore,  the  sleep  may 
also be disturbed by various processes. The disturbances of the sleep-wake cycle are called circadian 
rhythms  disorders  and  include  the  jet  lag  (tome  zone  change)  syndrome,  shift  work  sleep  disorder, 
advanced sleep phase syndrome, non-24h sleep-wake syndrome. In all these insomnia might appear as 
a  symptom.  Chronic  insomnia  is  itself  a  sleep  disorder,  in  spite  of  being  very  complex.  Transiently 
difficulty in sleeping is a vastly more common phenomenon than is chronic insomnia. The diagnosis 
of chronic insomnia is based on the subjective complaint of difficulty in initiating or maintaining sleep 
or of non-restorative sleep (not feeling well-rested after sleep that is apparently adequate in amount). 
Primary insomnia 
Primary insomnia is sleeplessness that is not attributable to a medical, psychiatric, or environmental 
cause.  The  diagnostic  criteria  for  primary  insomnia  from  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of 
Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) is as follows: 
•  The  predominant  symptom 
is  difficulty 
initiating  or  maintaining  sleep  or 
nonrestorative sleep for at least 1 month. 
•  The  sleep  disturbance  (or  associated  daytime  fatigue)  causes  clinically  significant 
distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. 
•  The  sleep  disturbance  does  not  occur  exclusively  during  the  course  of  narcolepsy, 
breathing-related sleep disorder, circadian rhythm sleep disorder, or parasomnia. 
•  The  disturbance  does  not  occur  exclusively  during  the  course  of  another  mental 
disorder (e.g., major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, delirium). 
•  The disturbance is not due to the direct physiologic effects of a substance (e.g., drug 
abuse, medication) or a general medical condition. 
Physiological role of melatonin 
Melatonin (N-acetyl-5 methoxytryptamine) is a neurohormone that is primarily produced in the pineal 
gland, located behind the third ventricle in the brain with daily and seasonal rhythms mainly under the 
control  of  the  circadian  oscillator  located  in  the  suprachiasmatic  nuclei  of  the  hypothalamus  (SCN) 
which have melatonin receptors (Weaver et al., 1993). The pineal gland is a major component of the 
endocrine system that allows mammals to respond to the annual changes in photoperiod by adaptive 
alterations  of  their  physiological  state.  Melatonin  is  synthesized  in  the  pineal  gland  during  the  dark 
phase  of  the  light/dark  cycle  and  is  rapidly  delivered  to  the  body  via  the  systemic  circulation.  In 
addition  to  the  pineal  gland,  melatonin  is  synthesized  in  several  other  structures  (retina,  Harderian 
gland,  gut)  where  the  genetic  expression  and  biochemical  activity  of  the  melatonin-synthesizing 
enzymes have been detected. It has been proposed that melatonin plays an auto/paracrine role in these 
structures. 
Studies  performed  to  understand  the  mechanisms  of  action  of  melatonin  in  the  regulation  of  some 
seasonal and circadian functions have demonstrated that the dynamic pattern of melatonin secretion is 
fundamental for its time-giving function.  
The rhythmic pattern of melatonin secretion is important because it brings to organisms information 
about time that allows them to adapt some of their physiological functions to the daily and seasonal 
variations  of  their  environment.  It  is  thus  necessary  to  delineate  the  various  processes  and  elements 
that  regulate  the  rhythms  of  melatonin  synthesis  and  secretion  to  understand  how  environmental 
factors are transmitted to the whole organism. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About the product 
Tryptophan is converted to serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), then acetylated (N-acetylserotonin) and 
finally converted to melatonin which is an indole ((N-acetyl-5 methoxytryptamine).  
The  pharmaceutical  formulation  is  a  prolonged  release  formulation  of  melatonin  presented  in  2  mg 
tablets. 
The claimed therapeutic indication for Circadin was: ”The relief of primary insomnia characterized by 
poor quality of sleep in patients aged 55 or over.” 
The  indication  agreed  by  the  CHMP  is:  Circadin  is  indicated  as  monotherapy  for  the  short-term 
treatment of primary insomnia characterized by poor quality of sleep in patients who are aged 55 or 
over. 
The development programme/Compliance with Scientific Advice. 
The first MAA for Circadin was submitted on 14 February 2000 and the application was withdrawn on 
10 January 2002. The major objection mentioned in the CPMP consolidated list of questions  issued 
on October 2000,  was related to the efficacy as  “the efficacy of Circadin in primary insomnia had not 
been demonstrated “ because: 
a)  The three pivotal studies included in the first application( Neurim I, Neurim IV and Neurim 
V) were inconclusive. 
b)  Post –hoc analysis were just hypothesis generating, 
c)  Meta-analysis had several weaknesses: search and selection of studies included was unclear; 
studies  sponsored  by  the  applicant  were  merged  and  sensitivity  analysis  was  not  conducted; 
the results produced were very modest and its clinical relevance doubtful, 
d)  Dose-response  relationship  with  the  controlled-release  formulation  of  Circadin  was  not 
established, 
e)  The  validity  of  selecting  only  questions  4  and  5  of  the  Leeds  Sleep  Questionnaire  as  main 
efficacy variable was insufficiently justified and  
f)  The clinical relevance of changes in the QOS scale observed was questioned.  
Following  the  Company’s  response  to  the  LOI  and  the  CPMP  hearing  which  took  place  on  12 
December  2001,  the  major  objection  related  to  the  proof  of  efficacy  was  not  solved  during  the 
discussion at the CPMP plenary meeting. The Company after discussion with the rapporteurs decided 
to withdraw the MAA and to request a Scientific Advice. 
The Scientific Advice was requested in 2002 regarding the Phase III clinical development. The questions 
asked in relation to the intended indication for the treatment of primary insomnia were related to the:  
-assessment of effect on insomnia [sleep quality/quantity/duration] 
-use of non-restorative sleep as target of drug treatment 
-inclusion criteria [DSM-IV and ICD-10]; >55 years 
-primary outcome assessment of sleep quality with diary cards 
-definition of clinically meaningful effect/clinical relevance 
-secondary outcome variable 
-assessment of withdrawal effect  
-safety database 
To confirm these results the applicant was advised by CHMP to conduct a further pivotal study that 
would  be  ideally  3  arms  with  and  active  control  arm.  The  applicant  chose  to  do  otherwise.  Two 
independent trials, although run in the same trial conditions were executed one to compare zolpidem 
10 mg to placebo (Neurim VIIIa) and the other, the real pivotal study, to compare Circadin 2 mg to 
placebo (Neurim IX). See discussion in clinical efficacy section. 
The new dossier includes all the data that were submitted in the first MAA and additional data extracted 
from the new studies performed during 2003-2005. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/52 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Circadin is presented in the form of prolonged-release tablets containing 2 mg of melatonin for oral 
administration.  The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  Circadin  are  ammonio  methacrylate 
copolymer Type B, calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate, lactose monohydrate, colloidal anhydrous 
silica, talcum and magnesium stearate. There are no novel excipients used in the formulation. 
Drug Substance (to be changed in the EPAR to “Active Substance”) 
Melatonin has a relative molecular mass of 232.27 and the following structural formula:  
H3CO
H
N
CH3
O
N
H
Melatonin  is  a  slightly  off-white,  crystalline  powder,  which  is  soluble  in  tetrahydrofuran  and 
methanol, slightly soluble in ethyl acetate and insoluble in water.  
•  Manufacture 
Melatonin  is  chemically  manufactured  by  two  manufacturers  via  organic  synthesis  starting  from  5-
methoxytryptamine.  The  route  of  synthesis  consists  of  three  steps  starting  with  the  reaction  of  5-
methoxytryptamine  with  acetic  anhydride  in  ethyl  acetate  to  yield  crude  melatonin,  followed  by  the 
recrystallization from tetrahydrofuran to yield pure melatonin (purification step). The last step consists 
of micronisation of the pure melatonin to yield the final bulk melatonin with a particle size of less than 
21µm.  
Melatonin  was  characterised  by  Infrared  spectroscopy  (IR),  proton  NMR,  carbon  NMR,  mass 
spectroscopy (MS) and elemental analysis. 
•  Specification 
The  specifications  for  the  active  substance  include  description  (visual  appearance),  identification 
(melting point, IR, UV and HPLC), assay (HPLC), water content, total microbial count, heavy metals, 
impurities (HPLC and GC) and particle size distribution (laser method).  
Five batches of the active substance were manufactured at production scale. The results showed that 
the active substance could be reproducibly manufactured. 
The analytical methods have been adequately validated according to the ICH guideline on “Validation 
of  Analytical  Methods”.  The  assay  method  for  the  active  substance  by  potentiometry  was  validated 
with  respect  to  linearity  and  precision  The  HPLC  method  used  for  determination  of  the  impurities 
content was validated with respect to the specificity, detection and quantitation limits for the specified 
impurity 5-methoxytryptamine. The linearity, accuracy and precision were also assessed for this single 
specified  impurity.  The  head-space  gas  chromatography  method  was  validated  regarding  accuracy, 
inter-assay precision, specificity, linearity and range. 
•  Stability 
©EMEA 2007 
4/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability studies were performed on melatonin stored in the proposed packaging, according to the ICH 
guideline. Stability data (36 months long term 25oC/60% RH; 36 months accelerated 40oC/75%RH) 
was provided on three batches manufactured at both intended sites of manufacture. 
The data provided is sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period for each of the manufacturing 
sites. 
Drug Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Since melatonin presents an in vivo half-life of 40-50 min in humans, a prolonged-release dosage form 
was developed to obtain an 8 to 10-hour period of release of melatonin.  
The  formulation  development  involved  the  use  of  different  methacrylate  resins.  The  in  vitro  release 
properties of the formulations were evaluated. The in vivo release profile of the selected formulations 
was  then  tested  against  a  regular  release  formulation  in  a  healthy  male  volunteer  at  10.00  am  when 
endogenous  circulating  melatonin  levels  are  low.  In  vivo  release  was  evaluated  by  monitoring  the 
urinary  excretion  of  the  major  metabolite,  6-sulphatoxymelatonin  (6-SMT).  The  two  selected 
formulations and the regular release formulation were then further tested in a double-blind cross-over 
study  in  elderly  healthy  patients.  Urinary  excretion  of  6-SMT  occurred  in  a  formulation-dependent 
manner  and  one  formulation  exhibited  profiles,  which  essentially  mimicked  the  endogenous 
metabolite excretion pattern.  
During  the  scale  up  process  the  dimensions  of  the  tablet  (weight,  diameter)  and  the  proportions  of 
excipients  were  modified.  In  addition,  silicon  dioxide  was  added  to  achieve  a  similar  dissolution 
profile to the commercial tablet, with physical characteristics (hardness, friability) that complied with 
the requested commercial standards.  
An  in  vitro-in  vivo  correlation  was  also  established.  A  single-dose,  two-way  crossover  comparative 
pharmacokinetic and food interaction study together with the corresponding in vitro dissolution study, 
were performed to establish an in vitro-in vivo correlation. The data showed linear correlation (level 
A), confirming that the proposed dissolution test may be considered a reliable marker for the in vivo 
performance. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Lactose  monohydrate  was  of  animal  origin.  A  declaration  from  the  lactose  supplier  was  provided 
stating that the lactose was sourced from healthy animals under the same conditions as milk collected 
for human consumption. The magnesium stearate used was of vegetable origin.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process for Circadin uses standard pharmaceutical techniques for a prolonged-
release formulation. Manufacturing of the product comprises standard milling, blending, granulation 
steps, prior to compression. 
Process validation was carried out on three batches of 600,000 tablets (102 kg batch size) and showed 
that the tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  methods  for  appearance,  dimensions,  identity  (HPLC  –  retention 
time),  microbial  purity,  uniformity  of  mass,  uniformity  of  content  (HPLC),  tablet  hardness,  assay 
(HPLC), residual solvents (methanol by GC), dissolution and impurities (HPLC). The dissolution is a 
6-point test between 1 to 10 hours to define the profile. 
©EMEA 2007 
5/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The drug product specifications have been justified and all methods of analysis have been described 
and adequately validated. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  on  six  batches  (manufacturing  scale)  was  provided.  Two  batches  were  stored  at 
25oC/60% RH for 24 months and 60 months, other two batches at 30oC/70% RH for 12 months, and 
other two batches at 40oC/75%RH for 6 months. The following parameters were tested at every time 
interval:  appearance,  tablet  weight,  hardness,  assay,  individual  and  total  impurities  and  dissolution 
profile. Loss on drying was determined after 12 months storage at 25oC/60% RH and microbial purity 
was  determined  after  9  months  at  25oC/60%  RH  (first  set  of  batches)    and  after  12  months  at 
30oC/70% RH (second set of batches). 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions,  as  stated  in  the 
SPC, are acceptable.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of test carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. A robust 6-point in 
vitro  dissolution  test  has  been  developed  to  ensure  batch-to-batch  consistency.  In  addition,  a  linear 
level  A  in  vitro-in  vivo  correlation  was  established  confirming  that  the  proposed  dissolution  test 
developed may be considered a reliable marker for the in vivo performance of the drug product. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issue having no impact on the 
Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve 
these as Follow-Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
With the exception of two studies conducted by the Applicant to investigate the effects of melatonin 
on hexobarbital narcosis in mice and on brain melatonin and benzodiazepine binding sites in rats, all 
documentation  concerning 
and 
pharmacodynamic interactions are derived from the published literature. 
safety  pharmacodynamics 
secondary  and 
the  primary, 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
While  the  current  understanding  of  endogenous  melatonin  is  substantial,  especially  regarding 
melatonin's involvement in the circadian timing system, the putative role that endogenous melatonin 
may play in regulating sleep and how this role is mediated remains unclear. 
In vitro studies 
Melatonin is described in the literature as acting at the central nervous system level, modulating the 
synchronisation  of  the  biological  clock  and  promoting  sleep  through  stabilisation  and  phase-shifting 
effects on the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. 
Interaction with melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptor subtypes seem to be involved in the action. 
MT1  receptors  are  located  mainly  in  cells  of  he  pituitary  pars  tuberalis  (PT),  controlling  seasonal 
prolactin  variations  in  ruminants,  whereas  there  is  no  evidence  to  suggest  that  MT2  receptors  are 
present  in  the  PT.  By  contrast,  both  MT1  and  MT2  receptors  are  located  in  the  suprachiasmatic 
nucleus. The molecule  125I-melatonin has been used in binding and autoradiographic studies and has 
enabled detection of melatonin binding sites expressed at low density in most tissues in which effect 
of melatonin have been reported.  
©EMEA 2007 
6/52 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  transduction  pathways  mediated  by  these  melatonin  receptors  remain  an  unsolved  and  complex 
issue.  The  MT1  receptor  couples  to  different  G  protein,  one  of  which  mediates  inhibition  of  adenyl 
cyclase  and  the  other  activates  phopsholipase  Cβ.  The  MT2  receptor  couples  to  phosphoinositide 
production,  the  inhibition  of  adenyl  cyclase  and  the  inhibition  of  the  soluble  guanylyl  cyclase 
pathway. The MT2 receptor mRNA present in human retina and brain is responsible for entrainment 
of circadian rhythms in the SCN. MT1 and MT2 polymorphisms have been found in humans and may 
be associated with sleep disorders.  
In vivo studies 
In mammals melatonin is mainly synthesised in the pineal gland from serotonin but it also is formed in 
the gut and retina. The production is circadian and it is stimulated by photic stimulus arising after the 
onset  of  darkness.  The  peak  of  melatonin  levels  is  reached  in  the  middle  of  the  night  (between 
2-4 a.m.)  and  decrease  to  low  levels  in  the  second  half  of  the  night.  In  young  adults  the  average 
daytime  levels  of  melatonin  are  10  pg/ml  and  the  peak  nighttime  level  is  60  pg/ml.  Endogenous 
production of melatonin is reduced in the elderly. 
A limitation of studies in nocturnal laboratory animals is that melatonin is often administered during 
the light phase, when melatonin is not endogenously produced but the animals are most likely asleep. 
Nevertheless, rats display intermittent periods of sleep and wakefulness in both light and dark phases 
rather than a single consolidated sleep period such as observed in humans. This situation clearly has 
no  analogue  in  humans;  therefore  the  conclusions  drawn  from  laboratory  studies  in  rats  may  be  of 
limited value when extrapolated to other species. In addition, the doses typically employed in rats (i.e. 
2–20 mg/kg*)  produce  pharmacological  circulating  levels,  several  orders  of  magnitude  greater  than 
what is observed naturally, so like many of the human studies these may not reflect the endogenous 
physiological role of the hormone. 
To explore the nature of sleep-promoting effects of melatonin, some authors initiated studies in diurnal 
macaques  (Zhdanova  et  al,  1998).  In  addition  to  the  phylogenetic  proximity,  there  are  several 
important  similarities  between  humans  and  diurnal  non-human  primates,  favouring  the  use  of  these 
animals to model normal and pathological sleep-related processes. Those include: (1) Similar temporal 
patterns of activation of the major circadian pacemaker, the SCN, relative to the rest-activity cycle in 
both  species,  i.e.  high  activity  of  the  SCN  neurons  during  the  day  correlates  with  these  species’ 
daytime  activity,  in  contrast  to  nocturnal  animals  whose  SCN  is  active  during  their  daytime  rest 
period;  (2)  Similar  temporal  patterns  of  melatonin  production,  occurring  during  habitual  nighttime 
sleep period; (3) A consolidated nocturnal sleep episode, with similar sleep architecture, in contrast to 
the majority of nocturnal or diurnal species which tend to have a polyphasic sleep pattern. In all three 
species of diurnal macaques studied, the sleep process showed high sensitivity to daytime melatonin 
administration. Sleep initiation was significantly promoted by a wide range of melatonin doses used 
and, as in humans, showed a lack of dose dependence of the effect, once the dose (5–20 µg/kg, orally) 
was sufficient to induce physiologic circulating levels of the hormone (above 50 pg/ml). Lower doses 
failed to promote sleep in the macaques studied. 
The  Applicant  has  conducted  two  studies  to  investigate  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  profile  of 
melatonin focussed on sleep induction. 
1 - Effects of melatonin on hexobarbital-induced narcosis in mice 
The  effect  of  melatonin  on  hexobarbital  (75  mg/kg,  i.p.)-induced  narcosis  was  investigated  in  mice 
using 20 mg/kg* melatonin i.p. (low dose) and 100 mg/kg* melatonin i.p. (high dose). The onset time 
for  hypnosis  and  the  duration  of  the  sleeping  period  were  measured  in  all  groups.  The  results  are 
exposed in the Table below: 
Groups 
Control 
20 mg/Kg, ip 
100 mg/Kg, ip 
Hypnotic onset time (min.) 
2.18±0.74 
5.08±2.09* 
2.47±1.46 
Sleeping time (min). 
28.8±13.22 
43.94±12.52 
78.51±19.46** 
©EMEA 2007 
7/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*P<0.05; **P<0.01. 
The  results  show  that  melatonin,  at  the  dose  of  20  mg/Kg  delayed  the  hypnosis  induced  by 
hexobarbital  and  increased  the  sleeping  time  of  the  animals.  Furthermore  the  animals  showed 
excitation  and  body  rotation  before  following  asleep.  For  the  animals  treated  with  the  dose  of 
100 mg/Kg the duration of the sleeping period increased and the onset time for hypnosis was similar 
(slightly higher) to the one from controls. The results seem to suggest that melatonin potentiated the 
sleeping  effect  induced  by  hexobarbital,  but  increased  the  onset  time  for  hypnosis  (vs  controls)  for 
which a plausible explanation was not provided. 
These  effects  are  difficult  to  interpret  and  extrapolation  to  man  cannot  explain  the  efficacy  of  the 
proposed  human  dose  of  2mg.  In  a  study  performed  in  2  monkeys  (from  the  literature)  5  µg/Kg  of 
melatonin  administered  2  hours  before  the  onset  of  darkness  was  the  minimum  effective  dose  to 
promote sleep onset. The plasma levels obtained were similar to the physiological ones in that species 
(54 pg/ml). Therefore, the efficacy of melatonin is based mainly on clinical information. 
2  -  Reciprocal  effects  of  chronic  diazepam  and  melatonin  on  brain  melatonin  and  benzodiazepine 
binding sites in rats 
The effect of diazepan on the binding profile of 125I iodomelatonin binding and the effect of melatonin 
administered  in  the  drinking  water  on  the  benzodiazepine  and  125I  iodomelatonin  binding  were 
evaluated in sinaptosomes prepared from the medulla pons and cortex of male CD rats aged 2 months. 
It was observed that melatonin via drinking water significantly enhanced benzodiazepine (3H-RO 15-
1788)  binding  in  the  medulla  pons  and  slightly  reduced  it  in  the  cortex,  but  did  not  affect  125I-
melatonin binding.  
Daily injections of diazepam during 3 weeks reduced markedly  125I-melatonin binding site density in 
the  medulla-ponds  but  not  in  the  cortex  of  male  rats,  whereas  benzodiazepine  binding  was  not 
significantly affected.  
The  combination  of  melatonin  and  diazepam  reversed  the  suppression  by  diazepam  of  125I-
iodomelatonin in the medulla-pons and the suppression by melatonin of benzodiazepine binding in the 
cerebral cortex. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology 
Nervous system 
In  mice,  the  Irwin  test  showed  that  at  doses  >8mg/Kg  melatonin  had  no  behavioural  effects.  At 
16 mg/Kg a slight sedation was observed. Such sedation was also reported in the repeated dose studies 
conducted  by  the  Company  in  rats.  At  doses  of  64,  128  and  256  mg/Kg  decreased  fear,  reactivity, 
muscle  tone  and  hypothermia  were  observed  with  dose-dependent  intensity  and  duration.  At  128 
mg/Kg  it  also  showed  analgesic  activity  in  the  four-plate  test  (Guardiola-Lemaitre  et  al.,  1992, 
Pharmacology Biochemistry and Behaviour, 41, 405). 
Daily administration of 2.5-10mg/Kg melatonin prior to the swimming test significantly reversed the 
increased immobility period that was observed on chronic exposure to swimming test. This effect was 
reported  to  be  comparable  with  that  of  GABA-benzodiazepine  (BZ)  receptor  agonists,  appearing  to 
involve GABA-benzodiazepine receptors (Raghavendra et al., Eur. Neuropsychofarmacol.10(6):473). 
In other studies, acute administration of melatonin did not reveal antidepressant activity.  
Endocrine and reproductive systems 
Melatonin regulates pubertal development in some juvenile mammals. In seasonal breeders, melatonin 
seems to act as either pro-gonadotrophic or as anti-gonadotrophic according to the period of the year 
(autumn-winter/short days or spring-summer/long days respectively. 
Melatonin has also been shown to influence secretion of several hormones in animals and in humans 
in some situations, namely the LH and prolactin, corticosteroids, thyroid hormones and insulin. 
In rats administered 0.1 mg/Kg melatonin s.c. for 4 weeks, Olivares et al.(1989) Arch. Biol. Med. Exp., 
22,  378,  observed  abnormal  progression  of  spermatogenesis  coupled  to  a  decreased  production  of 
testosterone  by  Leydig  cells,  which  were  considered  as  secondary  to  a  decrease  in  LH  hormone 
production  resulting  in  an  impairment  of  the  Leydig  cell  function.  In  female  rats  Liu  and  Meites 
(1973) Endocrinology, 93, 152, observed that a single intravenous dose of melatonin increased serum 
©EMEA 2007 
8/52 
 
 
 
 
 
prolactin  levels.  In  Syrian  hamsters  several  authors  observed  either  decrease  or  an  increase  of  the 
prolactin, FSH and LH hormones. It is possible that the conditions of administration such as the period 
of the year or the time of the day, the duration of the administration period may have influenced the 
results.  
In  hamsters,  endogenous  and  cyclically  administered  melatonin  (0.0025-0.025  µg)  depressed  the 
thyroid  function.  Melatonin  given  to  blinded  hamsters  for  10  weeks  in  the  drinking  water  partially 
restored thyroxin levels and testis weights normally associated with blinding. 
Cardiovascular and respiratory systems 
Melatonin  receptors  were  identified  on  the  anterior  cerebral  and  caudal  arteries  of  rats  and  on  the 
coronary and pulmonary arteries of pigs. 
In rats, a dose-related fall of mean arterial pressure, heart rate and also of brain serotonin release were 
observed in consequence of 30-60 mg/Kg melatonin i.v. Bradicardia was abolished by pre-treatment 
with  bilateral  vagotomy  thus  suggesting  that  it  may  be  mediated  through  a  parasympathetic  action. 
(Chuang et al., 1993, Pharmacology, 47, 91). 
Also studies in porcine and coronary arteries suggest the potential for melatonin to have tensive effects 
(Viswanathan  et  al.,  1992  Neuroendocrinology,  56,  864;  Weekley,  1993,  Pulmonary  Pharmacol.,  6, 
149  ).  In  baboons,  0.3  to  0.4  mg/Kg  melatonin,  i.v.  caused  a  statistically  significant  increase  of  the 
cardiac  output  and  ventricular  ejection  associated  to  a  reduction  in  heart  rate  (Bosman  et  al.,  1991, 
J.Pineal Res.24, 62). 
The Applicant has submitted an evaluation of the cardiovascular and respiratory effects in rats. At a 
dose of 100 mg/Kg a slight decrease of heart rate and blood pressure were observed. The Q-T interval 
of  the  ECG  and  the  respiratory  rate  were  not  changed.  Also  in  humans  the  evaluation  of  ECG  was 
performed and reported as not presenting any effects on the Q-T interval.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In  the  literature  review  provided,  the  secretion  of  melatonin  has  been  shown  to  be  affected  by 
adrenergic  agonists  and  antagonists,  antidepressants,  opiate  agonists  and  antagonists,  prostaglandin 
synthesis inhibitors, benzodiazepines, barbiturates and glucocorticoides.  
In  humans,  co-administration  of  Circadin  with  thioridazine,  imipramine  and  zolpidem  showed 
pharmacodynamic  interaction  (increased  sedation),  with  no  pharmacokinetic  interaction,  while  co-
administration with cimetidine had no pharmacodynamic interaction but increased plasma melatonin 
concentration. This is reflected in the SPC (section 4.5) 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  of  exogenous  melatonin  in  animals  are  available  in  the  literature.  The 
Applicant has conducted toxicity studies in the rats, dogs, and rabbits from which toxicokinetic data 
are obtained.  
In toxicokinetics, plasma levels of melatonin were analysed in rat studies by a validated LC-MS/MS 
method with lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) 20ng/ml. In the rabbit an LC-MS method was used 
with LLOQ 20ng/ml.  In the dog a validated radioimmunoassay (RIA) was used. 
Absorption and bioavailability 
In  the  study  of  Yeleswaram  et  al  (1997)  the  pharmacokinetics  and  bioavailability  of  melatonin  was 
investigated in rats, dogs and monkeys after p.o. and i.v. administration. The results are shown in the 
Table below: 
Parameter 
SD rat 
Beagle dog 
Cynom. monkey 
Dose (mg/kg*) 
AUC (mg.h/l) 
Clearance (L/h/Kg 
Half-life (h) 
Intravenous administration 
2.95 
5.00 
0.81 
2.38 
3.84 
2.11 
0.31 
0.33 
2.98 
1.78 
1.68 
0.57 
©EMEA 2007 
9/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vdss (l/Kg) 
Dose (mg/kg*) 
AUC (mg.h/l) 
Bioavailability 
1.05 
1.48 
Per os administration  
10.00 
2.49 
53.5 
0.98 
0.05 
16.9 
10.3 
3.44 
>100 
1.20 
10.00 
8.85 
>100 
The  mean  oral  bioavailability  of  10  mg/kg  of  melatonin  was  53.5%  in  rats  and  >100%  in  dogs  and 
monkeys.  The  low  bioavailability  (16.9%)  in  low  doses  (1mg/kg)  in  dogs  suggests  non-linear 
pharmacokinetics  in  experimental  animals  and  also  in  humans,  probably  as  a  result  of  first-pass 
metabolism in the liver. 
Distribution  
Melatonin seems to distribute fast through tissues and even after brain injection is was shown, in rats, 
to clear after 5 minutes. The steady state distribution volumes in animals range between 1.05 and 1.48 
L/Kg,  with  a  typical  value  of  0.55  l/Kg  in  man  (0.6-1.0)  at  doses  of  5-10  and  0.08-0.15  µg/Kg, 
respectively.  
Literature data show that in rat and humans most circulating melatonin is bound to albumin. It seems 
also to bind to haemoglobin and calmodulin. 
Metabolism 
According to available data, melatonin appears to be mainly metabolised by CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. 
From  the  chromatographic  analysis  of  urinary  metabolites  obtained  in  rats  administered  i.v.  with 
labelled  melatonin  three  peaks  were  identified,  two  of  them  corresponded  to  the  glucoronic  and 
sulphate conjugates of 6-hydroximelatonin and the third compound was not completely characterised. 
The  major  metabolite  accounting  for  70%-80%  of  the  radioactivity  was  the  sulphate  conjugate  of 
6-hydroxymelatonin  whereas  the  glucoronic  acid  conjugate  represented  5%.  The  unidentified 
metabolite corresponded to 12% of radioactivity. 
In  vitro  metabolism  studies  using  liver  microsomes  also  indicates  that  6-hydroxylation  is  the  major 
route. Also 5-methoxyindoleacetic acid appears to be formed by de-acetylation of melatonin followed 
by de-amination.  
Elimination and excretion 
The main excretion route of the melatonin metabolites is renal. In rats administered i.v. with labelled 
melatonin, after a 48 hour collection of urine and faeces, the total amount of radioactivity in urine was 
60%-70% of the administered melatonin and about 15% was found in faeces.  
Toxicology 
Applicant’s  own  data  together  with  literature  data  are  available  on  acute  toxicity,  repeated  dose 
toxicity, reproductive toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Data from literature points towards a low acute toxicological profile by the oral route, with very high 
LD50 values as determined in rodents (1250 mg/kg and >3200 mg/kg respectively in mice and rats). 
The intravenous LD50 is 180 mg/kg to 472 mg/kg in mice and 356 mg/kg in rats. The main effects 
observed at high doses were sedation, lethargy, and vasodilatation. The higher doses led to impairment 
of righting, placing and flexor reflexes, marked reduction in body temperature and respiratory distress 
preceding death. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  toxicity  of  melatonin  after  repeated  administration  was  evaluated  in  the  rat  and  in  the  dog  in 
company-sponsored studies.  
©EMEA 2007 
10/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rats, the toxicological profile of melatonin after 90-day period of administration was low but very 
low doses were used in the study (0.3, 1.2 and 6 mg/kg/day). The toxicokinetic data from the study 
showed plasma concentrations up to 40 pg/ml, which are lower than those expected to be reached in 
humans,  but  the  time  of  sampling  is  not  specified.  In  this  study  the  only  melatonin-related  effect 
reported was a decreased body weight gain of the animals at mid (males) and high doses (males and 
females). Also decreased testis and increased kidney relative weights were observed at high dose. 
A combined 13-week study in rat with a 4-week recovery period coupled to a 26-week toxicity and a 
104-weeks carcinogenicity phase was submitted in the dossier. The oral dose levels used in this study 
were 0, 15, 75 and150 mg/kg/day). 
In  the  13-weeks  and  the  26  weeks  studies  increased  haemoglobin  concentration  and  platelet  counts 
were  observed  at  75  and  150  mg/Kg/day  treated  animals.  Increased  liver  weights  with  minor 
centrilobular  hepatocytic  hypertrophy  were  observed.  Increased  testes,  prostate  and  epididymides 
weights were seen in mid and high dosed males. Toxicokinetics showed that the systemic exposures of 
the animals were much higher than that expected during human therapeutics.  
At  26  weeks,  macroscopically  dark  thyroid  was  also  recorded  in  several  high  dose  animals. 
Microscopically,  minor  liver  hypertrophy  was  seen  in  some  high  dose  animals  but  reported  as  less 
obvious than in the 13 weeks treated group. 
In  the  6-months  study  in  dogs  where  0.4,  1.5  and  8mg/kg  melatonin  were  used,  increased  serum 
glucose  levels  were  observed  at  some  time  points  of  the  study.  Microscopic  examination  revealed 
pituitary gland and parathyroid cysts, adenomyosis of the uterus, capsular fibrosiderosis of the spleen 
and  cytoplasmatic  rarefaction  of  hepatocytes  consistent  with  the  presence  of  glycogen.  Based  on 
toxicokinetic data the Cmax values obtained with the mid and high doses were high in excess to the 
levels to be reached in man under therapeutics. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The full battery of genotoxicity tests according to ICH standard have been performed. The Ames test, 
in  vitro  gene  mutations  in  mouse  lymphoma  cells,  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration  in  human 
lymphocytes and in vivo mouse micronucleus were all negative.  
Additional  data  from  the  literature  investigating  the  mutagenic  potential  of  melatonin  and  6-
hydroxymelatonin  using  a  reduced  Ames  test  (three  strains  of  Salmonella  typhimurium)  concluded 
also that both molecules were not mutagenic (Neville et al, 1989, Journal of Pineal Research, 6:73-
76). Further literature data report that melatonin and two related compounds, 6-hydroxymelatonin, the 
principal  metabolite  of  melatonin,  and  5-methoxyindoleacetric  acid  (5-MIAA)  were  screened  for 
relevant  information  associating  these  chemicals  with  respect  to  mutagenic  or  carcinogenic  effects 
(DEREK system). No structural alerts were identified. 
Overall, it is concluded that melatonin does not present any genotoxic potential. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  melatonin  was  evaluated  in  one  long-term  rat  study  and  a  short  term 
mouse study (US, NTP study) 
In  the  combined  rat  chronic  toxicity  and  oncogenicity  study  (104  weeks),  an  increased  incidence  of 
pituitary adenomas in high dose males was reported with statistical significance at p<0.036. Since this 
type  of  tumour  is  classified  as  common  in  the  rat,  the  statistical  significance  is  below  the  value  of 
triggering concern (p<0.01).  
In  addition,  thyroid  tumors  were  observed  at  the  higher  doses  in  rats  and  the  CHMP  requested  a 
mechanism explanation. 
©EMEA 2007 
11/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Incidence of thyroid neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions in the 104 rat carcinogenicity 
Male 
Neoplastica 
15/100 (15.0%) 
5/17 (29.4%) 
8/29 (27.6%) 
13/50 (26.0%) 
Control 
15 mg/kr 
75 mg/kg 
150 mg.kg 
a B-C-cell adenomas + all thyroid carcinomas 
b B-follicular cell hypertrophy 
Non-neoplasticb 
10/100 (10%) 
3/17 (17.6%) 
12/29 (41.4%) 
21/50 (42%) 
Female 
Neoplastica 
11/99 (11.1%) 
5/22 (22.7%) 
2/29 (6.9%) 
4/50 (8.0%) 
Non-neoplasticb 
2/99 (2%) 
0/22 (0%) 
13/29 (44.8%) 
14/50 (28%) 
Liver  enzyme  induction  was  suggested  as  the  possible  mechanism  but  no  supportive  data  had  been 
provided. The applicant has been requested to provide animal data on hepatic and thyroid findings that 
might allow a mechanistic association in both organs. 
An  increased  incidence  of  thyroid  macroscopic  and  microscopic  findings  in  treated  animals  when 
compared to the controls was apparent but not clearly correlated with liver findings. 
The effect of melatonin on liver enzymes as discussed by the applicant, based on data collected from 
studies with human material as well as from published animal studies, suggest that thyroid hormone 
metabolism by the CYP enzyme family is not probable.  
However, since melatonin has been shown in two rat studies (newly presented) to increase the levels 
of  enzymes  involved  in  thyroxin  conjugation  (glutathione  S-transferase  activity  and  glucuronyl 
transferase),  this  could  result  in  increased  elimination  leading  to  increased  TSH  by  feed  back 
mechanism,  with  the  consequent  increased  thyroid  cell  proliferation.  Therefore,  based  on  this 
additional information provided, the proposed mechanism for increased thyroid tumorigenesis appears 
reinforced  but  not  proven,  since  data  from  direct  measurements  of  thyroxin  as  well  as  TSH  in 
melatonin  treated  animals  has  not  been  provided.  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  these  data  in 
post-authorisation as a follow-up measure. 
A short-term carcinogenicity study in transgenic animals on the behalf of US-NTP, published in 2000 
(Rao et al, 2000, Breast Cancer Research and Treatment, 64:287) was also provided.  
The  study  was  performed  in  hemizygous  TG.NK  female  mice  with  MMTV/c-neu  oncogene.  The 
melatonin  treated  groups  received  50-200mg/kg  melatonin  or  melatonin  50mg/kg  combined  with 
0.10ml flaxseed oil. Melatonin did not show any tumorigenic potential in this model. 
•  Reproductive Toxicity 
The  reproductive  toxicity  profile  of  melatonin  has  been  characterised  through  Applicant  sponsored 
studies and published studies (US National Toxicity Programme (NTP)) 
Fertility and early embryonic development in the rat. 
24  animals/sex/dose  were  treated  orally  by  gavage  with  0,  15,  55  or  200  mg/kg/day  of  melatonin. 
There  were  no  reports  of  effects  on  embryo-foetal  development  following  the  treatment  of  the  pre-
mated  rats  at  the  doses  used.  The  mean  incidence  of  pre-implantation  loss  in  the  high  dose  group 
(15%) was greater than that of concurrent controls (7.5%) and outside the recent background control 
range (8.7% to 14.5%) but the values did not show  statistical difference. Post-implantation loss was 
not affected by the treatment. The oestrous cycle, mating performance and fertility were not changed 
by treatment. Also the sperm number, motility and morphology were unaffected by the treatment. 
It  is  known  from  the  literature,  that  in  many  mammals,  melatonin  controls  the  reproductive  cycle. 
Melatonin influences the levels of LH and FSH across many species. In women it can inhibit ovulation 
(Voordouw, 1992, J.Clin Endocrinol and Metab; 74(1):108). 
Embryo-foetal development 
©EMEA 2007 
12/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rat Developmental Toxicity 
In  a  NTP  rat  study,  melatonin  was  administered  by  gavage  to  25  timed-mated  CD®  female  rats  on 
gestation day 6 to 19, at doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg/day. 
No  maternal  deaths  were  observed  and  the  clinical  signs  reported  were  classified  as  minimal. 
Transient reduction of the body weight gain and relative decreased food intake were observed at the 
high dose group. Increased relative maternal liver weight was also observed in the animals from mid 
and high dose. Absolute liver and gravid uterine weights were not affected. The endpoints related to 
embryo/foetal  growth,  viability  or  morphological  development  were  not  modified  by  melatonin 
treatment.  Based  on  the  lack  of  embryo/foetal  toxicity,  the  developmental  toxicity  NOAEL  of 
melatonin  was  considered  as  200  mg/kg/day.  Based  on  the  slight  maternal  toxicity  reported  at  200 
mg/kg/day treated animals, the maternal toxicity NOAEL was considered as 100 mg/Kg/day. 
Rabbit Developmental Toxicity 
A  study  of  the  embryo-foetal  development  in  the  NZW  rabbit  was  performed  by  the  applicant  with 
oral  administration  of  melatonin  at  0  (control),  15,  50  and  150  mg/kg/day  from  days  7  to  19  of 
gestation. 
There  were  no  dose-related  maternal  effects  at  any  dose.  No  effects  were  observed  on  pre  or  post-
implantation  loss  and  mean  number  of  foetuses/female.  Foetal,  litter  and  placental  weighs  were  not 
affected  by  treatment.  Visceral  and  skeletal  malformations  and/or  variations  were  observed  in  all 
groups  including  controls.    Some  of  such  malformations/variations  showed  a  trend  or  a  significant 
increase in the treated groups, such as absence of lung or iliac alignment/caudal shift of vertebrae at 
high dose corresponding to an approximate AUC of 24000 to 45000 ng.h/ml. When compared to the 
AUC values to be achieved in man (<4 ng.h/ml), very high exposure ratios were reached in this study. 
An  abundant  literature  can  also  be  found,  addressing  the  effects  of  melatonin  in  the  reproductive 
function, using oral or sc route in several species, many of them in seasonal breeders or in cattle where 
melatonin is used to influence the reproductive process through a control of the oestrus cycle. 
Pre-and postnatal developmental study in rats 
24  pre-mated  females  were  treated  with  0,  15,  55  and  200  mg/kg/day  of  melatonin  from  Day  6  of 
gestation to Day 21 post-partum, inclusive. 
The treatment had no effect on parturition and outcome of pregnancy but the subsequent growth and 
viability of the high dose offspring was slightly reduced during lactation. 
At  weaning,  a  slight  reduction  of  offspring  maturity  was  observed  in  all  dose  groups,  but  the 
subsequent  F1  development  was  not  modified.  Therefore,  melatonin  intake  during  lactation  is  to  be 
avoided. This is reflected in the SPC (section 4.6). 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
Toxicokinetic parameters in rats 
Table:  Toxicokinetic parameters for melatonin derived from composite plasma profiles 
at days 1 and 7. 
Dose 
mg/kg/day 
15 
75 
Sex 
M 
M 
Cmax ng/ml 
AUC(20-t) 
ng.h/ml 
D1 
2154.1 
11963 
D7 
1269.5 
7399.9 
D1 
95090 
1027265 
D7 
43910 
454868 
©EMEA 2007 
13/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150 
15 
75 
150 
M 
F 
F 
F 
20316 
1242.7 
14508 
24931 
11382 
1637.6 
9628.7 
19608 
2568891 
53612 
1268844 
2458843 
1159593 
40182 
720418 
1918896 
The  values  of  AUC  increased  more  than  proportionally  to  the  dose  and  after  repeated  exposure  the 
values  were  reduced  as  compared  to  those  at  day  1.  The  plasma  concentrations  measured  along  the 
study  decreased  along  the  exposure  time.  No  further  AUC  values  were  determined.  The  animals 
systemic exposures along the study are therefore not evaluable and appropriate exposure ratios vs man 
cannot be calculated. The AUC0-24h after 2 mg melatonin in human is 3846 pg.h/ml. 
Toxicokinetic parameters in dog 
Dose (mg/Kg) 
Dose (mg/Kg) 
0 
0.4 
1.5 
8.0 
0 
0.4 
1.5 
8.0 
Table:  AUC vs time (ng.h.ml) 
Day 1 
-- 
14±8 
128±48 
1493±544 
Day 85 
0.469±0.238 
15±7 
178±47 
3819±883 
Table:  Values of Cmax (ng/ml) 
Day 1 
-- 
27±17 
186±127 
2600±1269 
Day 85 
-- 
16±4 
313±66 
3239±1046 
Day 175 
0.072±0.01 
21±10 
183±82 
3424±905 
Day 175 
-- 
33±15 
286±130 
4614±932 
The AUC and Cmax values increased with dose in a non-linear manner (more than proportional). 
There was no relevant time or sex difference in dogs. 
•  Local tolerance  
No specific studies were performed, which is acceptable considering the oral route of administration 
and the absence of gastro-intestinal findings in the general toxicology studies. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  initial  environmental  risk  assessment  included  only  a  calculation  of  PECsurface  water  which  was 
wrong  (0.00002µg/l  instead  of  0.00002mg/l  for  an  intended  maximum  daily  dose  of  4  mg).  The 
correct  value  is  above  the  trigger  value  of  0.01µg/l  and  therefore  phase  II  studies  are  in  principle 
needed. The applicant was requested to discuss the need for such studies. 
The  re-calculated  the  PEC  surface  water  on  the  basis  of  the  new  posology  (2mg/day)  and  the 
administration  schedule  proposed  (3  weeks  followed  by  2  months  interval,  resulting  in  15  weeks  of 
exposure),  resulted  in  a  value  below  the  trigger  limit.  Therefore  further  phase  II  studies  were  not 
requested by the CHMP considering that Circadin, at the recommended posology, did not present any 
potential risk to the environment. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
While  the  current  understanding  of  endogenous  melatonin  is  substantial,  especially  regarding 
melatonin's involvement in the circadian timing system, its putative role in regulating sleep and how 
this role is mediated remains unclear. In vitro, melatonin is described in the literature as acting at the 
©EMEA 2007 
14/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
central  nervous  system  level,  modulating  the  synchronisation  of  the  biological  clock  and  promoting 
sleep  through  stabilisation  and  phase-shifting  effects  on  the  suprachiasmatic  nucleus  of  the 
hypothalamus possibly involving interaction with melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptor subtypes. In vivo, 
studies in animal looked essentially at sleep induction effects, but the results are difficult to interpret 
and extrapolate to humans. 
The  mean  oral  bioavailability  varies  from  17%  to  100  %  depending  on  the  dose  and  the  animal 
species.  Melatonin  is  promptly  distributed  in  tissues  and  rapidly  metabolised  in  the  liver  mainly  by 
CYP1A  enzymes.  The  main  excretion  route  is  renal  accounting  to  60-70%  of  the  dose  in  the  rat 
excreted as sulfo-conjugates (70-80% of excreted fraction) or gluco-conjugates (5%). 
Melatonin has a low toxicity after single administration. In repeat-dose toxicity (rats and dog) effects 
on the liver (hypertrophy) and genital tract of male rats and female dogs were observe at exposure in 
large excess of the intended human exposure at therapeutic dose. 
In  reproductive  studies,  melatonin  induced  some  toxicological  effects  on  the  embryo-foetal 
development  in rabbits and on the postnatal developmental in rats. Therefore, the use of Circadin is 
not recommended during pregnancy and lactation. This is reflected in sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SPC. 
The carcinogenic potential, has not been completely elucidated in view of the thyroid findings in the 
rat  carcinogenicity  study  and  further  mechanistic  data  will  be  provided  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment.  Since  no  genotoxic  properties  have  been  identified  for  melatonin,  and  as  the  animal 
exposure was in large excess to the expected one in the clinic, considering also that the treatment is 
not proposed to be continuous for long periods, and provided that this well established mechanism of 
thyroid tumorigenesis in rodents can be clearly proven by the applicant (follow-up measure), the risk 
to humans appears to be minimal. 
Overall,  the  non-clinical  safety  profile  of  melatonin  appears  acceptable  for  the  proposed  short-term 
indication (one 2mg tablet/day for 3 weeks).  
3. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
An oral prolonged-release formulation of melatonin (Circadin. 2 mg Tablets) was developed, in order 
to circumvent the fast clearance of the hormone and to provide a melatonin profile in the blood more 
closely matched to the normal physiological profile.  
Dissolution profiles have been used to select the most appropriate formulation, to establish the slow 
release  character  of  the  formulation,  to  ascertain  similarity  on  batches  produced  in  different 
manufacturing sites and to establish a linear in vitro-in vivo correlation (level A). In order to establish 
profile  similarity,  F2  values  for  32  comparative  dissolution  profiles  involving  different  batches  of 
melatonin  tablets  were  provided  in  accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  bioavailability  and 
bioequivalence. The results show that at each of the three pH conditions, all comparisons had an F2 
value  of  greater  than  50,  indicating  that  the  different  sources  of  tablets  resulted  in  similar  in  vitro 
dissolution data. 
The pharmacokinetic profile of Circadin 2 mg was studied in 3 specific studies in healthy volunteers. 
In one, an interaction with food was explored. In addition, a comprehensive review of the extensive 
literature published on melatonin pharmacokinetics has been provided. 
©EMEA 2007 
15/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In one of the studies (Kitzes et al), the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of Circadin 2mg, prolonged 
release was investigated in a three way study in 8 healthy male volunteers. 
The study was divided in 3 parts: basal- in the first 24 h beginning at 10:00 am and ending at 10:00 am 
after 24h. The basal levels of melatonin in blood and 6- MTS excretion in urine were measured. In the 
second  phase  Melatonin  2  mg  were  administered  at  10:00  am  without  food  and  the  same 
measurements  were  done.  In  the  third  phase  Melatonin  2mg  was  administered  at  10:00  am  with  a 
standard meal. 
The  circadian  rhythm  of  plasma  levels  of  endogenous  melatonin  is  clear  from  the  analysis  of  basal 
plasma levels during an entire 24 h period. Cmax is reached ca. 18 hours after the start of the study 
(ca.  4  o’clock  pm).  Comparison  of  plasma  levels  following  administration  of  2  mg  melatonin  with 
basal levels gives a 6 fold difference in AUC and 8 fold difference in Cmax 
However, because of the design of the study (no cross-over) and the small number of subjects, it is not 
possible  to  draw  firm  conclusions  on  the  food  effect,  subject  variability  and  period  effects  in  this 
study. 
The results are summarised in the table below: 
Table: Melatonin pharmacokinetic parameters, 2 mg melatonin, prolonged release 
AUC 0-24h (pg.h/ml) 
Cmax (pg/ml) 
Tmax (hours) 
Plateau time (h) 
Basal state 
Mean ± sd 
Median 
Range 
Drug fasting 
Mean ± sd 
Median 
Range 
Drug with meal 
Mean ± sd 
Median 
Range 
448±288 
375 
150-1017 
2527±1200 
2257 
823-4478 
2405±1469 
2010 
618-5252 
58±32 
51 
30-126 
427±211 
393 
180-855 
483±253 
390 
205-1020 
18.5±2.1 
18 
16-22 
1.6±0.8 
1.5 
0.5-3 
2.6±1.1 
2.5 
1-4 
6.9±1.7 
6.6 
4.7-9.6 
5.1±2.3 
4.4 
3.1-9.9 
3.5±1.4 
3.1 
1.7-5-5 
The  rate  and  extent  of  urinary  excretion  of  melatonin’s  main  metabolite  (6-sulphametoxymelatonin) 
has been measured as well:  
MT 6-S pharmacokinetic parameters 
Daily excretion (mg/24h) Maximal excretion (µg/h) 
Time of max.excretion  
(h) 
Basal state 
Mean ± sd 
Range 
Drug fasting 
Mean ± sd 
Range 
Drug with meal 
Mean ± sd 
Range 
0.03±0.02 
0.01-0.05 
3.2±0.7 
2.5-4.7 
2.9±0.7 
1.8-3.9 
4.5±2.7 
2.1-10.6 
737±233 
526-1318 
743-251 
526-1318 
19.3±0.7 
19-21 
2.8±1.3 
1-5 
4.3±1 
3-5 
Analytical methods 
The measurement of plasmatic melatonin and of the metabolite 6-SMT used a radioimmunoassay and 
an ELISA method for 6-SMT in the urine. Although the validation reports are not entirely satisfactory, 
the CHMP considered that the studies have been performed under acceptable conditions. 
©EMEA 2007 
16/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Absorption 
The absorption and bioavailability of orally administered  melatonin in humans has been extensively 
reported in the literature. Low oral bioavailability has repeatedly been shown, typically in the range 
10-20%, and is associated with high inter-individual variability due to extensive first-pass metabolism. 
Although there seems to be considerable variability, the absolute bioavailability of melatonin appears 
to range from 10 to 56% with figures of 15% and 30% reported by other studies at doses less than or 
equal to 4 mg. At higher doses, some of the reported data reveals inconsistencies, and high variability. 
Published data shows that melatonin has a short half-life in animals and humans. Peak plasma levels 
are reached 20-30 minutes after oral administration and are maintained for approximately 90 minutes. 
The plasma elimination t1/2 in humans is around 40-50 minutes. 
The applicant performed three studies  covering food  effects,  comparison with an oral solution, dose 
proportionality and gender effects.  
In  one  of  the  studies,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  Circadin  2  mg  was  compared  under  both  fasting  and 
non-fasting conditions to a 2 mg solution of melatonin. The participants were healthy male and female 
volunteers, aged between 55 and 69 years of age. 
The bioavailability of the solution under fed conditions, as expressed by the relative fed/fasted AUCI, 
was  slightly  higher  than  the  corresponding  fasted  administration:  109.0%  (90%  confidence  interval 
87.6- 135.7%). 
Following Circadin 2 mg oral administration Tmax occurs after 3.0 hours in a fed state. Food reduced 
the  peak  plasma  concentration  of  melatonin  from  the  tablet  and  solution  formulations  by 
approximately 13% and 50% respectively with no apparent difference in the rate of absorption in both 
adults older than 55 years and in younger volunteers. Food also delayed the time to the peak plasma 
concentration  by  a  median  difference  of  2.25  hours  from  the  tablet  formulation,  but  not  from  the 
solution. 
•  Distribution 
The  in  vitro  plasma  protein  binding  of  melatonin  is  61.2%.  Circadin  is  mainly  bound  to  albumin, 
alpha1-  acid  glycoprotein  and  high  density  lipoprotein.  The  binding  to  the  other  serum  proteins  is 
insignificant.  The  melatonin  binding  was  constant  over  the  range  of  the  studied  concentrations  in 
serum. Literature data indicates that melatonin is distributed in all body fluids and is accessible at all 
tissues. The mean binding of melatonin to erythrocytes is 49.0%.  
Melatonin is not strongly or extensively bound to plasma proteins, therefore protein binding effects on 
pharmacokinetics are not expected to be significant. 
•  Metabolism and Elimination 
The  literature  reviewed  by  the  applicant  provides  information  regarding  the  metabolic  fate  of 
melatonin. Melatonin is 90% metabolised in the liver involving mainly CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 (while 
CYP2C9  andCYP2C19  are  assumed  to  be  less  important)  yielding  6-hydroxymelatonin  whose 
sulphate conjugate (6-sulphatoxy melatonin) accounts for 80% of the dose excreted in the urine. The 
other main metabolite results from melatonin O-demethylation, yielding N-acteylserotonin. No figures 
are provided as to the extent of urine excretion of the secondary metabolite, mainly the glucuronide 
conjugate  of  6-hydroxymelatonin.  From  one  of  the  studies  reviewed,  it  appears  that  repeated  dose 
administration does not alter the metabolic profile of melatonin. 
©EMEA 2007 
17/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No conclusion regarding dose proportionality can be firmly drawn. Three doses have been studied (1 
mg,  4  mg  and  8  mg).  The  1  mg  dose  was  obtained  by  halving  one  2  mg  tablet.  This  introduces 
uncontrollable factors (dose inaccuracy, interference with the matrix releasing mechanism) that make 
the results obtained with this dose unreliable. The 4 mg and 8 mg doses appear to be proportional, but 
with only 2 points the results are inconclusive.  
Therefore since the safety at the higher doses and the proportionality between the recommended dose 
(2  mg)  and  the  higher  doses  of  4  mg  and  8  mg  have  not  been  established,  the  applicant  decided  to 
remove from the SPC the claim to use doses higher than 2 mg. 
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
A study on patients with end stage renal disease under chronic haemodialysis showed that melatonin 
plasma concentrations were comparable to the ones from healthy subjects. However, other stages of 
renal insufficiency not compensated with haemodialysis have not been studied. Therefore there is no 
evidence  that  renal  insufficiency  does  not  affect  melatonin  elimination.  Consequently,  it  is 
recommended in the SPC that caution should be used when melatonin is administered to such patients. 
Impaired hepatic function 
In the literature, one study examined plasma melatonin levels in patients with cirrhosis and subclinical 
hepatic encephalopathy and found an abnormal plasma melatonin pattern in these patients compared 
with healthy controls. In the hepatically impaired, the onset of the increase in plasma melatonin levels 
and  the  melatonin  peak  during  the  night  were  both  displaced  to  later  hours.  Furthermore,  plasma 
melatonin levels in patients with cirrhosis were significantly increased during daylight hours. In a later 
study,  the  same  authors  measured  nocturnal  urinary  6-sulphatoxymelatonin  excretion  in  21 
hospitalized  cirrhotic  patients  with  normal  renal  function.  The  cirrhotic  patients  had  a  significantly 
decreased total excretion of 6- sulphatoxymelatonin compared with controls (median value of 8.28 µg, 
(range  0.85  to  28.1  µg)  compared  to  12.21  µg  (range  9.12  to  29.04  µg;  P  <  0.05).  Because  of  the 
existing elevated melatonin levels, it is believed that patients with hepatic impairment are unlikely to 
benefit from  therapy with oral  melatonin. Therefore, it is  mentioned in the SPC that Circadin is not 
recommended for use in patients with hepatic impairment. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender, smoking and age 
A 3-4- fold increase in Cmax is apparent for women compared to men. A five-fold variability in Cmax 
between different members of the same sex has also been observed. No pharmacodynamic differences 
between males and females were found despite differences in blood levels. 
CYP  1A2  isozyme  can  be  induced  by  smoking  and  therefore  decrease  melatonin  levels.  This  is 
mentioned in the SPC. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
There are 4 studies conducted by Neurim pharmaceuticals to elucidate potential drug interactions with 
Circadin, namely with zolpidem, cimetidine, thioridazine and imipramine. 
Interaction studies between Circadin and zolpidem showed an expected transitory pharmacodynamic 
effect one hour following concomitant administration, resulting in increased impairment of attention, 
memory and co-ordination compared to zolpidem alone. 
PK drug/drug interactions have been found with 5- or 8-methoxypsoralen, caffeine, cigarette smoking, 
testosterone and oestrogen. 
Melatonin  metabolism  is  mainly  mediated  by  CYP1A2,  a  Cytochrome  P450  isozyme  known  to  be 
inhibited  by  fluvoxamine,  ciprofloxacin  and  other  quinolones,  and  induced  by  several  drugs 
(e.g. caffeine,  carbamazepine,  omeprazole)  and  cigarette  smoking.  CYP1A2  substrates  such  as 
theophylline and clozapine may also give rise to interactions. 
Inhibition and induction potential of melatonin on CYP450 enzymes has been studied in vitro at the 
request of CHMP. 
The main CYP450 enzymes (CYP1A, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A) have been studied. The results show 
that CYP1A is the main CYP enzyme inhibited by melatonin with 48% inhibition from control. This is 
in agreement with published literature. Induction studies indicate that both CYP1A and CYP3A (and 
consequently CYP2C) enzymes are not induced by melatonin. 
Concerning  adrenergic  agonists/antagonists,  opiate  agonists/antagonists,  anti-depressant  drugs, 
prostaglandin inhibitors, benzodiazepines, tryptophan and alcohol, data in the literature regarding their 
effect  on  endogenous  melatonin  levels  show  that  these  active  substances  affect  the  endogenous 
secretion of melatonin in the pineal gland but not its metabolism. 
The  SPC  section  on  drug/drug  interactions  adequately  reflect  the  findings  in  the  literature  and  from 
studies performed by the applicant 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The applicant did not conduct any studies specifically aimed at elucidating the mechanism of action of 
melatonin.  There  is  a  huge  body  of  scientific  studies  that  pretend  to  clarify  some  aspect  of  the 
mechanism  of  action  of  melatonin.  However  these  studies  are  heterogeneous  in  the  formulation  and 
doses  used  and  at  present,  the  mechanism  of  action  of  melatonin,  most  likely  multi-factorial,  still 
remains unknown. 
The mechanism by which melatonin produces sleepiness in humans is unclear. Evidence suggests that 
exogenous melatonin has a short half-life and it penetrates the blood-brain-barrier. 
The hypnotic effect of melatonin might be related with: 
a)  Thermoregulatory  mechanisms  –  by  lowering  core  body  temperature  melatonin  may  reduce 
arousal and increase sleep-propensity; 
b)  Modification of brain levels of monoamine neurotransmitters. It is known that melatonin and 
its analogues do not interact with benzodiazepines or cannabinoid receptors; 
c)  Modification of the phase of circadian rhythm; 
©EMEA 2007 
19/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d)  Opposite  effects  on  GABA-A  receptors  in  specific  brain  areas:  GABA-A  receptors  in 
suprachiasmatic  nucleus  are  potentiated  via  MeIIa  receptors,  while  they  are  inhibited  in  the 
hypothalamus via MeIIb receptors. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is the major hormone produced by the pineal gland. The 
concentration  of  the  hormone  in  blood  is  increased  during  the  hours  of  darkness,  while  a  low 
concentration occurs during the day.  Because of its possible role in influencing the circadian rhythm 
of sleep, melatonin has been used for treating sleep disorders. 
Melatonin is metabolised to 6-hydroxy-melatonin in the liver and the main metabolite excreted is 6-
sulphatoxy-melatonin. Isolated measurements of melatonin are difficult to interpret given its circadian 
secretion,  however  urinary  excretion  of  6-sulphatoxy-melatonin  may  be  helpful  in  studying  pineal 
function. 
The  therapeutic  exploratory  studies  described  later  in  this  document  contribute  to  the  availability  of 
data on sleep effects. 
Clinical efficacy  
Following  the  withdrawal  of  the  first  MAA  for  Circadin  (see  Introduction),  the  Applicant  has 
submitted  a  new  MAA  package  that  includes  all  the  data  that  were  submitted  in  the  first  MAA  and 
additional data extracted from the new studies performed during 2003-2005. 
Three  additional  studies,  performed  during  the  period  2002-2005  were  submitted.  These  studies 
appear under the code names NEURIM-VIIIa, NEURIM-VIII & NEURIM-IX.  
NEURIM-IX is included in order to support the efficacy of Circadin, for the indication of “treatment 
of poor quality of sleep in patients suffering from primary insomnia”. 
NEURIM-VIIIa, has been performed in order to demonstrate “assay sensitivity of the used assessment 
tools in the pivotal studies through the use of an active comparator hypnotic”. 
Finally NEURIM-VIII was discontinued, due to non-optimal rate of enrollment of patients. Therefore 
the data from this study are being used only to enrich the safety database of the compound. 
The data package includes the following new items: 
Efficacy Study  
Neurim-IX  
To determine the efficacy and safety of 2 mg Circadin once 
daily in patients >55 years old with insomnia for 3 weeks 
treatment. Double blind placebo controlled, randomized 
two arms study 
PR: 2 mg and  
placebo in DB phase 
Special Populations and a Safety Studies  
NEU951005a   To determine the efficacy and safety of Circadin once daily 
PR: 2 mg or placebo 
in diabetic patients suffering from insomnia Double blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomized cross-over  
NEU BP  
To determine the efficacy and safety of Circadin once daily 
in patients with nocturnal hypertension (n=38)  
PR: 2 mg or placebo 
NEU201005  
To determine the efficacy and safety of Circadin once daily 
in patients with end stage renal disease  
PR: 2 mg or placebo 
©EMEA 2007 
20/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurim-VIII   To determine the efficacy and safety of 2 mg Circadin once 
daily in patients > 55 years old with insomnia for 3 weeks 
treatment. Double blind placebo controlled, randomized 
two arms study (discontinued due to problems in patients 
recruitment)  
PR: 2 mg and 
placebo in DB 
phase.  
External Comparator Study - Methodology Validation  
Neurim VIIIa  To determine the efficacy and safety of 10 mg zolpidem 
once daily in patients > 55 years old with placebo 
controlled, randomized two arms study. 
Zolpidem 10 mg and 
placebo in DB 
phase.  
•  Exploratory studies 
The applicant conducted 5 small, short duration studies as exploratory trials with the aim of validating 
trial  methodology and a sleep laboratory study (Neurim I). This last study is also considered by the 
applicant, to be a phase III pivotal study. 
Table:  Early Investigational and Pilot Studies 
Study No. 
Location 
Study No 1 
Israel 
Study No. 2  
Israel 
Study No. 3 
Israel 
Study No. 4  
Israel 
Study No 5 
Israel 
Study Design  Subjects 
Inclusion 
Dosage /Duration 
DB, PC, R,  
three-way CO 
PC, SB 
Three groups: 
 8 (4M, 4F), ave. age: 
73; 
18 (6M, 12F) avg. age: 
81 
25 (19M, 6F) ave. age 
71 
14 patients 
Sex/age not stated 
SB,  comparison 
between CR and 
FR 
DB,,, PC, R 
51 patients 
Age/sex not stated 
10   (M) 
independent insomniacs  
institutionalised insomniacs;  
elderly non-insomniacs  
Probable Alzheimer’s disease 
with reported sleep 
disturbances 
Healthy volunteers suffering 
from Delayed Sleep Phase 
Syndrome (DSPS) 
Healthy volunteers 
CR, FR:2 mg/day 
(one week) 
2 mg/day (one week) 
CR: ½, 1, 2 mg/day 
FR: 1, 2 mg/day 
CR 2mg/day, FR ½, 1, 2 
mg/day   (3 days) 
DB, PC, CO 
12,  
Aged 76 (SD 8) years 
elderly subjects complaining 
of insomnia 
CR:2 mg/day (3 weeks), 
One week washout 
NEU30424 
The Netherlands 
MC, PC, R, two 
period CO 
N = 26 enrolled, 18 
randomised; 16 
completed. 
55-85 years, 
Elderly patients with 
insomnia and melatonin 
deficiency  
Circadin 2 mg/day  
One week placebo run 
in.  Period 1, 4 week 
treatment period.  After 
1 week washout, 4 week 
Treatment Period 2. 
DB-Double-blind, SB- single blind, PC-placebo controlled, R – randomised, CO- crossover. 
CR – Controlled release, FR - fast release 
Neurim I – sleep inducing and maintaining efficacy of Circadin in elderly insomniacs, a double-blind, 
placebo controlled, parallel group sleep laboratory study. 
This  is  a  double-blind  (DB),  placebo  controlled  (PC),  parallel  group design  (PGD),  sleep  laboratory 
study. The study has 2 phases: 2 weeks run-in, 3 weeks DB, PC, PGD and 3 weeks withdrawal period. 
According with the following schema: 
PLACEBO 
PLACEBO 
NO TREATMENT 
CIRCADIN 2MG 
NO TREATMENT 
Run-in: 2 W 
Treatment: 3W 
Washout: 3W 
©EMEA 2007 
21/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  patients  enrolled  were  male  or  female  over  55  years  of  age  suffering  from  primary  insomnia 
according with the DSM-IV criteria. They were otherwise healthy.  
The  primary  variable  was  a  polysomnography  parameter  -  the  Total  Duration  of  Awakenings  After 
Sleep Onset (DWASO).  
As secondary objectives: Circadin versus placebo was compared in all other hypnographic variables, 
in all night spectral EEG, actimetric parameters and sleep/wake quality questionnaires plus in diurnal 
psychomotor  and  neurocognitive  tasks.  The  effects  of  wash-out  in  all  of  the  mentioned  tests  (they 
were measured at two occasions- early withdrawal and late withdrawal ; safety evaluation.  
The sample size was 40 patients (20/group). 
Results: 
1.  Polysomnographic variables 
The results on the primary outcome of this study – DWASO – showed no difference with placebo. 
Secondary outcomes: 
At  end  of  treatment,  an  effect  of  Circadin  is  shown  over  some  sleep  induction  polysomnographic 
variables:  sleep  onset  latency  (SL)  was  shortened  by 9  min  on  average  (p=0.011),  duration  of  wake 
prior  sleep  onset  (DWAPSO)  and  DWAPSO  as  %  of  Time  spent  asleep  (TSA)  [DWAPSOP]  are 
decreased  by  about  50%  under  Circadin  in  comparison  to  placebo  or  intra-group  baseline  values 
(p=0.011 and p=0.02 respectively). 
No  difference  between  Circadin  and  placebo  were  found  in  a  number  of  other  polysomnographic 
variables:  
sleep maintenance variables: number of awakenings prior to sleep onset-WASO,  
sleep efficiency – SEF,  
• 
• 
•  number of stage shifts – STSH  
•  variables assessing sleep induction and sleep maintenance at early and late withdrawal  
2. Other secondary variables 
There was no difference between groups for the duration of the different sleep stages, all night spectral 
EEG, actimetric parameters (Somnitor) and sleep/wake quality questionnaires. 
Sleep diaries showed that 20% of the Circadin group exhibit advanced phase that reverted during the 
withdrawal period. The difference of this parameter to placebo is statistically significant. Significant 
treatment  effects  for  the Critical  Flicker  fusion  test  under  Circadin  vs. placebo  were  observed  at  the 
end of treatment and late withdrawal. There is also a significant treatment effect for the Total reaction 
time in all steps of the trial. 
In conclusion, the primary variable in this trial failed to reach significance. An effect of Circadin over 
sleep induction parameters is present during the treatment phase and they revert to close to baseline 
during  withdrawal.  The  effect  size  is  around  50%.  However  this  is  an  exploratory  trial,  with  small 
sample  size  and  it  is  based  on  polysomnographic  evaluation.  It  is  then  just  a  hypothesis  generating 
study. 
•  Dose response studies 
The clinical development program contains two dose ranging studies (Neurim IV and Neurim V) with 
one long-term open-label safety follow-up (Neurim V). The primary measure of efficacy in the dose -
ranging and long-term safety was based on quality of sleep derived from the Leeds Sleep Evaluation 
Questionnaire (LSEQ). 
©EMEA 2007 
22/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurim V 
(982001) 
France, 
Israel 
Neurim IV 
France 
Dose ranging. 
Evaluate safety and 
efficacy of Circadin 
1 mg, 2 mg and 5 
mg compared to 
placebo based on the 
QOS variables of 
the LSEQ 
Dose ranging. 
Evaluate safety and 
efficacy of Circadin 
0.2 mg, 0.5 mg, 2 
mg and 5 mg 
compared to placebo 
based on the QOS 
variables of the 
LSEQ. 
Multi-centre, 
randomised, double-
blind, placebo 
controlled, dose 
ranging, parallel 
group. Long term (12 
month) open lable 
extention with 
Circadin 2 mg.  
Multi-centre, 
randomised, double-
blind, placebo 
controlled, dose 
ranging, parallel 
group. 
Randomised: 263 
ITT: 257 
PP: 214 
Adult insomniac 
patients according to 
DSM-IV criteria, aged 
≥20 years to ≥80 years. 
Randomised: 393 
ITT: 393 
PP: 316 
Insomniac patients 
according to DSM-IV 
criteria, aged ≥55 years. 
Test: Circadin 1 mg, 2 mg and 
5 mg Tablets 
Control: Placebo matching 
Circadin 
6 week DB, followed by long 
term (up to 52 weeks) open label 
treatment with Circadin 2 mg. 
Test: Circadin 0.2 mg, 0.5 mg, 
2 mg and 5 mg Tablets. 
Control: Placebo matching 
Circadin 
The Leeds Sleep Evaluation Questionnaire (LSEQ) is a  widely used standardized instrument for the 
measurement of sleep difficulties in clinical settings and like other standardized questionnaires for the 
same  purpose  consists  of  several  well  defined  components  (Hindmarch  and  Parrott,  1978).  It 
comprises ten individual visual analogue scales (100mm) which have been shown by factor analysis to 
assess  four  discrete,  independent  domains  of  sleep  and  daytime  behaviour:  Getting  To  Sleep 
(Questions  1-3)  Quality  Of  Sleep  (Questions  4,5)  Awakening  From  Sleep  (Questions  7,8)  and 
Behaviour Following Wakening (Questions 8-10). (Parrott and Hindmarch, 1980). 
Thus, the mean of questions four and five was used as an independent measure of Quality of Sleep and 
equally questions 8-10 of Behaviour Following Wakening as a measure of functioning the following 
day. 
Neurim IV – A double-blind, parallel groups, randomised, placebo-controlled, dose ranging study of 
the  effects  of  Circadin  in  insomniacs  over  55  years  of  age,  in  responders  and  non-responders  to  the 
single-blind administration of 2 mg Circadin. 
The aims of this trial were: to identify responders and non responders to Circadin 2mg using clinical 
criteria;  to  determine  the  smallest  effective  dose  in  the  responders  group;  to  test  whether  the  non-
responders could benefit from lengthening the treatment period or by increasing the dose to 5 mg. 
The population were patients > 55 years old with primary insomnia. The study comprised 4 periods: 
periods  1  and  3  were  single  blind  placebo  treatment  periods,  period  2  was  a  single  blind  Circadin  
period, and period 4 was a randomised DB, PC, PGD. Period  1 and 2 were used to allocate responders 
and  non-responders  based  on  the  improvement  of  20%  in  Quality  of  sleep  in  the  Leeds  sleep 
Questionnaire  record  at  Visit  1  (placebo)  versus  visit  2  (Circadin  2  mg)  The  second  placebo  period 
was used as a pre-randomisation baseline step. During period 4 responders randomly received either 
0,2,  0,5  or  2  mg/d  of  Circadin  or  placebo;  non-responders  randomly  received  either  2  or  5  mg/d  of 
Circadin or placebo. A diagram of the design is presented below:  
©EMEA 2007 
23/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The evaluation of efficacy was based upon the following assessments: 
Leeds questionnaire 
•  Average score of each of the 4 combined variables (Quality of Sleep-QOS, Getting to sleep-
GTS, Awakening from sleep-AFS, behaviour following wakefulness-BFW); 
•  Actimetric variables: sleep efficiency, sleep latency, total sleep time, time awake after sleep 
onset, number of awakenings; 
•  Sleep log ( for the 7 days before visits V1, V2, V3 and V4): % of nights with a score of “very 
good” or “good”; % of days with a score of “very good” or “good”; average number of hours 
of sleep; average number of awakenings; average sleep efficiency; average duration of wake 
after sleep onset; average latency. 
The primary variable for the evaluation of efficacy is the change between visits 3 and 4 of the quality 
of  sleep  (QOS)  The  other  secondary  variables  are  all  the  other  parameters  derived  from  the  Leeds 
questionnaire, actimetric and sleep log between visit 3 and 4 
Intention-to-treat  (ITT)  population  is  the  393  randomised  responders  and  non  responders.  Among 
these patients, 228 were responders and 165 were non responders. The primary efficacy analysis was 
conducted on a per protocol (PP) basis after a pre-specified protocol amendment. 
Results 
The detailed results are complex because they involved many parameters and several trial phases. The 
key points are the following: 
1.  The  single  blind  treatment  period  with  Circadin  2 mg  in-between  placebo  treatment 
periods was aimed to differentiate responders from non responders on the basis of an 
improvement of 20% in Quality of Life score- Leeds questionnaire. In the end of this 
Circadin  single blind period there was a statistical significant difference relative to the 
status at the beginning of that period (V1) in all clinical sleep parameters and in the 
two sleep log variables. According with the criteria 57% of the treatment completers 
were classified as responders and the 43% as non-responders. 
2.  After  this  single  blind  treatment  period  with  Circadin  both  responders  and  non-
responders  were  entered  in  a  placebo  period  in  order  to  bring  their  status  to  the 
baseline pre-treatment one. However, a return to the baseline values did not occur. At 
the end of the second placebo period when randomisation for the dose-finding period 
was  due,  the  population  was  significantly  better  then  at  entry  in  study.  Carry-over 
effect from the Circadin single-blind period was present. 
3.  The patients were anyhow randomised. Responders to the following doses: 0.2, 0.5, 2 
mg or placebo. Non-responders to 2, 5 mg or placebo. It should be remembered that 
the  primary  variable  established  in  the  protocol  was  Quality  of  sleep  in  the 
randomised  phase  of  the  trial.  The  table  below  summarises  the  actual  data  in  this 
variable. 
©EMEA 2007 
24/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Primary efficacy endpoint: Quality of Sleep (QOS) as quoted with the Leeds Questionnaire 
(tables 14.2.C.1) 
Dose 
V3 
Mean (sd) 
V4 
Mean (sd) 
V4 - V3 
Results of 
Mean (sd) 
95% CI  Ordered Tests 
(t-test) 
Quality of Sleep 
Placebo 
0.2 mg dose 
0.5 mg dose 
2 mg dose 
39.8 (21.0) 
43.3 (21.1) 
39.9 (13.7) 
38.4 (17.8) 
36.5 (20.5) 
38.0 (15.2) 
34.5 (17.8) 
33.0 (16.3) 
-3.3 (23.8) 
-5.3 (17.5) 
-5.4 (14.8) 
-5.5 (14.8) 
[-10.3;  3.7] 
[-11.0;  0.4] 
[ -9.7; -1.1] 
[ -9.8; -1.1] 
NA 
NA 
p = 0.599 
  Other variables derived from the Leeds questionnaire (tables 14.2.C.1): 
Dose 
V3 
Mean (sd) 
V4 
Mean (sd) 
V4 - V3 
Results of 
Mean (sd) 
95% CI  Ordered Tests 
(t-test) 
Getting to Sleep 
     Placebo 
     0.2 mg dose 
     0.5 mg dose 
     2 mg dose 
Awakening from Sleep 
     Placebo 
     0.2 mg dose 
     0.5 mg dose 
     2 mg dose 
42.1 (15.2) 
42.4 (14.4) 
43.3 (14.4) 
42.6 (15.6) 
36.8 (17.1) 
38.2 (14.4) 
38.5 (16.0) 
37.5 (15.8) 
 -6.6 (15.1)
-4.3 (15.3) 
-4.0 (11.6) 
-5.4 (12.3) 
[-11.1;-2.0] 
[ -9.2;  0.7] 
[ -7.4; -0.6] 
[ -9.0; -1.7] 
NA 
NA 
p = 0.684 
39.9 (17.2) 
40.9 (16.2) 
39.0 (14.3) 
42.0 (17.5) 
36.7 (19.2) 
35.8 (16.0) 
38.2 (17.5) 
36.4 (16.0) 
-3.9 (14.9) 
-5.1 (17.6) 
-0.8 (13.6) 
-5.2 (15.3) 
[  -8.4; 0.6] 
[-10.8; 0.6] 
[ -4.8;  3.1] 
[ -9.9; -0.6] 
NA 
NA 
p = 0.679 
Behavior Following Wakefulness 
     Placebo 
     0.2 mg dose 
     0.5 mg dose 
     2 mg dose 
38.3 (18.2) 
41.6 (16.9) 
39.0 (12.8) 
40.9 (17.0) 
34.5 (15.3) 
37.4 (13.8) 
37.6 (14.9) 
37.3 (16.6) 
-5.0 (14.1) 
-4.2 (17.1) 
-1.2 (10.5) 
-3.7 (14.5) 
[ -9.3; -0.7] 
[ -9.8;  1.3] 
[ -4.3;  1.9] 
[ -8.0;  0.6] 
NA 
NA 
p = 0.658 
4.  The  PP  and  ITT  analysis  show  that  in  the  dose  ranging  period  all  efficacy  parameters  for 
responders remain high and there is no difference between Circadin and placebo. In the ITT 
analysis of the non-responders a significant difference between Circadin 5 mg and placebo in 
variables  –  quality  of  sleep,  awakening  from  sleep  and  %  of  nights  scored    “very  good”  or 
“good” was found. 
Neurim  V  –  A  double  blind,  parallel  group,  randomised,  placebo  controlled,  dose  ranging  study  of 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Circadin  in  the  improvement  of  sleep  in  adult  insomniacs  with  a  6 month 
extension of open label Circadin 2mg administration for long-term assessment of safety and efficacy.  
This trial had the following structure: 
Baseline period: single-blind, one-week, placebo run-in period; 
Treatment  period:  double-blind,  six-week,  treatment  period:  patients  randomly  received  Circadin 
1 mg, 2 mg , 5 mg or placebo: 
Extension period: open-label 26-week treatment period further extended to 12 months by a protocol 
amendment – patients received Circadin 2 mg per day; 
©EMEA 2007 
25/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Withdrawal period: 2 weeks follow-up where patients received no study medication; 
Study  duration:  7  weeks  without  the  extension  and  up  to  61  weeks  including  the  extension  and  the 
withdrawal period. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  quality  of  sleep  (QOS)  derived  from  the  question  4  and  5  of  the 
Leeds  questionnaire.  The  secondary  variables  were  the  remaining  parameters  of  the  Leeds 
questionnaire and sleep diary. 
In this study the population entered were males or females with age ≥20 and≤80 years old suffering 
from primary insomnia according with the criteria of DSM-IV. 263 were randomised: 62 to 1 mg; 65 
to 2 mg; 67 to 5 mg and 69 to placebo. 
Results 
The primary variable showed no significant difference in the ITT and PP population for the Circadin 
at 5 mg at 4 and 7 weeks.  
The remaining analysis was done post-unblinding. Sub group analysis suggested efficacy in patients 
>55 years old. 
•  Main studies  
The clinical development included 3 main efficacy studies, NEURIM VII, NEURIM IX and NEURIM 
VIIIa.  
As already mentioned, study NEURIM VIII, a Circadin vs. placebo randomized, double blind study 
was planned before Neurim IX but never concluded given the poor rate of recruitment in all centers. 
(See discussion) 
The three studies had the same design i.e. randomized, double blind, placebo control, parallel group, 
multicenter.  
The  enrolled  patients  were  older  than  55  years  with  a  diagnosis  of  primary  insomnia  (DSM-IV). 
Patients were receiving evaluation to rule out the presence of depression (Raskin), anxiety (Covi) and 
Dementia (Mini Mental State).  
Patients suffering from severe neurological, psychiatric or neurosurgical diseases were excluded. Also 
patients on CNS medications or benzodiazepine users were excluded.  
Enrolled patients were treated for 2 weeks with placebo (single blind, run-in phase).  
At  the  end  of  this  period  responders  to  placebo  (LSEQ-QOS  ≤  40mm),  were  excluded  from  any 
efficacy analysis. In addition patients with positive urine drug test (BZD, non-BZD hypnotics), with 
poor compliance (<70% or >130%) or incorrect use of the assessment tools (diary & LSEQ) were also 
excluded.  
The  remaining  subjects  were  undergoing  randomization  and  double  blind  treatment  with  either 
Circadin or placebo for 3 weeks.  
At that time final evaluation of efficacy and safety was performed. 
Statistical  Methods:  In  all  clinical  studies,  data  handling  and  analysis  followed  standard  accepted 
practice;  parametric  (ANOVA,  Man-Whitney  test,  t-test)  and  non-parametric  (chi  square,  Fisher’s 
exact, Kruskal-Willis test etc.) tests were used as appropriate. 
METHODS 
NEURIM  VII.  Phase  III  Study:  A  double  -blind,  Parallel  Group,  Randomised,  Placebo  Controlled 
Study  of  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  Circadin  2  mg  in  the  Improvement  of  Sleep  in  >55  year  Old 
Insomniacs. 
©EMEA 2007 
26/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Participants  
To be eligible for the study, patients were required to satisfy the following criteria at visit 1: 
•  Male or female aged ≥55 years 
•  Suffering  from  primary  insomnia  (DSM-IV  criteria),  and  for  whom  this  is  the  consultation 
complaint. 
•  Confirmed diagnosis of primary insomnia (Sleep History Questionnaire given to the patient before 
visit 1) 
In addition, patients had to satisfy the following criteria at visit 2: 
•  Establish baseline pathology (Leeds SEQ) 
•  Good compliance during the 2-week placebo run-in period defined as 70% to 130% of 
prescribed tablets 
•  Correct use of Sleep Diary & Leeds SEQ 
•  Negative drug screen (BZD & non-BZD Hypnotics) 
Treatments 
Circadin  tablets  2  mg  once  daily,  after  food  and  preferably  1-2  hours  before  going  to  bed 
(21.00 - 22.00) 
The  study  comprised  3  periods:  period  1  was  a  two  week  run  in  with  placebo,  period  2  was  a 
randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group treatment period of 3 weeks and period 3 
was a two week withdrawal period with placebo. 
Objectives 
The objective was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Circadin 2mg tablets on the quality of sleep 
(QOS)  and  behaviour  during  the  day,  in  adult  insomniac  out  -patients,  aged  55  years  or  more, 
including the elderly. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint in this study was QOS, derived as the mean of Questions 4 and 5 of the 
LSEQ.  
The secondary endpoints were the remaining derived parameters from the LSEQ and the sleep diary 
parameters (QON and QOD). 
Randomisation 
All  patients  received  placebo  for  a  single-blind,  two-week,  run-in  period.  Patients  who  fulfilled  the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria were then randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive either Circadin® 2 mg or 
placebo  for  a  period  of  three  weeks.  Following  the  double-blind  active  treatment  period,  patients 
received placebo during a two-week, single-blind, run-out period. One tablet of medication was self-
administered on a daily basis, one to two hours before going to bed. 
NEURIM  IX.  A  double-blind,  parallel  group,  randomised,  placebo  controlled  study  of  efficacy  and 
safety of Circadin 2 mg in the improvement of sleep quality in insomnia patients aged 55-80 years. 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria: same as study NEURIM VII. 
Exclusion criteria:  
-Severe neurological, psychiatric disorder (especially psychosis, depression or anxiety) & alcohol 
-Excessive consumption of coffee or tea 
-Positive HIV or chronic active viral hepatitis 
-History or current drug & alcohol abuse 
-History of severe cardiac disorder 
Treatments  
Circadin  tablets  2  mg  once  daily,  after  food  and  preferably  1-2  hours  before  going  to  bed 
(21.00 - 22.00) 
©EMEA 2007 
27/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  comprised  2  periods:  period  1  was  a  two  week  run  in  with  placebo,  period  2  was  a 
randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group treatment periods of 3 weeks 
Objectives 
Evaluate efficacy and safety of Circadin 2 mg in the improvement of sleep quality in insomnia patients 
aged 55-80 years. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint:  To  compare,  at  the  end  of  the  3-week  treatment  period,  the  rate  of 
responders  in  the  Circadin  vs  placebo  groups.  The  responders  are  defined  as  an  improvement  of 
10 mm or more on both the Leeds QOS and behaviour following wakefulness (BFW) parameters. A 
change  of  10  mm  or  more  on  each  of  these  visual  analogue  scales  is  considered  to  be  of  clinical 
importance and relevance. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: Quality of sleep (LSEQ-QOS and Pittsburg sleep quality index (PSQI)-
COMP1),  Sleep  latency  (LSEQ-GTS  and  PSQI-Q2),  Daytime  functioning  (LSEQ-BFW  and  score 
from WHO-5 well being index) and score on clinical global impression scale (CGIS). 
Sample size 
800  patients  were  planned  to  be  screened  to  enable  an  estimated  520  randomised  patients  and  332 
patients (166 patients in each treatment arm) to be included in the Full Analysis Set to receive active 
drug or placebo for three weeks. 
Randomisation 
Eligible  subjects  underwent  a  two-week  single-blind  placebo  run-in  period  prior  to  Visit 2. 
Participants  who  fulfilled  eligibility  criteria  were  then  randomised  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  receive  either 
Circadin  2  mg  or  placebo  in  a  double-blind  manner.  Following  a  three-week  intervention  period, 
subjects underwent a final assessment at Visit 3.  
NEURIM VIIIa. A double-blind, parallel group, placebo controlled, randomised study comparing the 
effects of zolpidem 10 mg and placebo in the improvement of sleep quality in insomnia patients aged 
55 years and over 
Study Participants  
To be eligible for the study, patients were required to satisfy the following criteria at visit 1: 
•  Patients aged ≥ 55 
•  Suffering from primary insomnia (DSMIV – 307.42), characterized by poor quality of 
sleep 
In addition, patients had to satisfy the following criteria at visit 2: 
•  Lack of significant placebo response during the run-in period (≥ 40mm in LSEQ-QOS 
mean value) 
•  Negative drug screen (BZD & non-BZD Hypnotics) 
Exclusion criteria: same as NEURIM IX 
Treatments 
Zolpidem 10 mg tablet taken orally once daily before going to bed.  
The  study  comprised  2  periods:  period  1  was  a  two  week  run  in  with  placebo,  period  2  was  a 
randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group treatment periods of 3 weeks. 
Objectives 
To  demonstrate  the  sensitivity  &  validity  of  the  assessment  tools  in  the  Circadin  pivotal  studies 
ie LSEQ & diary, by using them to measure sleep & daytime consequences of a well known insomnia 
drug (zolpidem 10 mgr) 
Outcomes/endpoints 
©EMEA 2007 
28/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary  efficacy  objective:  to  evaluate,  compared  to  placebo,  the  effects  of  Zolpidem  10  mg  on 
Quality of night (QON) derived from the diary. 
Secondary efficacy objectives:  
%  responders  (LSEQ  –  QOS  &  BFW),  change  from  baseline  of  LSEQ  –  QOS,  BFW,  GTS,  AES, 
QOD (diary), PSQI & and quality of life score from SF-12v2TM 
Sample size 
It  was  planned  to  enrol  200  patients  into  the  run-in  in  order  to  obtain  110  patients,  55  patients  per 
treatment arm, treated with active drug or placebo for 3 weeks. 
Randomisation 
After screening, all enrolled patients entered a single-blind, two-week run-in period during which they 
took  one  placebo  tablet  each  evening.  All  patients  who  then  fulfilled  the  pre-treatment  eligibility 
criteria were randomised to either Zolpidem 10 mg or placebo in a 1:1 ratio and entered the double-
blind treatment period. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow / Numbers analysed 
Neurim VII: 
188 were randomised, 94 for each treatment group. Following an initial analysis of this total patient 
population, it was found that sixteen patients failed to satisfy major entry criteria and were randomised 
by error and therefore excluded. Two patients were excluded from the ITT population, one because he 
took no medication and the other due to lack of double-blind efficacy data. The ITT population was 
thus  comprised  of  170  patients.  Of  these,  82  patients  were  randomised  to  Circadin  2  mg  and  88  to 
placebo.  Of  these,  78  of  the  patients  randomised  to  Circadin  and  86  of  the  patients  randomised  to 
placebo, completed the study.  
Neurim IX: 
1208 subjects completed sleep questionnaire, 523 patients entered the study, 453 were randomised and 
334 patients were included in the Full Analysis Set, 169 in the Circadin group and 165 in the placebo 
group. Of the 453 randomised patients, 99 were placebo responders during run-in and were included in 
the  Placebo  Responder  population,  48  in  the  Circadin  group  and  51  in  the  placebo  group.  In  the 
Combined Full Analysis & Placebo Responder Set Low 6-SMT Sub-population (< 8) there were 196 
patients; of these 145 were in the Full Analysis Set Low 6-SMT Set sub-population. 
Text Table 3:  Summary of Populations 
Circadin 
N 
% 
Placebo 
Total 
N 
% 
N 
% 
Safety 
Full Analysis Set 
Low 6-SMT (<=8) 
High 6-SMT (> 8) 
Per Protocol 
Per Protocol Low 6-SMT (<=8) 
225
(100%) 
228
(100%) 
453 
(100%) 
169
(75%) 
165
(72%) 
334 
(74%) 
73
(32%) 
72
(32%) 
145 
(32%) 
96
(43%) 
93
(41%) 
189 
(42%) 
166
(74%) 
161
(71%) 
327 
(72%) 
©EMEA 2007 
29/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Circadin 
N 
% 
(32%) 
71
Placebo 
N 
% 
(30%) 
69
Total 
N 
140 
% 
(31%) 
Combined Full Analysis & Placebo Responder 
217
(96%) 
216
(95%) 
433 
(96%) 
Combined Full Analysis & Placebo Responder - Low 6-SMT (<=8) 
95
(42%) 
101
(44%) 
196 
(43%) 
Placebo Responder 
48
(21%) 
51
(22%) 
99 
(22%) 
Neurim VIIIa 
289 patients were screened and 179 entered the single-blind run-in period and were treated with run-in 
medication. Of these 144 were in the safety analysis set and 114 patients completed the double-blind 
treatment period and are included in the Full Analysis Set. 
Overall, in the two Circadin studies (Neurim-VIII & Neurim- IX) 1186 patients were enrolled in the 
run-in phase. From those 965 were randomized and 767 completed the studies. From those, only 334 
(Neurim-IX) were included in the efficacy analysis set, of whom 169 had been treated with Circadin 
and  165  with  placebo.  In  the  active  comparator  study  (zolpidem  10 mg)  the  respective  numbers  are 
179 enrolled and 114 completed (57 on zolpidem and 57 on placebo). 
Comparable  for  the  three  studies  is  the  attrition  rate  in  the  enrollment  process  from  enrolled  to 
randomized to completed patients as well as the ratio of patients per center and these numbers are very 
close to the Neurim-VII numbers, as can be seen in the following table (Table 1).  
Study 
Enrolled 
% Randomized 
% Completed 
NEURIM-VII 
NEURIM-VIIIa 
NEURIM-VIII 
NEURIM-IX 
222 
179 
663 
523 
84% 
83% 
77% 
87% 
73% 
64% 
65% 
64% 
Completed / 
# centers 
3.5 
2.65 
3.5 
UK only 
Recruitment 
The  list  of  patients  excluded  from  enrolment  because  of  failure  in  the  screening  procedure  and  the 
reasons for that failure is shown in the tables below. 
Neurim VII 
Reason 
Secondary insomnia due to mental disorder (Anxiety/Depression) 
Secondary insomnia due to general medical condition (illness) 
Absence of primary insomnia characterized by poor sleep quality  
Circadian Rhythm Sleep Disorder Jet Lag Type 
Age < 55 
Total 
Number of subjects 
9  
1  
48 
1 
1 
60 
Neurim IX 
Reason 
Secondary insomnia due to mental disorder (Anxiety/Depression) 
In other study 
Forbidden medications 
Patient not wishing to take part 
Number of subjects 
37 
6 
121 
171 
©EMEA 2007 
30/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absence of primary insomnia characterized by poor sleep quality  
Secondary insomnia due to general medical condition (pain, restless leg 
syndrome) 
Work variable hours 
Drink alcohol above the limit 
Positive questionnaire but patients did not enter the study 
Serious health problems 
Telephone screen not completed but no obvious reason why responses 
have stopped. Patient did not Enter. 
Those which have IDs but are completely blank 
Weight – out of allowed BMI range 
Total 
Outcomes and estimation 
•  Neurim VII: 
1 
3 
1 
2 
192 
72 
60 
14 
12 
692 
Primary parameter 
In  this  study  there  was  a  22.48  mm  change  from  baseline  in  the  Circadin  arm  vs.  16.51 mm  in  the 
placebo arm for the LSEQ-QOS score. The difference between the two arms in the same variable was 
5.97 mm  (P=0.047).  The  difference  for  LSEQ-BFW  score  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  was  8.87 mm 
favoring Circadin (P=0.002). These results are summarised in the following 2 tables: 
Quality of sleep (QOS) – in the Leeds SEQ - ITT population – Neurim VII 
Placebo 
88 
65.1 (11.9) 
-16.5 (17.8) 
Table 12: 
Number of patients 
Baseline Mean (sd) in mm 
Week 4 change: Mean (sd) 
  Treatment difference (sed) 
  95% Confidence Interval 
  p-value treatment 
Circadin 2 mg 
82 
65.3 (12.1) 
-22.5 (20.7) 
-6.0  (3.0) 
(-11.9, -0.1) 
0.047 
Table 13: 
Behaviour following waking (BFW) - in the Leeds SEQ ITT population - Neurim 
Number of patients 
Baseline Mean (sd) mm 
Week 4 change: Mean (sd) 
  Treatment difference (sed) 
  95% Confidence Interval 
  p value treatment 
VII 
Placebo 
88 
56.9 (15.4) 
-6.8 (16.1) 
Circadin  2 mg 
82 
59.9 (13.8) 
-15.7 (20.2) 
-8.9  (2.8) 
(-14.5, -3.3) 
0.002 
Secondary parameters 
Significant difference has been reported for the diary variable QON, the mean change of 0.42 favoring 
the active treatment arm (P=0.003). 
No significant results have been reported for LSEQ-GTS & AFS as well as Diary-QOD and the SF-36. 
•  Neurim IX 
Primary endpoint 
The  results  show  higher  response  rate  (improvement  in  LSEQ-QOS  &  BFW≥10mm)  in  the  arm  of 
Circadin (26% vs. 15%, p=0.014). See table below: 
©EMEA 2007 
31/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Improvement of > 10 mm on the QOS and BFW scales of the LSEQ – full analyses 
population 
Circadin 
Placebo 
        N    
   % 
        N 
  % 
Improvement of > 10mm on the Leeds QOS and BFW scales 
Yes 
No 
        44   
 (26%) 
        25                (15%) 
       124   
 (74%) 
       139     
 (85%)   
Missing   
           1  
           1 
Odds-ratio for Circadin vs. Placebo = 1.97 (1.14,   3.41) 
Chi-square statistic = 6.04, P = 0.014 
The impact of baseline severity on responder rate is shown in the following table: 
Table:  Impact of baseline severity on Responder Rate to Circadin vs. Placebo 
Neurim IX study 
% Responders 
Severity Index (N) 
Circadin 
Placebo 
Difference 
Odds ratio 
Total population  
26% 
15% 
11% 
1.97 
PSQI> 5 (N= 334)  
Severe Insomnia 
27.4% 
15.5% 
11.8% 
2.05 
 PSQI> 11 (N=161) 
Very Severe insomnia PSQI> 13  
(N=48) 
28.5% 
10% 
18.5% 
3.59 
These results show that the difference in response rate between Circadin and placebo is increased by 
11.8% in patients with severe insomnia (odds ratio of 2.05) and by 18.5% in the very severe insomnia 
population (odds ratio of 3.6), suggesting that the therapeutic benefit of Circadin is higher in the very 
severely ill. 
Secondary endpoints 
There is an average of 4mm difference between Circadin and placebo improvement (baseline vs. EOT) 
in  LSEQ-QOS.  (p=0.014).  Another  statistically  significant  result  is  the  effect  on  functioning  when 
awake  (LSEQ-BFW),  but  again  the  mean  difference  of  improvements  with  CIRCADIN  or  placebo 
was 3mm (p=0.038). 
©EMEA 2007 
32/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Other  statistically  significant  results  are  the  LSEQ-GTS  (difference  of  3.3mm,  p=0.013),  the  PSQI-
Component1  evaluating  quality  of  sleep  (difference  0.2,  p=0.036),  PSQI-  Component2  evaluating 
sleep  latency  (difference  8.8  min,  p=0.028)  and  WHO-5  well  being  questionnaire  (difference  0.8, 
p=0.034). The results are summarised below: 
Table of statistically significant secondary endpoints – full analysis population 
Domain 
Endpoint 
Sleep Quality 
Sleep Latency 
Daytime 
Functioning 
Other 
Leeds QOS 
PSQ1 Component 1 
Leeds GTS 
PSQ1 
Question 2 
Leeds BFW 
WHO 5 Well-Being 
Index 
Sleep Diary night 
sleeping score 
PSQ1 global score 
Mean Difference 
(95% CI) 
-4.0 (-7.2, -0.8) 
-0.2 (-0.3, -0.0) 
-3.3 (-5.8, -0.7) 
-8.8 (-16.07, -1.0) 
-3.0 (-5.9, -0.2) 
0.8 (0.1, 1.5) 
0.2 (-0.0, 0.3) 
-0.6 (-1.3, 0.1) 
p-value 
0.014 
0.036 
0.013 
0.028 
0.038 
0.034 
0.054 
0.081 
•  Neurim VIIIa 
Primary efficacy parameter 
The main results are summarised below. 
Sleep Diary 
Table: Quality of Night: End of Treatment and Change from Baseline 
Full Analysis Set 
Zolpidem 
(n=57) 
Placebo 
(n=57) 
Total  
(n=114) 
Per Protocol Population 
Zolpidem 
(n=55) 
Placebo 
(n=50) 
Total  
(n=105) 
2.4±0.7 
2.8±0.9 
1-4 
57 
57 
57 
57 
1.7-5 
1-4.3 
2.6±0.7 
3.6±0.8 
Baseline a 
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
EOT b  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Change from 
baseline  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Treatment diff.  
95% CI 
p-value (t-test) 
Data Source: Tables C.4.1.1, C.4.1.2, D.4.1.1, D.4.1.2  
a baseline was the end of the run-in period (Week 2) 
b End of Treatment was the end of the period (Week 5) 
0.5 
0.17-0.83 
0.003 
-1-2.7 
1±0.8 
57 
57 
1-5 
0.5±1 
-1.7-3 
114 
2.5±0.7 
1-4.3 
114 
3.2±0.9 
1-5 
114 
0.7±0.9 
-1.7-3 
55 
50 
2.6±0.7 
2.4±0.7 
1-3 
55 
3.6±0.8 
1.7-5 
55 
0.9±0.8 
-1-2.7 
1-3 
50 
2.9±0.9 
1-5 
50 
0.5±1 
-1.7-3 
105 
2.5±0.7 
1-3 
105 
3.2±0.9 
1-5 
105 
0.7±0.9 
-1.7-3 
0.43 
0.08-0.78 
0.016 
©EMEA 2007 
33/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary objectives 
LSEQ: 
Table: Quality of Sleep: End of Treatment and Change from Baseline (FA, PP) 
Full Analysis Set 
Zolpidem 
(n=57) 
Placebo 
(n=57) 
57 
62.1±13.8 
40.5-95.7 
57 
62.6± 12.6 
40.7-97.2 
56 
36.7±17.6 
6.5-86.8 
54 
49.6±19.3 
5.2-95.2 
Baseline a 
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
EOT b  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Change from 
baseline  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Treatment diff.  
95% CI 
p-value (t-test) 
Data Source: Tables C.4.2.2.1, C.4.2.2.2, D.4.2.2.1, D.4.2.2.2 
a baseline was the end of the run-in period (Week 2) 
b End of Treatment was the end of the period (Week 5) 
-13.01 
-21.03- -4.99 
0.0017 
54 
-12.9±20.9 
-84.3-26.5 
56 
-25.9±21.5 
-76.8-39.7 
Total  
(n=114) 
114 
62.4±13.1 
40.5-97.2 
110 
43.1±19.5 
5.2-95.2 
Per Protocol Population 
Zolpidem 
(n=55) 
Placebo 
(n=50) 
Total  
(n=105) 
55 
62.3±12.7 
40.7-97.2 
54 
36.5±17.5 
6.5-86.8 
50 
62.9±13.9 
40.5-95.7 
48 
49.8±20.4 
5.2-95.2 
105 
62.6±13.2 
40.5-97.2 
102 
42.7±20 
5.2-95.2 
110 
-19.5±22.1 
-84.3-39.7 
54 
-25.9±21.7 
-76.8-39.7 
48 
-13.3±22 
-84.3-26.5 
102 
-20±22.6 
-84.3-39.7 
-12.63 
-21.23- -4.038 
0.0044 
In both the FAS and PP populations, there was a statistically significant difference in Quality of Sleep 
between the treatment groups in favour of Zolpidem (p=0.002; p=0.004).  
Table: Getting to Sleep: End of Treatment and Change from Baseline (FA, PP) 
Full Analysis Set 
Zolpidem 
(n=57) 
Placebo 
(n=57) 
Total  
(n=114) 
Per Protocol Population 
Zolpidem 
(n=55) 
Placebo 
(n=50) 
Total  
(n=105) 
57 
57 
56 
54 
114 
110 
22-96.3 
60.7±13 
6.7-96.4 
20.8-88.8 
20.8-96.3 
44.8±19.4 
61.4±13.1 
62.1±13.4 
50.3±16.4 
39.5±20.7 
Baseline a 
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
EOT b  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Change from 
baseline  
n 
Mean (± SD)  
Range 
Treatment diff.  
95% CI 
p-value (t-test) 
Data Source: Tables C.4.2.4.1, C.4.2.4.2, D.4.2.4.1, D.4.2.4.2  
a baseline was the end of the run-in period (Week 2) 
b End of Treatment was the end of the period (Week 5) 
-9.14 
-16.41- -1.88 
0.014 
-21.1±20.4 
-11.9±17.9 
-16.6±19.7 
-61.7-22.6 
-61.7-22.6 
-58.9-21.8 
6.7-96.4 
13-90.4 
110 
56 
54 
55 
60.4±13.1 
20.8-88.8 
50 
62.2±14 
22-96.3 
105 
61.2±13.5 
20.8-96.3 
54 
39.3±21 
6.7-96.4 
48 
102 
50.1±17.2 
44.4±19.9 
13-90.4 
6.7-96.4 
54 
48 
102 
-21±20.6 
-12.4±18.8 
-17±20.1 
-61.7-22.6 
-58.9-21.8 
-61.7-22.6 
-8.58 
-16.37- -0.8 
0.031 
©EMEA 2007 
34/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Responder Rates (QOS+BFW*) (FA, PP) 
Full Analysis Set 
Zolpidem 
(n=57) 
31 
Placebo 
(n=57) 
14 
Total  
(n=114) 
45 
Per Protocol Population 
Zolpidem 
(n=55) 
30 
Placebo 
(n=50) 
13 
of 
of 
55.4% 
Number 
responders 
% 
responders 
χ2 (1)  
9.85 
0.002 
p-value 
Data Source:Tables C.4.2.1.1, C.4.2.1.2, D.4.2.1.1, D.4.2.1.2  
* Responders are patients who had 10 mm improvement from baseline in the VAS score in QOS derived as the mean of 
questions 4 and 5 and BFW derived as the mean of questions 8, 9 and 10 of the Leeds SEQ 
8.45 
0.005 
40.9% 
25.9% 
55.6% 
27.1% 
Total  
(n=105) 
43 
42.2% 
In summary, Zolpidem (10 mg dose) has demonstrated 
•  A  significant  effect  on  the  primary  efficacy  parameter  Quality  Of  Night  in  patients  with 
primary  insomnia  aged  >55  years  (P=0.003).  Zolpidem  has  been  reported  to  improve  the 
quality  of  sleep  in  a  7-21  days  treatment  periods  with  minimal  adverse  effects  on  daytime 
functioning. Our results obtained with the diary as the main tool confirm the known positive 
effect of Zolpidem on sleep quality. 
•  A  significant  effect  of  Zolpidem  as  assessed  by  the  LSEQ  QOS  variable  is  demonstrated 
(p=0.002),  in  agreement  with  the  medical  knowledge  on  improvement  in  sleep  quality  with 
this drug. 
•  A  significant  improvement  of  the  LSEQ  variable  Getting  to  sleep  (GTS)  as  compared  to 
placebo  (p=0.014)  is  also  demonstrated,  in  agreement  with  the  medical  knowledge  on 
improvement in sleep latency with this drug. 
•  A  significantly  higher  responder  rate  compared  to  placebo  (p=0.002)  is  also  demonstrated 
with Zolpidem. 
•  A significant correlation (p<0.0001) between the QOS parameter of the LSEQ and component 
1 of the PSQI and between the BFW parameter of the LSEQ and component 7 of the PSQI 
was found. 
However,  Zolpidem  did  not  demonstrate  a  significant  effect  over  placebo  in  the  daytime  variables 
BFW,  AFS  of  the  LSEQ  and  QOD  of  the  Diary,  which  is  also  in  agreement  with  the  medical 
knowledge on the lack of daytime effects with this drug. 
Regarding safety, of the 144 patients in the safety population, 24 patients (17%) reported AEs during 
the  double-blind  phase,  14  (18.4%)  patients  in  the  Zolpidem  group  and  10  (14.7%)  in  the  placebo 
group.  The  most  commonly  reported  AEs  were  diarrhoea,  vomiting  and  hyperlipidemia  each 
experienced by two patients in the Zolpidem group. 
The safety results demonstrate that Zolpidem 10 mg is quite safe and are consistent to general medical 
knowledge. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Baseline data 
In order to determine if the run-in period that selected out 16% of the potential patients  might have 
produced a selection bias in the population studied, the applicant performed a pooled analysis in which 
entry  criteria  failures  (“placebo  responders)  were  included.  The  data  are  shown  in  the  table  below 
demonstrate  that  the  selection  method  did  not  compromise  the  applicability  of  the  results  in  the 
Circadin clinical trials. 
©EMEA 2007 
35/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Pooled analysis of responder rate in Neurim pivotal studies including the 93 patients who 
are entry criteria failures and had data available 
Pooled  analysis  Neurim  I,  VII,  IX  with  data  on  patients 
who failed to confirm entry criteria 
% Responders  
Placebo 
(N=322) 
18% 
Circadin 2 mg 
(N=308) 
29% 
Difference between the two arms 
Odds Ratio for Circadin over placebo 
95% Confidence Interval 
p value treatment 
11% 
1.86 
4.3%, 17.5% 
p=0.001 
Primary endpoint  
The size of the primary endpoint expressed as the rate of responders, which includes two criteria – the 
quality of sleep and the impact on morning alertness in show below in a pooled analysis 
Table: 
Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint:  Responder  Rate  Analysis  of  Circadin  vs.  Placebo  in 
Quality of Sleep (QOS) and Behavior Following Wakefulness (BFW). 
Study 
Neurim VII 
Neurim IX 
Pooled analysis (Neurim 
I, VII, IX) 
Treatment 
placebo 
Circadin 
placebo 
Circadin 
placebo 
Circadin 
N 
88 
77 
164 
168 
272 
265 
Number (%) 
24 (27%) 
36 (47%) 
25 (15%) 
44 (26%) 
51 (18.7%) 
86 (32.4%) 
Responders 
Difference 
20% 
from Placebo  
P value 
0.0095 
Secondary endpoints 
11% 
0.014 
14% 
0.0003 
A pooled analysis on the quality of sleep and morning alertness is shown below. 
Table:  % responders to Circadin vs Placebo showing concomitant and clinically meaningful 
improvement in quality of sleep and morning alertness, and in each of them separately.   Pooled 
Analysis (Neurim I, VII, IX) 
Treatment 
N 
Responders % 
Difference 
Odds ratio 
P value 
QOS&BFW responders 
placebo 
Circadin 
272 
265 
18.7% 
32.4% 
14% 
2.08 
0.0003 
placebo 
272 
34.5% 
QOS responders 
Circadin 
265 
48% 
13.5% 
1.75 
0.0017 
placebo 
272 
30% 
BFW responders 
Circadin 
265 
40.3% 
10.3% 
1.57 
0.012 
©EMEA 2007 
36/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The comparison of the mean change in subjective sleep latency (in min) between Circadin, zolpidem 
and placebo is summarised in the following table: 
Table:  Mean change in Subjective Sleep Latency (in min) with Circadin zolpidem and placebo 
in Circadin target patient population 
Circadin 2 mg 
(Neurim IX) 
Circadin 2 mg 
(Neurim IX) 
Zolpidem 10 mg 
(Neurim VIIIa) 
Age and subgroup 
N (active treatment) 
N (placebo treatment) 
Mean Baseline Sleep Latency, 
minutes  
Mean change Placebo 
Mean change comparator 
Difference from placebo, 
minutes 
P  
*Analysis of covariance adjusted to baseline 
> 55 
169 
165 
65.1 
-12.9 
-24.3 
- 8.8*  
0.028 
> 55 Low 6-SMT 
73 
72 
56.5 
-9.7 
-26.4 
-18.5* 
< 0.001 
> 55 
63 
58 
58.3 
-8.6 
-25.9 
-17.3 
0.028 
As seen in the above table, the subjective shortening of sleep latency with Circadin 2 mg vs. placebo 
in  the  total  population  is  somewhat  lower  than  that  of  zolpidem  10  mg  and  is  similar  to  that  of 
zolpidem  10  mg  in  the  subpopulation  of  patients  with  low  endogenous  melatonin  (low  6-SMT; 
excreting <8 microgram 6-SMT excreted per night). 
Circadin and zolpidem treatment had positive effects on quality of sleep (QOS) and quality of night 
(QON), as shown in the table below.  
Table:  Effects of Circadin 2 mg and Zolpidem 10 mg vs. Placebo  on Quality of  Sleep (LSEQ 
QOS) and Sleep Quality Ratings (QON; 5 categorical units) 
Parameter 
QOS (mm) 
QON (5 units) 
Neurim VII change from BL 
Circadin -22.5+20.7 
Placebo  -16.5+17.8 ; P=0.047 
Circadin   0.9+0.8 
Placebo   0.46+0.97;  P=0.003 
Neurim VIIIa change from BL 
Zolpidem -25.9+21.5 
Placebo   -12.9+20.9;  P=0.0017 
Zolpidem 1.0+0.8 
Placebo    0.5+1;         P=0.003 
Subpopulation analyses 
The sleep latency and quality in the Full Analysis Set (N=334) and in the low 6-SMT sub-population 
of the Full Analysis Set (N=145) is compared in the table below: 
Table:  Sleep latency and quality with Circadin vs. placebo in the Full Analysis Set 
(N=334) and low 6-SMT sub-population of the Full Analysis Set (N=145) 
Endpoint 
Full Analysis set 
Sleep Latency Minutes  
Sleep Quality Score  
(PSQI component 1)   
Placebo 
N=165 
-12.9 (39.7) 
-0.4 (0.8) 
Circadin 
N=169 
-24.3 (47.6) 
-0.6 (0.9) 
Mean Difference*  
(95% CI) 
-8.8 (-16.7, -1.0) 
-0.2 (-0.3, -0.0) 
p-value 
0.028 
0.036 
©EMEA 2007 
37/52 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sleep Quality (LSEQ QOS) 
-4.2 (14.7) 
-8.6 (16.3) 
-4.0 (-7.2, -0.8) 
Placebo 
N=72 
-9.7 (33.2) 
-0.2 (0.9) 
Circadin 
N=73 
-26.4 (43.9) 
-0.6 (1.0) 
Mean Difference  
(95% CI) 
-18.5 (-29.0, -7.9) 
-0.3 (-0.6, -0.0) 
0.014 
p-value 
<0.001 
0.027 
Endpoint 
Low 6-SMT set 
Sleep Latency Minutes  
Sleep Latency Score  
(PSQI component 2)   
Sleep Quality (LSEQ QOS) 
-3.7 (16.1) 
-9.4 (17.5) 
-5.9 (-11.1, -0.7) 
0.025 
*Analysis of covariance adjusted to baseline 
The  similarity  in  efficacy  of  Circadin  on  the  quality  of  sleep  in  the  full  analysis  population  and  its 
subpopulation of patients with low 6-SMT confirms that age is a good surrogate marker of melatonin 
deficiency  in  the  primary  insomnia  patient  population.  Thus,  further  measurements  of  endogenous 
6-SMT  levels  in  the  primary  insomnia  population;  over  55  years  of  age,  would  not  be  necessary  in 
clinical practice. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Elderly 
Despite the inexistence of a specific trial in the elderly, the efficacy has been documented in a pooled 
analysis from the ITT population. The data are presented below: 
Table:  % response to Circadin vs. placebo by age (pooled analysis ITT)  
Treatment 
N 
Responders % 
Difference 
Odds ratio 
P value 
Age > 55  
(mean age 66) 
Circadin 
265 
32.4% 
14% 
2.08 
0.0003 
placebo 
272 
18.7% 
Age 55-65  
(mean age 60) 
Circadin 
120 
33.3% 
15% 
2.2 
0.006 
placebo 
136 
18.3% 
Age > 65  
(mean age 72) 
Circadin 
145 
31.7% 
12.6% 
1.96 
0.015 
placebo 
136 
19.1% 
The effect size did not seem to change across age ranges. Furthermore the overall population is 
already selected for those above 55 years of age.  
Patients under hypnotic medicines (benzodiazepines) 
A subgroup analysis taking in account the status as BZD users and non-users was performed. Data was 
collected in the 2 pivotal out-patient studies Neurim VII and IX and an analysis was performed for the 
primary  parameter,  rate  of  responders  that  includes  two  dimensions  –  the  quality  of  sleep  and  the 
impact on morning alertness. These data are summarised in the table below: 
Table : 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint: Responder Rate Analysis of Circadin vs. 
Placebo in Quality of Sleep (QOS) and Behavior Following Wakefulness (BFW) in prior 
hypnotic users and non uswers (ITT  population Neurim VII and IX). 
Study 
Treatment 
Responders 
Non responders 
Chi square  
P value 
Prior hypnotic use 
Circadin 
23 
31 
placebo 
11 
53 
9.22 
0.002 
No prior hypnotic use 
Circadin 
57 
134 
placebo 
38 
150 
4.68 
0.03 
©EMEA 2007 
38/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Supportive studies 
-  End stage renal disease on chronic hemodialysis: 
Design – Open label, 3 weeks duration. Participants 8 patients (7M, 1F, 23-61 year old) 
Results – No accumulation of melatonin in the blood has been observed, between week 1 & 3. Patients 
improved arithmetically according to PSQI Global.  
Main  effect  is  improvement  in  Component-7  (daytime  functioning).  Concerning  safety,  no  serious 
AEs reported, one patient experienced insomnia and dropped out (due to study medication according 
to the PI). No significant laboratory tests findings. 
-  Patients with Nocturnal Hypertension: 
Design  –  Randomized,  double  blind,  placebo  controlled,  8  weeks  duration  (2  run-in  single  blind 
placebo, 4 treatment & 2 run-out open). 38 patients randomized (42% female & age 42-83). 
Results – 58% patients on CIRCADIN responded (≥5mm Hg decrease in mean night systolic BP) vs. 
21%  on  placebo.  Reduction  in  nocturnal  BP  CIRCADIN  >  placebo  (p=0.01).  Improvement  but  not 
statistically significant in quality of sleep and morning alertness was observed in the CIRCADIN arm. 
-  Patients suffering from type II diabetes & complaining of insomnia: 
Design  –  Randomized,  double  blind,  placebo  control,  6  months  treatment  period.  42  patients 
randomized (55% female & age 50-76). 
Results  –  Sleep  Efficiency  &  Wake  After  Sleep  onset  improved  vs.  baseline  (p<0.02).  Decrease  in 
HbA1C  level  vs.  baseline,  but  not  statistically  significant.  When  data  were  combined  with  study 
951005 (same protocol) then this parameter reached statistical significance. 
-  Elderly patients suffering from insomnia and treated with benzodiazepines. 
A  randomised  double-blind  crossover  study  comparing  the  efficacy  of  melatonin  controlled  release 
(2 mg once daily) versus placebo in a 3 week treatment 21 pt were enrolled: age from 55 to 95 years 
old; diagnosis insomnia and at least intake of a tablet of Benzodiazepines/day. Efficacy evaluated by 
sleep  quality  monitored  through  wrist  actigraphy.  Melatonin  produced  the  following  effects:  13.6% 
improvement in sleep efficiency; 59.8% reduction in sleep latency, 48.5% reduction in wake time after 
sleep onset, 9.4% increase in total sleep time, 29.4% reduction in number of awakenings. 
- 
Insomnia patients discontinuing chronic used of benzodiazepines. 
A  randomised  double-blind  parallel  group  study  of  controlled-release  melatonin  (2 mg)  versus 
placebo. 6-week treatment. 34 pt were enrolled; age from 40 to 90 years old; diagnosis insomnia, at 
least  intake  of  a  tablet  benzodiazepines/d  and  willingness  to  withdrawn  benzodiazepines.  Efficacy 
criteria: tapering and discontinuation of BZ assessed by patients diaries and sleep quality assessed by a 
daily questionnaire.  
In the DB period 14/18 pt stopped taking BZ under Circadin against 4/16 in the placebo group. At six 
week  the  mean  consume  of  BZ  tablets  was  0.15  for  the  Melatonin  group  and  0.48  for  the  placebo 
group.  
Quality of sleep scores were higher in patients in melatonin than on placebo: 7.38 vs. 6.06. After the 
single blind period (all pt received melatonin) the rate of discontinuation of BZ was no different in the 
melatonin and the placebo group. At 6 months 19/24 pt that discontinued BZ maintained good sleep 
quality without BZ. 
-  Patients with Benign Prostate Hyperplasia  
©EMEA 2007 
39/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  unicenter,  randomized  double  -blind,  two  parallel  group  study  of  Circadin™  (5  mg,  once  daily) 
versus  placebo  in  a  6  months  treatment  and  a  12  months  extension  of  single  blind  treatment  with 
prolonged-release  melatonin.  Fifty  nine  (59)  Benign  Prostate  Hyperplasia  patients  (age  50--79) 
enrolled the study. All (59) patients were randomised, 57 concluded the double -blind treatment period 
and 50 concluded the 2 x 6 months of the long-term extension period of the study. 
The  results  of  daily  treatment  of  57  BPH  patients  for  6  months  with  prolonged-release  melatonin 
(5 mg) indicated no significant improvement of the prostate disease over placebo.  
The use of prolonged-release melatonin appears to be safe in terms of general safety, and endocrine 
homeostasis. Circadin appears to be safe in long term (50 patients 12 months beyond the 6 months of 
period  I)  treatment.  Upon  the  long-term  treatment,  the  prostate  disease  has  not  worsened  and 
symptoms scores as well as quality of life improved. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In the initial application (in 2000), the clinical efficacy and safety of Circadin was supported mainly 
by  one  pivotal  clinical  trial  (Neurim  VII).  This  was  a  phase  III  double-blind,  randomized  (3-week 
treatment),  placebo  controlled  study  of  efficacy  and safety  of  Circadin  2  mg  in  the  improvement  of 
sleep in ≥55 years old insomniacs.  
Although a statistical significant result of Circadin 2 mg on the target population was obtained on the 
primary  efficacy  parameter  (QOS  subjectively  assessed  by  the  Leeds  SEQ,  p=0.047),  this  trial  was 
seen  as  insufficient  to  stand  alone  in  supporting  the  efficacy  of  Circadin  given  the  background  of 
equivocal  results,  the  use  of  a  primary  analysis  that  uses  just  a  subset  of  the  items  of  the  Leeds 
questionnaire  and  the  difficulty  in  demonstrating  that  the  statistical  difference  was  indeed  clinically 
relevant. In addition, the existence of a placebo run-in period might have induced some selection bias.  
After the withdrawal, the Applicant requested formal Scientific Advice, which finally was completed 
in September 2002. 
The main recommendations of the Scientific Advice were as follows: 
1. 
Indication –“ Primary insomnia characterized by poor quality of sleep is an appropriate target 
for drug development 
2.  Primary  Efficacy  outcome  measure  :  Responder  rate  –  a  responder  demonstrates  an 
improvement by 10 mm or more on both the QOS and BFW scales of the LSEQ 
3.  Measurement  tools:  LSEQ  as  a  primary  tool,  a  confirmatory  questionnaire-PSQI  validated 
for 2 weeks, diary, and a quality of life questionnaire 
4.  Secondary outcome measure: 
a.  A straightforward measure of the effect size in each treatment group and 
the  absolute  difference  between  groups  in  sleep  quality,  daytime 
functioning and quality of life. 
b.  Use of an active comparator to help validate the outcome assessment tools 
in  a  pivotal  clinical  study.  Comparator  should  be  well  studied,  widely 
used  in  the  European  Community  and  have  minimal  adverse  effects  on 
daytime functioning. 
5.  Safety: CPMP agreed that the anticipated extent of population exposure to Circadin would 
be  sufficient  to  support  the  grant  of  a  Marketing  Authorization,  provided  that  there  are  no 
unexpected safety data that would require further investigation. 
Dose-response studies 
Neurim  IV  does  not  contribute  to  support  the  efficacy  of  Circadin  in  any  dose  in  an  unequivocal 
manner.  The  phase  were  a  relevant  effect  size  of  therapeutic  action  is  detected  for  Circadin  2 mg  is 
non-controlled and the randomised phase of the trial is inconclusive. 
The  results  of  Neurim  V  are  again  inconclusive  and  the  post-hoc  analysis  after  unblinding  cannot 
support a presumption of efficacy for which there is no strong evidence. 
In  the  previous  application,  only  NEURIM-IV  was  intended  to  be  dose  response.  It  showed  that 
patients  not  responding  to  2mg  CIRCADIN  became  responders  to  5mg,  suggesting  a  dose  response 
relationship. NEURIM-IV though was in general inconclusive and therefore the support it gives to the 
©EMEA 2007 
40/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose  response  relationship  is  moderate.  No  additional  dose  response  studies  have  been  performed 
since this previous assessment. 
Globally speaking the data collected in studies Neurim IV and V is hardly sufficient to clearly define 
the optimal dose. It is merely suggestive that a beneficial effect might occur for 2 mg in those older 
than 55 years. 
These  facts  were  debated  extensively  in  the  previous  application  as  well  as  during  the  scientific 
advice. The conduct of future trials to confirm the putative effect with the dose of 2 mg was accepted 
at the applicant risk, despite the weak evidence to support the carry on of the dose of 2 mg over other 
possibilities, into pivotal trials and because of the reasonable safety profile. 
Closure of Neurim VIII 
The premature closure of Neurim VIII was of concern for the CHMP and was discussed at length. At 
diagnosis of primary insomnia (based on the SHQ) the average number of notifications issued by the 
company  on  each  patient  included  in  Neurim  VIII  was  markedly  and  significantly  higher  than  in 
Neurim VII (1.29+1.64 objections per patient in Neurim VIII compared to 0.64+0.98 in Neurim VII; 
p=0.000002). The large number of notifications per patient raised serious doubts about the diagnosis 
of primary insomnia in a significant proportion of the study population. At least 150 among the 433 
(35%) completed patients in Neurim VIII have been identified as not suffering from primary insomnia. 
Overall, the decision to terminate the study was made on the accumulating evidence of poor eligibility 
of the patient population, unsatisfactory recruitment rate, organizational problems and concerns about 
the  reliability  of  the  data  generated.  The  fact  that  the  closure  was  not  data  driven  has  been 
demonstrated by the applicant. Furthermore the analysis made at request of CHMP if the study were to 
be  counted  showed  that  it  would  not  impact  negatively  in  the  overall  picture  of  the  efficacy  of 
Circadin.  
Pivotal trials 
Neurim  VII  was  presented  for  evaluation  still  during  the  previous  application.  It  is  the  first 
randomized  controlled  trial  to  achieve  a  statistical  significant  result  of  Circadin  2  mg  on  the  target 
population.  However  this  trial  was  seen  as  insufficient  to  stand  alone  in  supporting  the  efficacy  of 
Circadin  given  the  background  of  equivocal  results,  the  use  of  a  primary  analysis  that  uses  just  a 
subset of the items of the Leeds questionnaire and the difficulty in demonstrating that the statistical 
difference  was  indeed  clinically  relevant.  In  Neurim  VII  there  is  also  one  aspect  of  the  design  that 
might have induced some selection bias, which is the existence of placebo run-in period. Nevertheless 
Neurim VII is the first trial to produce a relative clean result that supports the efficacy of Circadin 2 
mg in the population of those older than 55. 
Neurim  IX  seen  in  perspective  with  Neurim  VIIIa  is  a  critical  trial  in  this  dossier  because  it  should 
allow  to  prove  or  disprove  the  hints  suggested  by  the  exploratory  studies  and  Neurim  VII.  It  is 
awkward  the  applicant  chose  to  adopt  a  trial  design  with  a  run-in  placebo  phase  which  is  prone  to 
induce selection bias. This is a crude technique based on the old concept of placebo effect, according 
to  which  placebo  effect  occurs  early  and  disappears  with  time.  In  fact  the  recent  studies  suggest 
otherwise:  despite  the  run-in  period  in  Neurim  VIIIa  and  Neurim  IX  there  were  25.9%  and  15%  of 
placebo responders respectively. A run-in period to ascertain patients eligibility by disease criteria is 
not the same as explicitly excluding “placebo responders” based on a pre and post run-in comparison. 
While  a  run-in  period  is  standard  practice  in  many  psychiatric  fields,  enrichment  designs  are  not 
welcomed  in  pivotal  trials.  Fortunately  the  patients  from  Neurim  IX  were  randomised  thus  making 
possible  to  reconstruct  what  would  be  a  complete  ITT  population  (Full  analysis  set  +  placebo 
responders).  The  data  of  this  pooled  analysis  demonstrate  that  the  selection  method  did  not 
compromise the applicability of the results in the Circadin clinical trials. 
The idea of conducting an independent trial to test zolpidem against placebo (Neurim VIIIa) instead of 
doing a 3 –arm trial is not the optimal solution. According to the scientific advice, the use of an active 
comparator would be intended to help validate the outcome assessment in a pivotal clinical study and 
in  particular  to  demonstrate  assay  sensitivity.  Nevertheless,  even  the  test  for  assay  sensitivity  was 
compromised  by  the  independent  trial  option.  A  3-arm  trial  with  an  active  comparator  would  have 
©EMEA 2007 
41/52 
 
 
 
 
 
given  the  opportunity  of  having  an  informative  trial.  However  the  logistics  difficulties  related  with 
different administrations times and the need of double-dummy technique are acknowledged. 
Taking  into  account  these  limitations,  the  characteristics  of  Neurim  VIIIa  and  IX  ended  up  being 
sufficiently similar to  allow an indirect comparison, which although a suboptimal  solution, provides 
some  reassurance.  Circadin  performance  seems  to  be  indeed  comparable  to  Zolpidem  10  mg  and  in 
some  aspects  can  be  better.  Nevertheless  the  rate  of  responders  in  the  zolpidem  trial  were  much 
higher, in both groups, than in Neurim IX. 
The  main  criticism,  however,  to  the  results  of  Neurim  IX  is  that  the  effect  size  is  relatively  small. 
There  are  few  responders  overall  and  the  difference  from  placebo  is  11%  (number  needed  to  treat, 
NNT=9). In fact, the actual number of patients that benefit is small (a ¼ of those exposed), and they 
are already part of a selected population (those above 55 years of age). 
However,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  endorsed  by  the  CHMP  through  scientific  advice.  It  is 
expressed as a rate of responders and includes two dimensions - the quality of sleep and the impact in 
diurnal behaviour. 
Supportive studies suggest a therapeutic effect of Circadin in some patients with the obvious exception 
of the Prostate Hypertrophy study, which was not evaluating effects on sleep. However the population 
are  not  well  characterized  and  the  results  are  difficult  to  judge  from  the  point  of  view  of  clinical 
significance. Furthermore the different studies present in the dossier suggest that melatonin produces 
an  important-carry  over  effect.  This  makes  crossover  designs  less  suitable  to  assess  the  efficacy  of 
melatonin formulations. 
Overall  the  results  in  the  different  studies  accumulated  in  this  dossier  suggest  that  the  product  is 
efficacious with a small effect size and in a relative small fraction of patients. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  total  patients  exposure  in  Circadin  (NEURIM  studies)  consists  of  1361  patients  in  short  term 
studies (1281 of them in the GCP studies I, IV, V, VII, VIII, IX and 30424) and the rest in the special 
population  studies  (951004,  951003  &  961009),  373  patients  who  received  the  compound  for  6 
months  and  146  patients  who  received  Circadin  for  one  year  or  longer.  If  studies  performed  by 
independent investigators were included (N=46) then the total patients included in short term studies 
would increase to 1926. 
•  Adverse events  
The table below describes the frequency of adverse events for the whole safety dataset (including the 
new studies VIII & IX). The most common adverse events were headache, pharyngitis, back pain, and 
asthenias,  which  were  common,  by  MedDRA  definition  (>1/100,  <1/10),  both  in  the  Circadin  and 
placebo  treated  groups  and  were  not  necessarily  related  to  treatment.  No  significant  findings  were 
described from the Physical Examination or from the Vital Signs recording.  
Table: Most frequent adverse events in the whole safety dataset 
Body System / Adverse 
Experience 
BODY AS A WHOLE 
     Asthenia 
     Headache 
     Infection 
     Pain 
     Pain Abdominal 
     Pain Back 
     Pain Neck 
N 
42 
68 
21 
21 
22 
43 
14 
CIRCADIN 
% 
Rate/100Pt 
weeks 
3.3 
5.3 
1.6 
1.6 
1.7 
3.4 
1.1 
0.28 
0.45 
0.14 
0.14 
0.14 
0.28 
0.09 
N 
24 
76 
8 
13 
24 
16 
7 
PLACEBO 
% 
Rate/100Pt 
weeks 
2.0 
6.4 
0.7 
1.1 
2.0 
1.4 
0.6 
0.51 
1.62 
0.17 
0.28 
0.51 
0.34 
0.15 
©EMEA 2007 
42/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIGESTIVE 
     Constipation 
     Diarrhea 
     Nausea 
METABOLIC & 
NUTRITIONAL 
     Weight Gain 
MUSCULOSKELETAL 
     Arthralgia 
NERVOUS 
     Anxiety 
     Dizziness 
     Dreams Abnormal 
     Insomnia 
     Migraine 
RESPIRATORY 
     Bronchitis 
     Pharyngitis 
     Rhinitis 
SKIN 
     Rash 
GRAND TOTAL 
15 
16 
19 
12 
18 
18 
20 
15 
10 
15 
29 
62 
30 
1.2 
1.3 
1.5 
0.9 
1.4 
1.4 
1.6 
1.2 
0.8 
1.2 
2.3 
4.8 
2.3 
12 
483 
0.9 
37.7 
0.10 
0.10 
0.12 
0.08 
0.12 
0.12 
0.13 
0.10 
0.07 
0.10 
0.19 
0.41 
0.20 
0.08 
3.17 
8 
15 
17 
15 
10 
17 
15 
33 
9 
15 
14 
27 
26 
0.7 
1.3 
1.4 
1.3 
0.8 
1.4 
1.3 
2.8 
0.8 
1.3 
1.2 
2.3 
2.2 
4 
385 
0.3 
32.6 
0.17 
0.32 
0.36 
0.32 
0.21 
0.36 
0.32 
0.70 
0.19 
0.32 
0.30 
0.58 
0.55 
0.09 
8.21 
•  Serious adverse events/deaths/other significant events 
19 Serious Adverse Events were registered including 3 deaths. 
The 3 deaths were due to cardiopulmonary arrest, acute pulmonary oedema, and myocardial infarction 
and all three patients were receiving Circadin. None was considered related with the study compound.  
The  other  16  SAEs  reported  were  of  various  causes:  cerebrovascular  disease,  hyperthyroidism, 
hematuria  and  hydronephrosis,  pelvic  fracture,  fractured  wrist,  ischaemic  attack  of  the  right  lower 
limb, allergic reaction, syncope, elective surgery for worsening of venous insufficiency, acute antero-
lateral  myocardial  infarction  (subendocardic),  duodenal  sphincterectomy,  fall  following  loss  of 
consciousness, left tibia fracture, cholecystitis due to vesicular calculi, recurrent TIAs with right hemi-
hypoesthesia and worsening of hypertension. Among them, 13 subjects were receiving Circadin at the 
moment of the onset of the SAE. All of them were considered not related to the compound. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No  significant  melatonin-induced  changes  in  laboratory  parameters  were  found  in  short-term  (3 
weeks) or long-term studies (up to 18 month). 
Infections of the respiratory tract 
• 
An  increase  of  the  frequency  of  infections  (of  all  kind)  in  Circadin  treated  subjects  was  recorded 
during  the  trial  programme.  This  was  attributed  to  the  inclusion  of  long-term  data  from  Neurim  V 
protocol and was corrected by adjusting the rates of the adverse events for the extent of the exposure. 
After  correction,  the  frequencies  between  the  treated  and  the  placebo  groups  appeared  to  be 
comparable.  Nevertheless,  the  applicant  committed  to  monitor  this  aspect  in  the  periodic  review  of 
post-marketing events. 
•  Eye pathology  
In one literature report, evidence of retinal toxicity after exposure to melatonin in a rat strain (albino 
rats) was described. However, no such finding was observed in the toxicology package performed by 
the applicant. In addition, the pooled clinical safety data containing nearly 2000 patients on Circadin 
does not contain any cases of retinal toxicity, nor any cases of visual acuity loss, dyschromatopsia, or 
altered  light  adaptation.  While  retinal  toxicity  represents  an  area  of  low  potential  risk  based  on 
©EMEA 2007 
43/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
experience so far, post-marketing adverse event reports involving any form of visual disturbance will 
be closely monitored and examined specifically in PSURs. 
•  Loss of consciousness and related adverse events 
Over  3  cases  of  fractures  following  falls  in  patients  taking  Circadin  (reported  as  SAEs),  2  patients 
experienced  a  partial  or  complete  loss  of  consciousness  that  was  not  temporally  consistent  with  the 
fall. In one patient, the causality between study drug and loss of consciousness that caused the fall was 
not established. 
Two of those patients were elderly with co-morbidities and taking other concomitant medications. In 
addition, one case of syncope not followed by fractures, but that caused hospitalisation, occurred in a 
patient  while  assuming  Circadin.  Also  this  patient  was  aged  and  took  other  medication  for  heart 
disease  and  other  chronic  conditions.Even  though  the  events  reported  were  considered  not  likely  to 
have a causal relationship with Circadin, post-marketing surveillance will monitor adverse events, in 
particular loss of consciousness, and interactions with other drugs such as benzodiazepines. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Elderly. Studies have been performed mostly in elderly, which constitute the target population  
It is very likely that elderly patients present a number of co-morbidities and concomitant medications 
that have not been studied. A critical analysis of post  marketing events is planned to allow ongoing 
evaluation. 
Gender.  Study  962001  results  show  that  there  is  3.3  to  4.2  fold  increase  in  melatonin  exposure  in 
females as compared to males.  However, no gender differences were found in the either cumulative 
maximal excretion of 6-SMT. 
Children and Race. No studies have been provided 
Patients with Cardiovascular Abnormality. An analysis of adverse events by cardiovascular disease 
status  was  performed.  In  this  analysis  were  included  patients  from  NEURIM-I,  NEURIM-IV, 
NEURIM-V, NEURIM-VII, NEURIM-VIII & NEURIM-IX. A total of 599 patients on Circadin and 
610 patients on placebo had at baseline a cardiovascular pathology either mentioned in the history or 
found  in  the  pretreatment  physical  examination.  As  it  is  apparent  from  the  table  below  the  adverse 
events  have  comparable  frequencies  in  the  placebo  and  Circadin  arms.  In  addition  there  are  no 
differences in the kind of Adverse Events observed in patients with cardiovascular abnormalities and 
in patients not suffering from cardiovascular disease. 
Table:  Adverse Events by Cardiovascular status 
Body System / Adverse 
Experience 
BODY AS A WHOLE 
     Asthenia 
     Headache 
     Pain 
     Pain Abdominal 
     Pain Back 
CARDIOVASCULAR 
     Hypertension 
DIGESTIVE 
     Constipation 
     Diarrhea 
CIRCADIN 
No CV 
Abnormal 
% 
N 
24 
35 
4 
13 
24 
0 
8 
7 
3.6 
5.3 
0.6 
2.0 
3.6 
0.0 
1.2 
1.1 
CV Abnormal 
N 
18 
31 
17 
7 
14 
6 
7 
9 
% 
3.0 
5.2 
2.8 
1.2 
2.3 
1.0 
1.2 
1.5 
PLACEBO 
No CV 
Abnormal 
% 
N 
CV Abnormal 
N 
% 
9 
32 
3 
16 
9 
1 
7 
2 
1.6 
5.8 
0.5 
2.9 
1.6 
0.2 
1.3 
0.4 
15 
40 
10 
7 
4 
5 
1 
13 
2.5 
6.6 
1.6 
1.1 
0.7 
0.8 
0.2 
2.1 
©EMEA 2007 
44/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Nausea 
METABOLIC & 
NUTRITIONAL 
     Weight Gain 
MUSCULOSKELETAL 
     Arthralgia 
NERVOUS 
     Anxiety 
     Dizziness 
     Dreams Abnormal 
     Migraine 
     Insomnia 
RESPIRATORY 
     Bronchitis 
     Cough Increase 
     Pharyngitis 
     Rhinitis 
GRAND TOTAL 
11 
1.7 
7 
13 
6 
8 
5 
9 
3 
18 
3 
40 
18 
248 
1.1 
2.0 
0.9 
1.2 
0.8 
1.4 
0.5 
2.7 
0.5 
6.0 
2.7 
37.3 
8 
5 
5 
11 
12 
10 
6 
7 
11 
7 
22 
12 
230 
1.3 
0.8 
0.8 
1.8 
2.0 
1.7 
1.0 
1.2 
1.8 
1.2 
3.7 
2.0 
38.4 
6 
8 
2 
5 
4 
8 
5 
4 
4 
3 
17 
14 
162 
1.1 
11 
1.8 
1.4 
0.4 
0.9 
0.7 
1.4 
0.9 
0.7 
0.7 
0.5 
3.1 
2.5 
29.3 
6 
8 
11 
11 
24 
10 
5 
10 
6 
10 
12 
216 
1.0 
1.3 
1.8 
1.8 
3.9 
1.6 
0.8 
1.6 
1.0 
1.6 
2.0 
35.4 
In addition, Neurim has reviewed the data on cardiovascular parameters on patients receiving Circadin 
in  some  of  the  pivotal  studies,  and  no  differences  in  both  heart  rate  and  blood  pressure  were  found 
between baseline and treatment readings. 
Patients  with  Nocturnal  Hypertension.  An  additional  study  was  sponsored  by  the  Company  in 
patients  suffering  from  nocturnal  hypertension  (NEU  BP).  No  safety  concerns  were  found  with 
Circadin upon 4-weeks treatment in nocturnal hypertensive patients. 
Patients with Renal/Hepatic abnormality. No data for hepatic insufficiency exists and for patients 
with renal impairment the data are limited to 8 patients participating in protocol NEU 201005. From 
the safety analysis, it is apparent that there are no differences in total of AEs for all body systems in 
the  subgroup  of  hepatic  /  renal  impairment  vs  the  total  population.  In  addition  to  these  data  the 
applicant submitted one more short-term study in patients suffering from end stage renal disease being 
on  chronic  hemodialysis.  In  this  study  the  major  findings  were  that  there  was  no  Circadin 
accumulation in the blood between week 1 and 3 and there were no safety concerns both in lab tests 
and reported AEs and SAEs (none).  
Patients with Diabetes. Two long-term studies of 5 months and 6 months were conducted in diabetic 
patients suffering from insomnia (NEU 951005, NEU 951005a). No safety concerns were found with 
Circadin upon long-term treatment (6-months) in diabetes type II patients. 
Patients with autoimmune diseases. A number of isolated published reports suggest that melatonin 
has  immune  enhancing  effect.  No  clinical  data  exists  concerning  the  use  of  Circadin  in  individuals 
with  autoimmune  diseases.  Therefore,  Circadin  is  not  recommended  for  the  use  in  patients  with 
autoimmune diseases. 
Patients with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia. A single-centre, randomised double blind, two parallel 
groups study of prolonged-release melatonin (5 mg, once daily) vs placebo in a 6 months treatment of 
patients  with  benign  prostate  hyperplasia  and  a  12  months  extension  of  single  blind  treatment  with 
prolonged-release  melatonin  was  performed  (Study  NEU  951003).  No  serious  adverse  events  were 
reported,  no  changes  in  vital  signs  (blood  pressure  and  heart  rate)  and  no  differences  in  laboratory 
values as compared to baseline values were found.   
Insomniacs  discontinuing  chronic  use  of  benzodiazepines.  A  single  centre,  randomised  double-
blind study comparing the efficacy of melatonin prolonged release (2 mg once daily) versus placebo, 
in  a  6  week  treatment  of  patients  complaining  of  insomnia  and  discontinuing  chronic  use  of 
benzodiazepines,  with  6 weeks  extension  period  of  single  blind  and  6  months  follow  up  period  of 
©EMEA 2007 
45/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Circadin  treatment  was  performed  (Study  961009).    Circadin  appeared  to  be  safe  even  when  given 
alone or concomitantly with benzodiazepines or during benzodiazepine withdrawal.  
Pregnancy and lactation. Melatonin is present in human breast milk and may communicate time of 
day information to breast-fed infants. Exogenously ingested melatonin may also reach breast milk, and 
reflect  blood  concentrations  of  melatonin  with  a  short  delay.  Although  we  have  no  evidence  that 
melatonin has an effect on breast-fed babies, treatment in breast feeding mothers is not recommended, 
as reflected in the SPC. 
Circadin is proposed only for use in patients of 55 years of age or over, and so reproduction toxicity 
and milk transfer are of little relevance to this age group. 
•  Safety  related  to  drug-drug  interactions  and  other  interactions,  overdose,  withdrawal  and 
dependence 
Drug  interactions.  The  applicant  presented  safety  data  (pooled  AEs)  from  previously  run  studies 
(30424,  NEURIM-I,  NEURIM-IV  &  NEURIM-V),  in  patients  taking  or  not  taking  concomitant 
medications.  More  specifically  in  this  analysis  the  applicant  includes  76  Circadin  patients  taking 
simultaneously hormone replacements, 37 taking Calcium channel blockers, 27 with beta-blockers, 28 
with ACE inhibitors, 113 with NSAID, 35 with antidiabetics, 53 with benzodiazepine or Zolpidem and 
20 with anticoagulants. 
Conclusions  cannot  be  drawn  from  so  small  patient  numbers.  For  the  two  biggest  groups  (hormone 
replacements and NSAIDs), there are no differences observed in frequencies and kind of AEs between 
patients on Circadin or placebo and those taking concomitant medication. 
Additional PK interaction studies were not submitted.  
Previous  interaction  studies  showed  no  PK  interaction  with  50  mg  thioridazine  and  a  possible  PD 
interaction,  no  PK  interaction  with  75  mg  imipramine  or  desipramine  but  again  with  a  possible  PD 
interaction. 
Finally, 800 mg cimetidine increased the plasma concentration of melatonin, but not the PD response 
and  neither  the  PK  of  cimetidine.  All  the  studies  had  the  same  design  i.e.  single  dose,  three  way 
crossover and the dose of Circadin was 2 mg. 
Overdose.  No  specific  cases  of  overdose  with  melatonin  administration  have  been  reported.  Short 
term  studies  with  high  exposure  at  a  dose  level  of  6.6  g/day  for  35  days  (3000  times  the  proposed 
dose), and long term use at doses of 300 mg of melatonin (150 times the proposed dose) and 0.5 mg 
norethisterone per day for four months have found no biologically significant changes in hematology 
and clinical chemistry values. 
Withdrawal  and  dependence.  Withdrawal  effects  were  assessed  in  all  of  Neurim  Pharmaceuticals’ 
clinical  studies  except  Neurim  IX  since,  according  to  the  scientific  advice,  “The  CPMP  agrees  that 
potential withdrawal effects do not need to be investigated in every study.”  
Circadin  2  mg  has  a  short  half-  life,  and  all  ingested  melatonin  should  be  cleared  within  <24 hours 
after Circadin intake; therefore early withdrawal symptoms would be expected within this time frame. 
Early  withdrawal  (up  to  48  hours)  and  late  withdrawal  symptoms  were  explored  for  safety  and 
efficacy parameters. 
Neurim have checked for potential discontinuation symptoms by examining data on the incidence of 
adverse  events,  somatic  symptom  scales  especially  designed  to  evaluate  discontinuation  symptoms 
(Chess-84, a scale that evaluates a list of somatic symptoms relating to the digestive system, CNS and, 
specifically, sleep and wake-time parameters, and Tyrer scale, which is used to record the symptoms 
of patients undergoing withdrawal from hypnotics), and sleep measures. 
The table below summarises all this data and presents some relevant numbers. 
©EMEA 2007 
46/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Withdrawal effects in Neurim studies: efficacy and safety parameters 
Study 
(parameters) 
Efficacy Variables 
Safety Variables 
Late 
Withdrawal 
Sleep: SL, 
DWAPSO, 
DWAPSOP ↔ 
Vigilance: TRT, 
MRT ↑ 
Early 
Withdrawal 
Sleep: SL, 
DWAPSO, 
DWAPSOP ↔ 
Vigilance: TRT, 
MRT ↑ 
QOS, GTS, AFS, BFW ↑ 
Sleep quality; daytime ↑ 
Sleep quality and mood during the 
day ↑ 
Neurim I (PSG; 
AEs) 
Neurim IV (Leeds; 
Diary; AEs) 
Neurim V long 
term (Diary; Chess 
84; AEs) 
Neurim VII 
(Leeds, Diary) 
QOS, GTS, AFS, BFW ↑ 
Sleep quality; daytime ↑ 
Neurim IX 
Not applicable 
Early 
Withdrawal 
4 AEs (Circadin): 
4 AEs (placebo) 
Late Withdrawal 
4 AEs (Circadin): 4 
AEs (placebo) 
AEs: 38.7% (run-in)>35.8% (double-
blind)>25.8% (withdrawal) 
CHESS 84 – 
sleep latency- 25%, 11% related to drug 
at washout vs. 53% baselines; 
sleep maintenance  - 29%, 11% related 
to drug at washout vs. 24% baselines; 
CHESS score – 1.37 (Circadin): 4.81 
(Buspirone): 7.06 (Lorazepam); 
AEs: 
43% double blind; 63% open label (12 
months); 20% withdrawal 6 months; 
13% withdrawal 12 months; 
AEs: 2 patients 
placebo:  
1 patient Circadin 
Tyrer symptoms: 
66% 
screening>60% 
baseline<63% 
treatment> 52% 
withdrawal 
AEs: 7% baseline, 
10% withdrawal 
Circadin; 11% 
withdrawal placebo 
AEs 30 days post study: 
Overall: 396 patients: 381 no AEs; 15 
AEs 7 cases Circadin: 8 cases placebo 
↔ no change compared to baseline 
↑ Better than baseline 
QOS- quality of sleep; GTS – getting to sleep; AFS – Awakening from sleep; BFW – Behaviour following wakening 
AEs – Adverse Events 
Early withdrawal – measurements made up to 48 hours after treatment stop. 
In  conclusion,  sleep  parameters  declined  during  withdrawal  following  Circadin  treatment,  to  values 
that were comparable or even significantly higher (in some studies- Neurim IV) than baseline levels. 
There was no increase in incidence of adverse events compared to those at baseline or treatment phase 
at any time in the withdrawal periods. There was no increase in somatic symptoms compared to those 
at  baseline  as  assessed  by  specially  designed  instruments  (CHESS-84  and  the  Tyrer  scale).  Finally, 
among  sleep  or  safety  parameters,  no  evidence  was  found  for  withdrawal  dependence  or  rebound 
insomnia with Circadin during early and late withdrawal, beside the re-emergence of insomnia. 
Moreover, the applicant committed to perform a post-marketing withdrawal study as described in the 
risk management plan (follow-up measure).  
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the Circadin group, there were 17 cases (1.3% of the safety population) of adverse events leading to 
discontinuation  of  the  patient.  In  the  placebo  group  there  were  42  cases  (3.6%  of  the  safety 
population) of adverse events leading to discontinuation of the patient.  
©EMEA 2007 
47/52 
 
 
 
 
 
The adverse events seen in the Circadin group were insomnia, headache, anxiety, asthenia, depression, 
dizziness, over-sedation, abdominal pain, vomiting, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, leuconeutropenia, 
ALT increase, bilirubin increase, GGT increase, alcoholic intoxication, skin rash, AE of the eye, and 
hot flushes. 
The  events  in  the  placebo  group  were  GGT  increase,  anxiety,  headache,  nausea,  dizziness,  malaise, 
sweating,  diarrhoea,  tremor,  migraine,  tachycardia, visual  disorders,  insomnia,  myalgia,  palpitations, 
BZD  withdrawal  syndrome,  asthenia,  drowsiness,  pancreatic  neoplasm,  bronchitis  and  flu  like 
syndrome. 
The  table  below  summarises  the  number  of  AEs  causing  discontinuation  from  the  study,  both  per 
study and for the pooled data. 
Table 5:  Number of Discontinuations due to AEs in Neurim studies 
Study 
Neurim I 
Neurim IV 
Neurim V double-blind 
Neurim V open label 
Neurim VII 
Neurim VIII 
Neurim IX 
Total 
Circadin 
N=1264 
Placebo 
N=1163 
---- 
9 
2 
--- 
--- 
4 
2 
--- 
20 
1 
2 
16 
3 
17 (1.3%) 
42 (3.6%) 
Considering the two pivotal studies, 2 patients under placebo withdrew from Neurim VII study, one 
patient  because  complained  day  drowsiness  and  another  due  to  dizziness.  In  Neurim  IX  protocol,  2 
patients  under  Circadin  withdrew  because  of  tracheitis  and  over  sedation,  and  3  patients  receiving 
placebo because of pressure in head & behind eyes, worsened migraine and neck pain and headaches. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Whereas melatonin has been on the market as food supplement in several countries, there is no post 
marketing experience for Circadin. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  overall  rate  of  adverse  event  is  about  37%  in  Circadin  and  31%  in  placebo  groups.  The  most 
common adverse events were headache, pharyngitis back pain and asthenia with a similar frequency 
between  Circadin  and  placebo  groups.  Dizziness,  loss  of  consciousness,  and  falls  were  occasionally 
reported. Death and serious adverse events were considered to be unrelated or improbably related to 
the treatment with Circadin. 
No  additional  data  exist  for  hepatic  insufficiency  patients  and  very  limited  for  renal  insufficiency 
(8 patients). In both populations, use of melatonin is not recommended as reflected in the SPC.  
Underlying cardiovascular diseases did not modify the safety profile of Circadin. 
In conclusion, according to the available clinical results, Circadin appears to be safe and well tolerated 
the recommended dose and indication. 
©EMEA 2007 
48/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
pharmacovigilance.  A  statement  signed  by  the  applicant  and  the  qualified  person  for  the 
pharmacovigilance , indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notifications  of  any  adverse  reaction  occurring 
either in the Community or in a third country has been provided. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notifications  of  any  adverse 
reaction occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan.  
The safety profile of Circadin as defined in the current application is relatively benign without many 
topics deserving special attentiveness.  
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Thyroid follicular 
cell hypertrophy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Visual disturbances 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of thyroid follicular 
cell hypertrophy. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
•  Produce educational packs for GPs 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of visual 
disturbances. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of infections. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
©EMEA 2007 
49/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Immune system 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Drug interactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Drug withdrawal 
•  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
•  A post-marketing study 
will examine withdrawal 
in the general population 
based on CHMP guidance 
Loss of 
Consciousness 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of immune system 
disorders. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of drug interactions. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Neurim will review the 
risk management plan if there are any 
spontaneous reports of drug withdrawal. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
In addition, the risk minimisation and risk 
communication plan will be determined 
when data from the post-marketing study 
becomes available 
•  Post-Marketing Reports: 
Following launch, Following launch, 
Neurim will review the risk management 
plan if there are any spontaneous reports 
of loss of consciousness. 
If a review of cases suggests risk: 
•  Add warning in Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC 
•  List as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the 
SmPC 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Additionally, the applicant will perform a post-marketing study examining withdrawal in the general 
population (follow-up measure) 
©EMEA 2007 
50/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  Quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on 
the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and  committed  to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The putative role of melatonin in regulating sleep and how this role is mediated remains unclear. In 
vitro,  melatonin  is  described  in  the  literature  as  acting  at  the  central  nervous  system  level  possibly 
involving  interaction  with  melatonin  MT1  and  MT2  receptor  subtypes.  In  vivo,  studies  in  animal 
looked essentially at sleep induction effects, but the results are difficult to interpret and extrapolate to 
humans. 
The  mean  oral  bioavailability  varies  from  17%  to  100  %  depending  on  the  dose  and  the  animal 
species.  Melatonin  is  promptly  distributed  in  tissues  and  rapidly  metabolised  in  the  liver  mainly  by 
CYP1A enzymes. The main excretion route is renal excreted as sulfo-conjugates or gluco-conjugates. 
Melatonin has a low toxicity after single administration. In repeat-dose toxicity (rats and dog) effects 
on the liver (hypertrophy) and genital tract of male rats and female dogs were observe at exposure in 
large excess of the intended human exposure at therapeutic dose. 
In  reproductive  studies,  melatonin  induced  some  toxicological  effects  on  the  embryo-foetal 
development  in rabbits and on the postnatal developmental in rats. Therefore, the use of Circadin is 
not recommended during pregnancy and lactation. This is reflected in sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SPC. 
The carcinogenic potential, has not been completely elucidated in view of the thyroid findings in the 
rat  carcinogenicity  study  and  further  mechanistic  data  will  be  provided  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment.  Since  no  genotoxic  properties  have  been  identified  for  melatonin,  and  as  the  animal 
exposure was in large excess to the expected one in the clinic, considering also that the treatment is 
not proposed to be continuous for long periods, and provided that this well established mechanism of 
thyroid tumorigenesis in rodents can be clearly proven by the applicant (follow-up measure), the risk 
to humans appears to be minimal. 
Efficacy 
The two pivotal trials, Neurim VII and Neurim IX have shown a statistically significant effect on the 
rate  of  responders,  based  on  both  combined  criteria  of  “quality  of  sleep”  and  “behaviour  following 
wakefulness” with 14% difference compared to placebo in a pooled analysis (20% for Neurim VII and 
11 % for Neurim  IX). The effect size  is recognised to be small.  Comparison between zolpidem and 
Circadin on QOS appears to be similar in magnitude and variability, although this comparison, which 
is based on a separate study, is questionable. 
Overall  the  results  in  the  different  studies  accumulated  in  this  dossier  suggest  that  the  product  is 
efficacious with a small effect size and in a relative small fraction of patients. 
Safety 
From the safety database, all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
©EMEA 2007 
51/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  overall  rate  of  adverse  event  is  about  37%  in  Circadin  and  31%  in  placebo  groups.  The  most 
common adverse events were headache, pharyngitis back pain and asthenia with a similar frequency 
between  Circadin  and  placebo  groups.  Dizziness,  loss  of  consciousness,  and  falls  were  occasionally 
reported. Death and serious adverse events were considered to be unrelated or improbably related to 
the treatment with Circadin. 
No  additional  data  exist  for  hepatic  insufficiency  patients  and  very  limited  for  renal  insufficiency 
(8 patients). In both populations, use of melatonin is not recommended as reflected in the SPC.  
Underlying cardiovascular diseases did not modify the safety profile of Circadin. 
In conclusion, according to the available clinical results, Circadin appears to be safe and well tolerated 
at the recommended dose and indication. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 of this document adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The user test consultation, provided with the response to the list of question was satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  routine  pharmacovigilance  was  adequate  to  monitor  the  safety  of  the  product  and  in 
particular for the following areas: 
o  Any post-marketing reports of thyroid findings. Furthermore thyroid 
hormone  measurements  will  be  performed  in  available  sample  from 
animal studies and clinical trials (follow-up measure) 
o  Any post-marketing reports involving any form of visual disturbance, 
o  Any  post-marketing  reports  regarding  loss  of  consciousness  and 
related adverse event (e.g. syncope), 
o  The  rate  of  infectious  diseases  will  be  periodically  reviewed  in  the 
PSURs, 
o  The  risks  of  withdrawal,  dependence  and  abuse  will  be  carefully 
monitored and will be subject to a careful post-marketing monitoring. 
Additionally, the applicant will perform a post-marketing study examining withdrawal in the general 
population (follow-up measure). 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Circadin,  as  monotherapy,  in  the  short-term  treatment  of 
primary  insomnia  characterized  by  poor  quality  of  sleep  in  patients  who  are  aged  55  or  over,  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
52/52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
