18 December 2014 
EMA/85025/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Circadin  
(melatonin)  
Procedure no.: EMA/H/C/695/P46/019 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): RAD Neurim Pharmaceuticals EEC Ltd. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all commercially confidential information deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 8 September 2014, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for CHDR1219 (NEU child-PK), 
in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
These data are also submitted as part of the Measure 4 in agreed PIP (EMEA-000440-PIP02-11-M01; 
P/0117/02) 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that CHDR1219 (NEU child-PK) is part of a clinical development program. The variation 
application  consisting  of the  full  relevant  data  package  (i.e  containing  several  studies)  is  expected  to 
be submitted by 02/18. A line listing of all the concerned studies is annexed below. 
 
  
 
 
 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study<ies> 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
CHDR1219 (NEU child-PK); 
2.3.2.  •Clinical study 
CHDR1219 (NEU child-PK) 
Description 
Open  label,  Single  Ascending  Dose,  Cross-over  Study  to  Assess  the  Pharmacokinetics  of  Circadin® 
(Prolonged-Release  Melatonin)  Mini  tablets  in  Children  with  Neurodevelopmental  disorders  and  Sleep 
Disturbances 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
- To establish the 24-hour baseline profile of endogenous saliva melatonin concentrations and urine 6-
SMT excretion in children with neurodevelopmental disorders with sleep disturbances over the age of 2 
and under the age of 18 years. 
-  To  establish  the  concentration-time  profile  of  saliva  melatonin  concentrations  and  24  hour  6-SMT 
urine  excretion  after  2  and  10  mg  Circadin®  mini-tablets  single  dose  administration  in  children  with 
neurodevelopmental  disorders  with  sleep  disturbances  over  the  age  of  2  and  under  the  age  of  18 
years. 
-  To  evaluate  the  adverse  event  profile  after  a  single  dose  of  2  or  10  mg  Circadin®  mini-tablets  in 
children  with  neurodevelopmental  disorders  with  sleep  disturbances  over  the  age  of  2  and  under  the 
age of 18 years. 
Study design 
open-label, single ascending dose study of 2 and 10 mg Circadin® minitablets with a wash-out of ≥ 7 
days. 
Study population /Sample size 
16  children  (eight  aged  2-10  years;  eight  aged  11-18  years)  with  autistic  spectrum  disorder  (ASD), 
Smith-Magenis syndrome, Angelman syndrome or Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (Bourneville’s disease) 
who suffer from sleep disturbances. 
Treatments 
Treatment arms will be (1) 2 mg Circadin (2 mini-tablets of 1 mg each), and (2) 10 mg Circadin (10 
mini-tablets of 1 mg each). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Endpoints of the study: 
-  24-hour  baseline  profile  of  endogenous  saliva  melatonin  concentrations  and  urine  6-SMT  excretion 
(12 hours + 12 hours); 
- Concentration-time profile of saliva melatonin concentrations and 24-hour 6-SMT urine excretion (12 
hours + 12 hours) after intake of 2 or 10 mg Circadin® minitablets. 
Statistical Methods 
Planned sample size 
The planned sample consists of 16 subjects (eight in the age group 2-10 years; eight in the age group 
11-18 years). 
Power calculation 
This is an exploratory pharmacokinetic study in children with ASD or neurogenetic disorders. A formal 
power  calculation  has  not  been  performed.  However,  based  on  previous  experience,  a  sample  size  of 
16 subjects should suffice for determination of PK parameters. 
Statistical plan and methods to be employed 
Results of questionnaires will be reported using descriptive statistics only. Adverse events will be listed 
as well as summarized by system organ class, dose level and treatment. 
Pharmacometric analysis 
Individual saliva melatonin profiles will be plotted and descriptive statistics per planned sampling time 
point and treatment will be provided, including mean, SD, minimum, maximum, and median. 
Population pharmacokinetic modeling using NONlinear Mixed Effects Modeling (NONMEM) will be used 
to  interpret  the  pharmacokinetic  data.  Effects  of  potential  modulating  factors  like  body  weight  or 
pubertal stage will be investigated. Individual PK parameters will be derived from the model, including 
(time  to)  peak  concentration  (Tmax,  Cmax),  area  under  the  curve  (AUC),  clearance  and  elimination 
half-life (t1/2). 
Selection of subjects to be included in the analysis 
Before the data analysis,  a data review will be done. This  will allow identification of missing, unused, 
and spurious data. The data review will be an integral part of the report and includes the decisions on 
and  documentation  of  the  handling  of  the  missing,  unused,  and  spurious  data.  Data  of  all  subjects 
participating in the study will be included in the analyses if the data can meaningfully contribute to the 
objectives of the study. 
Reporting deviations from the original statistical plan 
Deviations from the original statistical plan will be documented in the study report. 
 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A  total  of  16  subjects  (12  male,  4  female)  were  enrolled  in  the  study  centre  in  the  Netherlands.  All 
subjects completed the study as planned. 
The  study  was  conducted  from  January  2013  to  March  2014,  with  the  first  subject,  first  visit  on  23 
January  2013  and  the  first  study  drug  administration  on  7  February  2013.  The  last  study  drug 
administration was on 14 March 2013. The last follow up phone call was performed on 25 March 2014. 
Baseline data 
The  demographic  and  key  baseline  characteristics  of  study  subjects  are  summarised  in  Table  1.  All 
subjects  who  were  included  in  the  study  fulfilled  the  inclusion  criteria  and  did  not  meet  any  of  the 
exclusion criteria. 
The study population was  75% male and 25% female. The mean age was 10.9 years (range 7 to 15 
years),  with  a  mean  weight  of  43.3  kg  (range  26  to  67  kg).  All  subjects  included  in  the  study  had 
autism spectrum disorder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Summary of subject population and disposition. 
Concomitant disease 
All of the subjects had a recorded medical history. However, none of the anomalies reported affected 
their eligibility for the study. 
Efficacy results 
The  endogenous  levels  of  melatonin  and  its  major  metabolite  6-SMT  in  this  patient  group  were 
generally  low,  with  lower  levels  during  the  day  compared  to  night  hours.  This  confirms  the  low 
endogenous levels found in earlier studies in children with ASD. 
 
 
 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  Circadin®  mini  tablets  2  mg  was  similar  to  the  profile  measured 
with  the  Circadin®  2  mg  commercial  tablet  in  adults  demonstrating  a  prolonged  release  profile  that 
mimics the endogenous profile of the hormone in healthy subjects. 
Overall, this study demonstrated the safety, acceptability and prolonged-release profile of 2 mg and 10 
mg Circadin® mini-tablets in school-aged children and adolescents with autistic spectrum disorder. 
Measurements of treatment compliance 
The investigator or his deputy supervised the drug administrations, which were specifically recorded in 
the CRF. The measurement of melatonin in saliva samples confirmed compliance. 
Bioanalytical conduct 
A total of 369 saliva samples were received frozen in good condition by ABL, the Netherlands; all were 
analyzed  for  melatonin.  The  final  results  are  listed  in  Appendix  15.2.  The  analytical  study  report 
describes the accuracy, linearity, and precision of the analytical method employed. A total of 96 urine 
samples were received frozen in good condition by ABL, the Netherlands; all were analyzed for 6-SMT. 
Pharmacokinetic results 
Oral Contamination 
A  saliva  sample  was  taken  2  minutes  after  administration  to  measure  saliva  contamination  by 
melatonin. The sample taken after 2 minutes was not included in the PK analysis. Summary of saliva 
melatonin  concentrations  of  the  contamination  sample  are  shown  in  Figure  1  and  Table  2.  Following 
administration  of  Circadin  2  mg  and  Circadin  10  mg,  3  and  8  samples  were  above  the  ULOQ, 
respectively. Following administration of Circadin 10 mg, 1 sample was below the LLOQ. 
Figure 1 - Concentration of melatonin measured in saliva (contamination sample), PK population. 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Summary of melatonin contamination sample of melatonin measured in saliva, PK population. 
Endogenous melatonin and melatonin pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  melatonin  were  calculated  on  the  basis  of  the  actual  saliva-sampling 
time points. The summary figures are based on scheduled saliva-sampling time points. 
For endogenous melatonin concentrations measured in the 24 hours prior to administration of Circadin 
mini-tablets,  each  individual  had  several  observations  above  the  LLOQ  (2  pg/mL).  For  almost  all 
subjects  (14/16),  melatonin  levels  were  missing  at  time  points  between  23:00  PM  and  7:00  AM,  as 
samples were not taken because the subject was sleeping. 
Lambda_z  and  its  derived  parameters  (Term  (t½  ),  AUC_0_inf,  PercAUCExtrap,  CL_F,V_F)  were 
excluded  from  analysis  (Table  3)  for  the  following  subjects,  as  lambda  could  not  be  accurately 
estimated for these individuals.  
Table 3 Excluded data based on Lambda_z 
PK Population 
Summaries  of  the  PK  parameters  for  the  PK  population  of  melatonin  in  saliva  per  treatment  are 
presented in Table 4 (Circadin 2 mg), Table 5 (Circadin 10 mg). The plasma concentration-time profile 
of  melatonin  was  characterized  by  rapid  absorption  and  disposition  (Table 4  and  Table  5).  The  mean 
tmax was less than 2 hours for both 2 and 10 mg  Circadin mini-tablets and  concentrations remained 
elevated for several hours thereafter. Circadin exposure increased 5-fold with a 5-fold increase in dose 
saliva was dose-linear and apparent clearance in saliva was comparable between dose groups. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Summary PK parameters of Circadin 2 mg, PK population 
Table 5 Summary PK parameters of Circadin 10 mg, PK population 
Endogenous 6-SMT levels and 6-SMT pharmacokinetics 
Total  6-SMT  amounts  are  provided  in  Figure  5  for  the  safety  population  and  Figure  6  for  the  PK 
population. 
Figure 5 Total 6-SMT measured in urine during baseline, safety population. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Total 6-SMT measured in urine following Circadin 2 mg, PK population. 
For  the  safety  population,  the  mean  amount  of  total  6-SMT  recovered  from  urine  during  the  baseline 
period was 4.2 ug following the 0-12 hour collection period, during the daytime and 13.5 ug following 
the 12-24 hour collection period, during the night. For the PK population, following administration with 
Circadin 2 mg the mean amount of total 6-SMT recovered from urine was 989.5 ug following the 0-12 
hour collection period and 95.3 ug following the 12-24 hour collection period. 
Following  dosing  with  Circardin  10  mg,  many  of  the  6-SMT  values  were  above  the  upper  limit  of 
quantification  (ULOQ)  during  the  collection  period  0-12  hours  follow  dosing  (further  dilution  of  the 
samples  was  not  validated).  This  reflects  the  expected  extensive  metabolism  of  melatonin  and 
excretion of 6-SMT in the first 12 hours following dose administration. 
Conclusions on pharmacokinetic results 
Baseline melatonin concentrations were characteristic, being low in the morning and increased over 12 
hours towards the evening yet showed overall low endogenous levels. These results were confirmed by 
baseline  6-SMT  measured  with  lower  amounts  recovered  during  the  day-time  collection  period 
compared with the night-time collection period. In the safety population, the mean 6-SMT levels during 
the  day  were  4.2  ug/12  daytime  hours  and  13.5  ug  /12  night-time  hours  showing  normal  pattern  of 
higher levels during the night compared to daytime but very low absolute endogenous levels. 
Following Circadin administration, melatonin concentrations peaked within 2 hours after administration 
and remained elevated for several hours thereafter. The pharmacokinetic profile achieved in the saliva 
is  similar  to  the  profile  achieved  with  Circadin  tablets  in  adults  and  the  elderly,  i.e.,  the  desired 
prolonged release profile is demonstrated in ASD children after 2 and 10 mg minitablet administration. 
Circadin  exposure  derived  from  area  under  the  curve  (AUC)  data  was  dose-linear  and  apparent 
clearance  was  approximately  1,000  L/hr  and  comparable  between  dose  groups.  Median  apparent 
terminal  half-life  was  comparable  between  2  and  10  mg  dose  groups.  The  apparent  volume  of 
 
 
distribution  in  saliva  appeared  to  be  smaller  (with  comparable  clearance)  with  increasing  dose. 
However, data regarding dose effects on this parameter should be interpreted with caution as the Area 
Under the Moment Curve (AUMC) was established only on a limited number of subjects. 
Pharmacodynamic results 
A summary of the pharmacodynamic results are given in this section. Full results are given in following 
sections, and any issues potentially affecting these results are discussed within the appropriate section. 
Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation Scale 
A  summary  of  responses  to  the  Observer's  Assessment  of  Alertness/Sedation  Scale  (OAA/S)  are 
presented in Figure 7. 
Following  morning  administration  of  Circadin  (2  mg  or  10  mg),  most  subjects  were  assessed  by 
Observer's  Assessment  of  Alertness/Sedation  Scale  to  have  a  mild  increase  in  sedation,  with  most 
scores  indicating  'drowsy/normal  speech'  or  'slow  reaction  to  verbal'.  Only  one  subject  (subject  9) 
reported a transitory score 'reacts to soft touch'. 
Figure  7  Response-time  profile  of  Observer's  Assessment  of  Alertness/Sedation  Scale,  safety 
population. 
Conclusions on pharmacodynamic results 
Following morning administration of Circadin, most subjects were assessed by Observer's Assessment 
of  Alertness/Sedation  Scale  to  have  a  mild  increase  in  sedation  following  Circadin  (2  mg  or  10  mg) 
administration,  with  most  scores  indicating  'drowsy/normal  speech'  or  'slow  reaction  to  verbal'.  Only 
one  subject  (subject  9)  reported  a  transitory  score  'reacts  to  soft  touch'.  Sedation  after  the  2  mg 
Circadin  dose  peaked  at  2  hours  which  is  around  Tmax  time  of  the  PK  profile  demonstrating  PK/PD 
correlation. 
 
 
 
Safety results 
The extent of exposure of each participant and the overall exposure was not described. 
Adverse events 
All AE are summarised in Table 6. 
Table 6 Number (%) of subjects who had at least 1 adverse event, grouped by system organ class and 
preferred term, safety population 
Adverse  events  with  a  possible  or  probable  relationship  with  administration  of  2  and  10  mg  Circadin 
included fatigue (in 7 out of 16 subjects after 2 mg; 8 out of 16 after 10 mg), sensation of heaviness 
(1 out of 16 after 2 mg), somnolence (3 out of 16 after 2 mg; 2 out of 16 after 10 mg), falling asleep 
(2 out of 16 after both 2 and 10 mg), headache (1 out of 16 after 2 mg; 3 out of 16 after 10 mg), and 
nausea  (1  out  of  16  after  10  mg).  All  adverse  events  were  transient  and  mild.  Nausea,  fatigue  and 
headache were more frequently reported following Circadin 10 mg compared with Circadin 2 mg. 
Deaths 
No deaths occurred during the study. 
Serious adverse events other than deaths 
No subjects had a serious adverse event other than death during the study. 
Discontinuations due to adverse events 
No subjects were discontinued from study treatment due to an adverse event. 
Other significant adverse events 
No subjects had any 'other significant adverse event'. 
Other observations 
Follow-up questionnaire 
A summary of responses to the follow-up questionnaire by children is presented in Table 7 and Table 
8; responses by parents/legal guardians are given in Table 9. 
 
 
Table 7 Number (%) of respondents (children) per closed question, safety population 
Table 8 Number (%) of respondents (children) per open question, safety population 
 
Table 9 Number (%) of respondents (caregivers) per question, safety population 
 
Overall, participants and caregivers were positive about burden and duration of the study. Nearly all of 
subjects (68.75%) and their caregivers (87.5%) stated they would consider (consent for) participation 
again.  Most  children  found  saliva  sampling  not  bothersome.  The  4  subjects  who  indicated  that  saliva 
sampling  was  somewhat  bothersome  were  10,  11,  13  and  15  year  old.  The  child  who  would  not 
participate  again,  found  participation  rather  nice,  but  found  study  day  duration  long  and  the  urine 
sampling  a  bit  bothersome.  The  parent  who  would  not  consent  for  participation  in  similar  research 
found the child’s participation very nice, but thought saliva and urine sampling were a bit bothersome, 
as did the child. The child itself found participating not so nice and didn’t know if it would participate 
again. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions on safety results 
All  subjects  were  able  to  swallow  the  tablets,  none  of  the  subjects  chewed,  spat  out,  chocked  on  or 
refused to take the tablets. 
In general, both treatments were well tolerated. Just over half of the 16 subjects reported at least one 
AE of mild intensity during the study following either Circadin 2 mg (N=11, 68.8%) or Circadin 10 mg 
(N=9, 56.3%) administration. No moderate or severe AEs and no deaths or other SAEs occurred. 
The  most  frequently  reported  treatment-emergent  AEs  were  headache,  fatigue,  somnolence,  sudden 
onset  of  sleep,  sensation  of  heaviness  and  nausea.  Most  of  these  are  to  be  expected  based  on  the 
known effects of melatonin. 
Overall,  subjects  and  caregivers  were  positive  about  burden  and  duration  of  the  study.  Nearly  all  of 
subjects (68.75%) and their caregivers (87.5%) stated they would consider (consent for) participation 
again. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Endogenous Melatonin and Pharmacokinetics 
Baseline  melatonin  concentrations  were  characteristic  of  daytime  sampling,  being  low  in  the  morning 
and  increased  over  12  hours  towards  the  evening  yet  showed  overall  low  endogenous  levels.  These 
results  were  confirmed  by  baseline  6-SMT  measured  with  lower  amounts  recovered  during  the  day-
time  collection  period  compared  with  the  night-time  collection  period.  In  the  safety  population,  the 
mean  6-SMT  levels  during  the  day  were  4.2  ug/12  daytime  hours  and  13.5  ug  /12  night-time  hours 
showing  normal  pattern  of  higher  levels during  the night  compared  to  daytime  but  very  low  absolute 
endogenous levels. 
In  the  PK  population,  the  plasma  concentration-time  profile  of  melatonin  was  characterized  by  rapid 
absorption and disposition, with a mean Cmax of 965 pg/mL, mean tmax of 1.57 hours, mean AUC0-∞ 
of  2370  pg  h/mL,  and  t½  of  5.74  hours  following  Circadin  2  mg.  Following  oral  administration  of 
Circadin  10  mg  a  mean  Cmax  of  3970  pg/mL,  mean  tmax  of  1.37  hours,  mean  AUC0-∞  of  13,300 
pg.h/mL, and t½ of 4.44 hours was observed. In the sub-analysis population, representing a group of 
subjects  who  did  not  seem  to  have  much  saliva  melatonin  contamination  from  the  mini-tablets,  the 
plasma  concentration-time  profile  of  melatonin  was  also  characterized  by  rapid  absorption  and 
disposition,  with  a  mean  Cmax  of  410  pg/mL,  mean  tmax  of  1.73  hours,  mean  AUC0-∞  of  2150 
pg.h/mL, and t½ of 4.87 hours following Circadin 2 mg. 
Determination  of  the  melatonin  metabolite,  6-SMT,  in  urine  indicated  extensive  metabolism  and 
excretion in the first 12 hours following dose administration. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Following  morning  administration  of  Circadin,  most  subjects  assessed  by  Observer's  Assessment  of 
Alertness/Sedation  Scale  had  a  mild  increase  in  sedation  following  Circadin  (2  mg  or  10  mg) 
administration with peak levels at 2 hours, around tmax time with the 2 mg dose. 
Safety and tolerability 
In  this  study  of  children  with  autism  spectrum  disorder  (aged  7  -15  years),  single  morning  doses  of 
Circadin of 2 or 10 mg were well tolerated, with no severe, serious, or significant AEs. Most AEs are to 
be expected based on the mechanism of action of melatonin. The most frequently reported treatment-
emergent AEs were headache, fatigue, somnolence, sudden onset of sleep, sensation of heaviness and 
 
nausea.  Nausea,  fatigue  and  headache  were  more  frequently  reported  following  Circadin  10  mg 
compared with Circadin 2 mg. 
3.  CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
This study accomplishes Measure 4 of the agreed PIP for melatonin. It should be of note that morning 
administration of melatonin is not physiological. As such, both efficacy and safety data relate to a non-
physiological  administration.  Notwithstanding,  the  PK  /  safety  /  saliva  as  an  acceptable  method  of 
melatonin  kinetics  tool,  were  objectives  fulfilled  by  the  study.  It  has  provided  reasonable  data  in  the 
studied population regarding administration of prolonged release melatonin tablets. Data on two other 
relevant aspects was also presented: pharmacodynamic insight from sleep related symptoms and the 
easiness  of  the  study  sampling,  questionnaires,  and  overall  methodology,  both  for  the  caregivers 
(parents) and children. 
Regarding  safety,  most  adverse  events  are  within  the  expected  effect  of  the  product  (somnolence), 
and previously known AEs, particularly fatigue, headache and GI events. 
The  extent  of  exposure  as  a  group  and  individually  has  not  been  specifically  presented  on  graph  or 
table,  although  it  was  mentioned  that  this  information  would  be  presented.  This  aspect  should  be 
addressed by the time of submission of a consolidated application. 
The CHMP concluded that these preliminary data did not impact the current B/R profile of Circadin. 
Overall conclusion 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable. 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
Product Name:  Circadin 
Active substance: Melatonin 
Clinical studies 
Product Name:  Circadin 
Active substance: Melatonin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
