European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Clopidogrel Teva  
International Nonproprietary Name: 
clopidogrel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001053 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18  8545 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
1.1 
1.2 
2. 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE
........................................... 3 
Submission of the dossier
........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
.......................................................................... 4 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION
................................................................................................. 5 
Introduction
.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects
......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects
................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects
....................................................................................................................... 9 
Pharmacovigilance
................................................................................................................. 14 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation
...................................... 15 
© EMEA 2009  
 2/15 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  TEVA  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  15  July  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Clopidogrel Teva, in accordance with 
the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix 75 mg Film-coated tablets 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC, France 
  Date of authorisation: (dd-mm-yyyy) 15-07-1998 
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001-007 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
 Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix 75 mg Film-coated tablets 
 Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC, France 
 Date of authorisation:  (dd-mm-yyyy) 15-07-1998 
 Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
 Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/069/001-007 
The Rapporteurs appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Pharmacovigilance Rapporteur : 
Dr. Lipnik-Štangelj 
Prof. Sampaio 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
Clopidogrel Teva has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Canada on 14 March 2007. 
Clopidogrel Teva has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Israel on 31 January 2008. 
© EMEA 2009  
 3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMEA on 15 July 2008.  
The procedure started on 20 August 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  07 
November 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  15-18  December  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 18 December 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  13 
February 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 03 April 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 07 May 2009.  
During the meeting on 26 to 29 May 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Clopidogrel Teva 75 mg Film-coated tablets on 29 May 2009.  
© EMEA 2009  
 4/15 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
 SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Clopidogrel  Teva  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  the  active 
substance clopidogrel as clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate. The reference medicinal product is Plavix 75 
mg film-coated tablets, also containing clopidogrel in the form of hydrogen sulphate. Plavix has been 
centrally authorised on 15 July 1998. Both medicinal products are administered orally. Bioequivalence 
has been demonstrated to the reference medicinal product. 
Clopidogrel is a non-competitive inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) at the platelet receptors. 
The  effect  of  ADP  on  platelets  is  mediated  by  two  G-protein  coupled  P2Y  receptors  (P2Y1  and 
P2Y12) and the cation channel-coupled P2X1 receptor. The adenylate cyclase-coupled ADP receptor 
P2Y12 is the main target of clopidogrel and leads to inhibition of platelet activation, aggregation, and 
Gp  IIb/IIIa  receptor  activation.  Clopidogrel  is  a  thienopyridine  and  only  the  S-enantiomer  is 
pharmacologically active. 
The safety and efficacy profile of clopidogrel has been demonstrated in several clinical trials, details 
of  which  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Plavix.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Clopidogrel Teva 75 mg 
film-coated  tablet  contains  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate.  Since  this  application  is  a  generic 
application  referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix,  summary  of  the  clinical  data  of 
clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  is  available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted with clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate.  
The indication proposed for Clopidogrel Teva is the same as the authorised indication for the reference 
medicinal product: 
Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
• Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The medicinal product Clopidogrel Teva contains as active substance 97.875 mg clopidogrel hydrogen 
sulphate  corresponding  to  75  mg  clopidogrel  base.  Other  ingredients  include;  (tablet  core):  lactose 
monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), crospovidone, hydrogenated 
vegetable  oil,  sodium  laurilsulphate,  (tablet  coating):  lactose  monohydrate,  hypromellose  (E464), 
titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol 4000, iron oxide red (E172), iron oxide yellow (E172) and indigo 
carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
Clopidogrel Teva is presented as light pink to pink, film-coated capsule shaped tablets. One side of the 
tablet  is  debossed  with  the  number  “93”,  the  other  side  of  the  tablet  is  debossed  with  the  number 
“7314”.  The  tablets  are  packed  in  aluminium–aluminium  perforated  unit-dose  blisters  or  in  HDPE 
bottles with polypropylene closures or child resistant polypropylene closures and silica gel desiccant. 
© EMEA 2009  
 5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance  
The  chemical  name  for  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  is  Methyl(+)-(S)--(2-chlorophenyl)-6,7-
dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridine-5(4H)-acetate sulphate (1:1). The active substance is optically active and 
is presented as the S-enantiomer in the finished product. 
There is no monograph for clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate in the Ph. Eur., but there is one in the USP. 
Clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  (syn.  clopidogrel  bisulfate)  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  non-
hygroscopic  powder.  Clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  exists  in  several  crystalline  forms  and  in  an 
amorphous  form.  However,  this  medicinal  product  contains  one  pure  polymorph  form  and  does  not 
contain any detectable amounts of other forms.  
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate is practically insoluble in water at neutral pH, but freely soluble at pH 
1.0.  It  is  freely  is  soluble  in  methanol,  dissolves  sparingly  in  methylene  chloride,  and  is  practically 
insoluble in ethyl ether.  
The active ingredient has been fully characterised and the chemical structure of clopidogrel hydrogen 
sulphate  has  been  confirmed  using  analytical  data  by  1H  NMR,  13C  NMR,  MS,  FT-IR,  elemental 
analysis (for the elements: C, H, N, S, Cl), and the chosen polymorphic form is confirmed by XRPD. 
All data are consistent with the proposed structure.  
  Manufacture 
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate is obtained by a synthetic manufacturing process of five steps. Detailed 
information  about  the  manufacturing,  validation  and  analytical  controls  of  the  active  substance  has 
been supplied in the form of an active substance master file (ASMF). The starting materials have been 
adequately characterized and the manufacturing process has adequately been validated. No component 
of animal or human origin is used in the manufacturing process and therefore, there is no TSE risk. 
  Specification 
Appropriate  active  substance  specifications  have been  proposed.  As  there  is  no  Ph.  Eur.  monograph 
for the active substance, in-house specifications are proposed partly based on the USP monograph of 
clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate.  
The specifications include tests for appearance, identity (FTIR, HPLC), assay and organic impurities 
(HPLC), polymorph form, heavy metals, sulphated ash, water content, residual solvents, particle size 
distribution, bulk density and tapped density. The analytical methods are described in the Ph.Eur. or 
are  developed  in-house.  The  in-house  methods  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated  in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. 
The limits  set for impurities and residual solvents are acceptable  and there is  no concern in relation 
with safety or efficacy. The batch analysis data provided support the proposed acceptance limits and 
show that the manufacturing process is under control. 
  Stability 
Results of two stability studies have been provided. Both encompass long term and accelerated study 
conditions.  The  stability  study  conditions,  numbers  of  batches  tested  and  testing  frequency  are  in 
accordance with the relevant ICH guidelines. The test parameters investigated in these stability studies 
are: appearance, identification by HPLC and XPRD (for polymorphic form), chromatographic purity 
(i.e.  unspecified  individual  impurity,  total  impurities),  enantiomeric  purity  and  assay  of  clopidogrel 
hydrogen  sulphate.  The  stability  data  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  without  special  storage 
conditions. 
© EMEA 2009  
 6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  a  stable  immediate-release  tablet, 
bioequivalent with the reference medicinal product, Plavix film-coated tablets. 
Experimental  batches  have  been  prepared  in  order  to  select  the  most  suitable  excipients  and 
manufacturing method. The obtained formulations have been compared with Plavix with regards to in-
vitro dissolution test results and the impurities in the stability studies.  
Based  on  the  results,  a  formulation  containing  hydrogenated  vegetable  oil  type  I  and  sodium 
laurilsulphate as lubricants and crospovidone as disintegrant was selected.  
  Adventitious agents 
Clopidogrel  Teva  contains  only  one  excipient  from  animal  origin.  Lactose  monohydrate  is  derived 
from  milk  sourced  from  healthy  animals  in  the  same  conditions  as  milk  collected  for  human 
consumption. The supplier has provided the required statements on the risk of BSE/TSE. 
  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing process is a well known and standard process and is satisfactorily described and 
validated. The critical steps in the manufacture of Clopidogrel Teva are controlled by appropriate in-
process controls.  
The  manufacturing  process  demonstrates  to  be  reproducible  and  provides  a  finished  product  that 
complies with the in-process and finished product specifications. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  comply  with  the  monographs  of  the  current  Ph.Eur,  except 
hydrogenated  vegetable  oil  type  I  and  coating  mixture  Opadry.  Hydrogenated  vegetable  oil  type  I 
complies  with  BP.  Opadry  II  OY-L-34836  pink  is  specified  according  to  in-house  specifications. 
Ingredients  of  Opadry,  except  colorants,  also  comply  with  Ph.  Eur.  Colorants  meets  the  relevant 
requirements for colours for use in foodstuffs. Certificates of analysis are provided for all excipients. 
  Product Specification 
The medicinal product specifications for Clopidogrel Teva include tests for appearance, identification 
and  assay  (HPLC)  of  the  active  substance,  dissolution  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (mass 
variation), impurities (HPLC), microbial contamination (plate count method) and water content (Karl 
Fischer).  
The analytical methods are described in the Ph. Eur. or are developed in-house. The in-house methods 
have been satisfactorily described and validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines.  
Appropriate  data  have  been  presented  to  justify  the  release  specifications  for  each  quality 
characteristic that is controlled. Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and found to 
be  acceptable  from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the  proposed 
specification  and  confirm  consistency  &  uniformity  of  manufacture  and  indicate  that  the  process  is 
under control. 
  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been performed. All intended market containers are included in the study. The 
stability study conditions, numbers of batches tested and testing frequency are in accordance with the 
relevant ICH/CHMP guidelines. The stability studies include a study at 25 C/60 % RH, at study at 40 
C/75  %  RH  and  a  photostability  study.  The  analytical  methods  used  are  the  same  as  for  release 
testing and are all  stability indicating. In the stability protocol all stability indicating quality aspects 
are included: appearance, dissolution, assay, impurities, water and microbiological purity. In all cases 
© EMEA 2009  
 7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  stability  results  presented  were  satisfactory  and  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  for  the 
commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Clopidogrel  Teva  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  is  adequately  established.  In  general, 
satisfactory  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  the  marketing 
authorisation. There are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well known and is described in a USP monograph. The quality of the active 
substance is regarded to be suitable for the intended use and appropriately controlled by the applicant. 
The excipients comply with Ph. Eur., BP or adequate in-house specifications. 
The  packaging  material  is  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the 
finished  product  has  been  adequately  described  and  controlled  with  appropriate  in  process  controls. 
Stability tests indicate that the medicinal product is chemically stable during the proposed shelf life. 
In  comparison  with  the  EU  reference  product,  Clopidogrel  Teva  contains  the  same  qualitative  and 
quantitative composition in terms of the active substance, however some excipients are different. Both 
the EU reference product and Clopidogrel Teva exhibit similar dissolution profiles.  
In  conclusion,  information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and 
medicinal  product  have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out 
indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these 
in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in 
the clinic. 
At the time of the Opinion no quality issues remained unresolved. 
2.3 
Non-Clinical aspects   
Clopidogrel  is  a  widely  used  well-known  substance.  Its  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological  properties  are  well  characterised  and  new  non-clinical  studies  were  not  provided.  This 
generic application contains the same salt of the active substance as the reference medicinal product. 
A  summary  of  the  literature  with  regard  to  non-clinical  data  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  was 
provided. Further studies are not required, because the active substance used in the reference product 
and the generic product are the same, and the excipients used in the formulation are conventional, well 
known  and  broadly  used  in  other  medicinal  products.  An  overview  based  on  the  literature  is  thus 
appropriate. 
Introduction of the medicinal product onto the market is unlikely to result in any significant increase 
in the combined sales volumes for all clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate products, and would thus not be 
expected to have an adverse effect upon the environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP 
Guideline  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products 
for  Human  Use 
(CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
© EMEA 2009  
 8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4 
Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of two bioequivalence studies and 
one pharmacokinetic study. 
 GCP 
The clinical studies were performed by a CRO in Canada. It was stated that the clinical studies were 
carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP)  requirements.  No  GCP 
inspection has been requested. 
Clinical studies 
Two bioequivalence studies comparing Clopidogrel Teva 75 mg film-coated tablets with the originator 
Plavix  75  mg  film-coated  tablets,  were  conducted.  Both  studies  were  performed  in  fasting  subjects, 
one  involved  measuring  the  parent  drug  and  another  involved  measuring  the  major  (inactive) 
metabolite, clopidogrel carboxylic acid. In addition, one pharmacokinetic study of Plavix 75 mg film-
coated  tablets  was  conducted  in  order  to  estimate  the  intra-subject  variability  of  selected 
pharmacokinetic parameters under fasting conditions.  
Pharmacokinetics  
 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study code: X-1362 
A  single-dose,  comparative  bioavailability  study  of  two  formulations  of  clopidogrel  bisulfate  75  mg 
tablets under fasting conditions  
The  objective  of  this  study  is  to  evaluate  the  comparative  bioavailability  between  Clopidogrel 
Bisulfate  75  mg  Tablets  (Teva  Pharmaceutical  Industries  Ltd.)  and  Plavix  75  mg  tablets  (Sanofi-
Synthelabo  Ltd.,  UK)  after  a  single  dose  in  healthy  subjects  under  fasting  conditions.  This  was  an 
open-label,  single-dose,  randomized,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-treatment,  crossover  study 
performed  on  around  100  healthy  males  and  females  volunteers  using  a  75  mg  single  dose. 
Concentrations  of  clopidogrel  were  measured  from  the  plasma  samples  collected  over  a  36-hour 
interval  after  dosing  in  each  period.  The  study  protocol  and  Informed  Consent  Form  (ICF)  were 
approved  by  the  Ethics  Review  Board  and  approved  on  in  March  2007.  The  clinical  study  was 
initiated on 14 March 2007 and completed on 22 March 2007. 
Study code: X-1676  
A single-dose, comparative biovailability study of two formulations of clopidogrel 75 mg tablets under 
fasting conditions  
The objective of this study is to evaluate the comparative bioavailability between clopidogrel bisulfate 
tablets (75 mg clopidogrel) (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.) and Plavix 75 mg film coated tablets 
(Sanofi-Synthelabo  Ltd.,  UK)  after  a  single-dose  in  healthy  subjects  under  fasting  conditions.  This 
was  an  open-label,  single-dose,  randomized,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-treatment,  crossover 
study,  designed  to  evaluate  the  comparative  bioavailability  of  two  formulations  of  clopidogrel 
administered  to  24  healthy  male  and  female  subjects  under  fasting  conditions.  Concentrations  of 
clopidogrel carboxylic acid were measured from samples collected over a 36-hour interval after dosing 
in each period. The study protocol and ICF was submitted to the Ethics Review Board and approved 
on 24 January 2008. The clinical study was initiated on 29 January 2008 and completed on 6 February 
2008. 
© EMEA 2009  
 9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study code: X-1706  
A single-dose, pharmacokinetic study of Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets under fasting conditions 
The  objective  of  this  study  is  to  estimate  the  intra-subject  variability  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters  AUCt,  AUCinf  and  Cmax  of  Plavix  75  mg  Tablets  (Sanofi  Pharma  Bristol-Myers  Squibb 
SNC, France) after a single-dose in healthy subjects under fasting conditions. This was an open-label, 
single-dose,  two-period,  single-treatment  cross-over  study,  performed  on  18  healthy  males  and 
females volunteers using a 75 mg single dose under fasting conditions. Concentrations of clopidogrel 
were  measured  from  the  samples  collected  over  a  16-hour  interval  after  dosing  in  each  period.  The 
study protocol and ICF were submitted to the Ethics Review Board and approved on 13 March 2008. 
The clinical study was initiated on 20 March 2008 and completed on 28 March 2008. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Study code: X-1362 
Clopidogrel Bisulfate 75 mg Tablets; Batch No.: K-37665; Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  
Plavix 75 mg Tablets; Lot No.: BF221; Sanofi-Synthelabo Ltd., UK 
Study code: X-1676 
Clopidogrel  Bisulfate  Tablets  (75  mg  Clopidogrel);  Batch  No.:  K-37665;  Teva  Pharmaceutical 
Industries Ltd. 
Plavix 75 mg FC Tablets; Batch No.: CC314; Sanofi-Synthelabo Ltd., UK 
Study code: X-1706  
Plavix 75 mg Tablets; Lot No.: CE315; Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC, France 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
Study code: X-1362 
The study population included non-smoking, male and female volunteers between 18-55 years of age 
with a BMI between 19 and 30 kg/m2, who were judged to be healthy based on a medical examination. 
Ninty-seven  (97)  subjects  completed  the  study  and  are  included  in  the  analysis.  Drop-outs  handling 
was performed according to the protocol requirements. The protocol deviations were not considered to 
have impact on the efficacy and safety evaluation. 
Study code: X-1676 
The study population included non-smoking, male and female volunteers between 18-55 years of age 
with a BMI between 19 and 30 kg/m2, who were judged to be healthy based on a medical examination. 
Twenty-three (23) subjects completed the study and are included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis.  Drop-outs  handling  was  performed  according  to  the  protocol  requirements.  The  protocol 
deviations were not considered to have an impact on the efficacy and safety evaluation. 
Study code: X-1706  
The study population includes non-smoking, male and female volunteers between 18-55 years of age 
(inclusive)  with  a  BMI  between  19  and  30  (inclusive),  who  were  judged  to  be  healthy  based  on  a 
medical  history,  ECG,  laboratory  evaluation  and  physical  examination.  Sixteen  (16)  subjects  were 
dosed, completed the study and are included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Drop-outs 
handling  was  performed  according  to  the  protocol  requirements.  The  protocol  deviations  were  not 
considered to have an impact on the efficacy and safety evaluation. 
The selected population in all three clinical trials is in accordance with the NƒG on Investigation of 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  Subjects  participating  in  the  studies 
were of different races and met the inclusion criteria and did not fulfil the exclusion criteria described 
in the study protocol.  
© EMEA 2009  
 10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The plasma samples were  assayed for clopidogrel  and its metabolite using LC/MS/MS method. The 
analytical method was validated by a CRO in Canada.  
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The main investigated pharmacokinetics parameters were AUCt, AUCinf and Cmax. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  performed  on  the  ln-transformed  C max,  AUC0-t,  AUCinf  and  to 
untransformed Kel and Thalf parameters. The significance of the sequence, period and treatment effects 
and  the  subject  within  sequence  random  effects  were  tested.  Values  for  the  T max  parameter  were 
analyzed by a non-parametric approach.  
 
Results 
Study code: X-1362 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  clopidogrel  (non-transformed  values;  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD,  tmax 
median), N = 97, are presented in the table below. 
Tmax 
h 
0.74 (45) 
T1/2 
h 
5.90 (73) 
0.85 (116) 
6.30 (72) 
Treatment 
Test 
Reference 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
13835 
2.1649 (122) 
1.4199 
2.3520 (127) 
97.44 
88.72-107.02 
41 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
1.5869 
2.4083 (117) 
1.6390 
2.7134 (120) 
96.82 
87.18-107.52 
40 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
0.9091 
1.5739 (143) 
0.9351 
1.6516 (136) 
97.22 
87.43-108.10 
47 
Intra-subject 
CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration  
Tmax  
half-life  
T1/2  
*ln-transformed values  
The following acceptance criteria were set as per clinical study report:  
- 
- 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameters AUC0-t and AUCinf should be within 80-
125%. 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameter Cmax should be within 75-133%. 
The AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Cmax were considered as primary parameters for bioequivalence conclusion 
with the proposed acceptance range of 80-125% for the AUC and 75-133% for the Cmax defined in 
the study protocol. The 90% confidence intervals for AUCt and AUCinf proposed for study X-1695 
are  in  line  with  the  recommendation  of  the  CHMP  guideline  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1  and 
the observed results of the clinical study fulfil this requirement. However, widening of the limits for 
bioequivalence  conclusions  for  Cmax  values  was  not  acceptable  according  to  the  current  CHMP 
recommendations. Nevertheless, since the Cmax results of the study are within the standard 80-125% 
limits 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98,  the  proposal  for  widening  the  confidence  intervals  for  Cmax  is  not  of 
the  NƒG  on 
required  by 
© EMEA 2009  
 11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
importance.  Differences  in  tmax  between  test  and  reference  products  were  not  considered  to  be 
clinical relevant.  
No  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  occurred  in  study  X-1362.  There  were  130  adverse  events  (AEs) 
involving 46 subjects in the study. The most commonly reported AEs associated with clopidogrel were 
blood  GGT,  AST,  ALT  increased,  loose  stool,  light-headedness,  abdominal  pain,  elevated  urea  in 
blood,  increased  creatinine,  headache  and  other.  The  AEs  were  believed  not  to  have  a  significant 
impact  on  the  safety  of  the  subjects  or  on  the  integrity  of  the  study  results.  Tolerability  of  the  test 
product was found to be acceptable. 
Three  subjects  withdrew;  two  subjects  withdrew  due  to  personal  reasons  and  one  subject  was 
dismissed from the study after period 2 dosing due to missed blood draws. There were post-dose blood 
sampling deviations and one subject refused to provide blood samples for post-study haematology and 
serum chemistry tests. The protocol deviations were not considered to have an impact on the efficacy 
and safety. 
Study code: X-1676 
Pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel carboxylic acid (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean 
± SD, tmax median), N=23, are presented in the table below. 
Tmax 
h 
0.68 (30) 
T1/2 
h 
9.02 (38) 
0.73 (15) 
9.09 (23) 
Treatment 
Test 
Reference 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
9492.2 
9786.1 (24) 
9745.2 
10034.4 (25) 
97.40 
95.30 - 99.55 
4 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
9850.0 
10142.8 (24) 
10081.9 
10381.5 (25) 
97.70 
95.14 - 100.33
5 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
3453.0 
3597.8 (28) 
3589.3 
3780.0 (28) 
96.20 
88.11 – 105.04 
17 
Intra-subject 
CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration  
Tmax  
half-life  
T1/2  
Kel            elimination rate constant 
*ln-transformed values  
The 90% confidence interval values for the ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters of Cmax, AUCt 
and AUCinf are within the acceptance range of 80-125% as defined in the study protocol. Low intra-
subject  variability  for  all  pharmacokinetics  parameters  has  been  shown.  No  pre-dose  levels  of 
clopidogrel carboxylic acid are observed before period 2 drug administration and no subject reached 
Cmax at the first sample time, indicating that the sampling period is adequate. Tmax is not significantly 
different between test and reference products. Calculated intra-subject variability was reasonably low 
for clopidogrel carboxylic acid.   
No  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  occurred  during  the  study.    There  were  24  adverse  events  (AEs) 
involving  12 subjects  in  the  study.  Amongst  the  adverse  events  reported  in  relation  to  the  drug  was 
dizziness,  somnolence  or  increased  levels  of  creatinine.  The  AEs  were  believed  not  to  have  a 
significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the integrity of the study results.  
One subject was dismissed from the trial prior to check-in for period 2 due to an adverse event rectal 
bleeding.  There  were  some  post-dose  blood  sampling  deviations  greater  than  or  equal  to  1  minute 
deviations from the  scheduled sampling time. These were accounted for during the pharmacokinetic 
analysis.  No  other  protocol  deviations  were  noted  in  this  study  and  those  that  occurred  were  not 
considered to have impact on the efficacy and safety evaluation. 
© EMEA 2009  
 12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study code: X-1706  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel (non-transformed values; geometric means, arithmetic 
means (CV%), tmax median), N=16 
Parameters 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
Tmax 
h 
T1/2 
h 
Period 1 
Period 2 
0.9429 
1.9818 (168) 
1.0809 
2.4966 (154) 
0.5527 
1.4782 (188) 
0.71 (22) 
4.76 (61) 
0.9397 
1.8782 (138) 
1.2825 
2.5981 (117) 
0.6710 
1.4349 (150) 
0.79 (60) 
4.77 (61) 
40 
82.36 
67.32-100.77
100.33 
78.99-127.45 
84.28 
63.80-111.33 
*Ratio of 
Geometric 
Means (%) 
90% CI 
Intra-subject 
CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration  
Tmax  
half-life  
T1/2  
Kel           elimination rate constant 
*ln-transformed values  
33 
33 
Pharmacokinetic study X-1706 was conducted to establish whether Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets is 
a medicinal product with a high pharmacokinetic intra-individual variability. Based on the results of 
this single study, Plavix showed an intra-subject variability of >30%. However, the CHMP considered 
that  although  these  data  could  indicate  high  within-subject  variability,  it  has  not  been  definitely 
established that clopidogrel is a “highly variable” drug and the results do not justify such assumption. 
It  is  also  unlikely  that  the  power  of  study  X-1706  could  be  considered  acceptable  to  justify  this 
conclusion, since only a limited number of subjects participated in this trial.  
No  SAEs  occurred  during  the  study  X-1706.  The  AEs  related  to  the  drug  such  as  headache,  vomit, 
nausea, dizziness, abdominal pain, fatigue and blurred vision, were reported. None of the AEs had a 
significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the integrity of the study results. 
Two  subjects  were  withdrawn  due  to  adverse  events  (headache,  nausea,  emesis,  sore  throat,  cough, 
dizziness and feeling hot). There were some post-dose blood sampling deviations greater than or equal 
to  1  minute  and  deviations  from  the  scheduled  sampling  time.  The  handling  of  drop  outs  was 
performed  according  to  the  protocol  requirements.  Protocol  deviations  were  not  considered  to  have 
impact on the efficacy and safety evaluation. 
  Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Clopidogrel Teva is considered bioequivalent with 
Plavix. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data were provided.  
© EMEA 2009  
 13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system, version 5 of 29 May 2008, as described by 
the applicant fulfils the legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place 
and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
  Risk Management Plan 
No  description  of  Risk  Management  plan  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant.  Since  the  application 
concerns  a  generic  with  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
additional risk management activities have been identified, this approach is considered acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Three  clinical  bioequivalence  trials  were  provided  for  Clopidogrel  Teva  (clopidogrel  hydrogen 
sulphate).  At  the  time  of  approval  of  the  reference  product  Plavix  (clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate), 
there was no reliable and validated methodology for the determination of the pharmacokinetics of the 
parent  prodrug  clopidogrel,  or  of  the  active  metabolite  clopidogrel  thiol.  Thus,  the  pharmacokinetic 
profile  was  established  based  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid,  which  is  the 
major non-active metabolite.  In the meantime, a reliable bio-analytical method for determination of 
clopidogrel in plasma and urine has been developed. Since the pharmacokinetic profile of the active 
metabolite is still not well established, the CHMP accepted the proof of bioequivalence based on the 
clopidogrel  parent  compound  data.  Thus,  study  X-1676,  which  determines  the  bioequivalence  based 
on  the  data  for  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid,  is  considered  supportive,  whereas  study  X-1362  is 
important for the confirmation of bioequivalence. 
The recently published literature indicates that the bioavailability of a single oral dose of clopidogrel 
and  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  clopidogrel,  especially  Cmax  and  AUCinf,  might  be  increased 
several  fold  in  the  fed  condition  compared  to  the  fasted  condition.  The  currently  presented  clinical 
studies were conducted in fasted state and thus, the CHMP requested a clarification of this approach. 
Adequate justification why bioequivalence for the generic product should be demonstrated only under 
fasting  condition  was  provided.  Bioequivalence  studies  in  fasting  conditions  are  normally 
recommended  as  mentioned  in  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  document  as  this  situation  would  be  more  sensitive  to 
differences  in  pharmacokinetics.  In  addition  the  dissolution  studies  using  clopidogrel  hydrogen 
sulphate conducted at three different pH values (1.2, 4.5 and 6.8) and mimicking the conditions of a 
fed state did not show any major differences between the originator and the generic product. 
The  bio-analytical  technique  and  methodology  applied  in  the  analysis  of  the  samples  during  the 
bioequivalence  studies  included  validation  with  the  analysis  of  calibration  curves  and  controls  at 
various concentrations. The CHMP questioned whether there is a potential for back-conversion of the 
quantitatively  major  metabolite  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  the  parent  drug.  Considering  that  the 
plasma levels of clopidogrel carboxylic acid are considerably higher than those of the parent drug, a 
minimum  back-conversion  of  the  metabolite  would  lead  to  a  huge  over-estimation  of  clopidogrel 
plasma levels and would bias the outcome of the bioequivalence study. Demonstration of the lack of 
back-conversion of clopidogrel carboxylic acid metabolite to the parent drug under all conditions for 
sample handling and storage was requested by the CHMP. To resolve any doubts and to confirm that 
there is no back-conversion of the quantitatively major metabolite clopidogrel carboxylic acid to the 
parent-drug  clopidogrel  in  the  presence  of  methanol  during  procedures  in  the  bioequivalence  study, 
additional experimental data were obtained from multiple samples prepared by spiking blank human 
© EMEA 2009  
 14/15 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
plasma  with  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid.  Presence  of  clopidogrel  in  the  analysed  samples  was  not 
observed  and  these  results  show  that  there  is  no  potential  for  the  occurrence  of  back-conversion  of 
clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  clopidogrel  during  the  bio-analysis  in  study  X-1362.  The  CHMP 
considered this issue resolved. 
The  bioequivalence  study  X-1362  and  its  statistical  evaluation  were  in  accordance  with  accepted 
standards  for  bioequivalence  testing,  as  stated  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish 
bioavailability included the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximal plasma 
concentration  of  the  parent  compound  of  clopidogrel.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  these 
parameters were within the recommended 80%-125% range for clopidogrel, as required by the above 
mentioned guideline.  
Study X-1706 aimed to demonstrate the proposed high variability of Plavix, however, the CHMP did 
not consider this stand alone clinical trial sufficient to establish Plavix as a drug with a highly variable 
pharmacokinetics  due  to  its  inadequate  design  and  limited  number  of  participants.  Therefore,  the 
proposed widening of the 90% confidence interval for clopidogrel Cmax to 75%-133% on the basis that 
clopidogrel  belongs  to  a  group  of  drugs  with  high  variability  was  found  to  be  unacceptable  by  the 
CHMP.  Nevertheless,  since  the  confidence  intervals  for  Cmax  values  of  clopidogrel  were  within  the 
required 80%-125% range, the need for widening of the intervals was not applicable. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Clopidogrel Teva 75 mg film-coated tables in the treatment of: 
''Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
• Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy.'' 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
© EMEA 2009  
 15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
