EMA/628773/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004996 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan (clopidogrel / 
acetylsalicylic acid) 
An overview of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan and why it is authorised 
in the EU 
What is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan and what is it used for? 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is a medicine used to prevent problems caused by blood clots and 
hardening of the arteries, such as a heart attack, in adults who are already taking both clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid as separate tablets. It can be used in the following groups of patients who have a 
condition known as ‘acute coronary syndrome’: 
•
•
patients who have unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) or who have had a heart attack
with no ‘ST-segment elevation’ (an abnormal reading on an electrocardiogram), including those
who are having a stent (a short tube) inserted into an artery to prevent it from closing up;
patients being treated for heart attack with ST-segment elevation, when the doctor thinks that
they would benefit from thrombolytic treatment (treatment to dissolve blood clots).
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan contains two active substances, clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic 
acid (also known as aspirin) and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic 
acid Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the EU called DuoPlavin. For more information on generic medicines, see the 
question-and-answer document here. 
How is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan used? 
The medicine is available as tablets containing 75 mg clopidogrel, either with 75 mg or 100 mg 
acetylsalicylic acid and can only be obtained with a prescription. The medicine is taken as one tablet 
once a day instead of the clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets that the patient has already been 
taking separately. 
For more information about using Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
How does Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan work? 
Both active substances in the medicine, clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid, are antiplatelet medicines. 
This means that they help to prevent components in the blood called platelets from sticking together 
and forming clots, thus helping to prevent another heart attack.  
Clopidogrel blocks a substance called ADP from attaching to a receptor (target) on the surface of 
platelets. This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming. 
Acetylsalicylic acid blocks an enzyme called prostaglandin cyclo-oxygenase. This reduces the 
production of a substance called thromboxane, which normally helps clots to form by attaching 
platelets together. The combination of the two active substances reduces the risk of blood clots 
forming more than either medicine alone. 
Both active substances have been available in the EU for a number of years. Clopidogrel has been 
authorised since 1998 as an antiplatelet medicine, and is often used in combination with acetylsalicylic 
acid. Acetylsalicylic acid has been available for over 100 years. 
How has Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, DuoPlavin, and do not need to be repeated for 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Mylan. The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference 
medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance 
in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan? 
Because Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to DuoPlavin. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for DuoPlavin, the benefits of 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan have been included in the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan are continuously 
monitored. Side effects reported with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan are carefully evaluated and 
any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan (clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid)  
EMA/628773/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 
January 2020. 
Further information on Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/clopidogrel-acetylsalicylic-acid-mylan. Information on the 
reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan (clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid)  
EMA/628773/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
