European Medicines Agency  
Clopidogrel Teva 
clopidogrel 
EPAR summary for the public 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/356088/2009 
EMEA/H/C/1053 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis for the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also 
part of the EPAR). 
What is Clopidogrel Teva? 
Clopidogrel Teva is a medicine that contains the active substance clopidogrel. It is available as pink 
tablets (75 mg). 
Clopidogrel Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Clopidogrel Teva is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Plavix. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Clopidogrel Teva used for? 
Clopidogrel Teva is used in adults to prevent atherothrombotic events (problems caused by blood clots 
and hardening of the arteries). Clopidogrel Teva can be given to the following groups of patients: 
  patients who have recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Clopidogrel Teva can be 
started between a few days and 35 days after the attack; 
  patients who have had a recent ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by failure of the blood supply to 
part of the brain). Clopidogrel Teva can be started between seven days and six months after the 
stroke; 
  patients with peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries); 
  patients who have a condition known as ‘acute coronary syndrome’, when it should be given with 
aspirin (another medicine that prevents blood clots), including patients who have had a stent 
inserted (a short tube placed in an artery to prevent it closing up). Clopidogrel Teva can be used in 
patients who are having myocardial infarction with ‘ST segment elevation’ (an abnormal reading 
on the ECG or electrocardiogram) when the doctor thinks that they would benefit from the 
treatment. It can also be used in patients who do not have this abnormal reading on the ECG, if 
they have unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) or ‘non-Q-wave’ myocardial infarction. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Clopidogrel Teva used? 
The standard dose of Clopidogrel Teva is one 75 mg tablet once a day, taken with or without food. In 
acute coronary syndrome, Clopidogrel Teva is used together with aspirin and treatment generally 
starts with a loading dose of four 75 mg tablets. This is then followed by the standard 75 mg dose once 
a day for at least four weeks (in ST segment elevation myocardial infarction) or for up to 12 months 
(in non-ST segment elevation syndrome). 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Clopidogrel Teva work? 
The active substance in Clopidogrel Teva, clopidogrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This 
means that it helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special 
cells in the blood called platelets aggregating (sticking together). Clopidogrel stops the platelets 
aggregating by blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a special receptor on their surface. 
This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to 
prevent another heart attack or stroke. 
How has Clopidogrel Teva been studied? 
Because Clopidogrel Teva is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Plavix. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Clopidogrel Teva? 
Because Clopidogrel Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has Clopidogrel Teva been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance with 
EU requirements, Clopidogrel Teva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Plavix. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Plavix, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Clopidogrel Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Clopidogrel Teva: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Clopidogrel 
Teva to Teva Pharma B.V. on 28 July 2009. 
The full EPAR for Clopidogrel Teva can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
