EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Clopidogrel HCS 
International nonproprietary name: clopidogrel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2255 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Page 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.3. Medicinal Product ............................................................................................ 7 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 8 
2.3. Non-Clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 9 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 10 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 17 
2.6. Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment ................................................... 19 
2.7. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 19 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier  
The applicant HCS bvba  submitted on  6 May 2010 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Clopidogrel HCS, in accordance with the centralised procedure 
falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a 
Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and at 
least a bioequivalent study with the reference medicinal product Plavix, 75 mg, Film-coated Tablets 
instead of non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
•  Date of authorisation: 15-07-1998   
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006ª, EU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
•  Date of authorisation: 15-07-1998   
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006ª, EU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Pieter Neels 
• 
• 
The application was received by the Agency on 6 May 2010 
The  procedure  started  on  26  May  2010.  This  application  is  a  multiple  of  the  Clopidogrel  Teva 
Pharma procedure, which received a positive opinion during the CHMP meeting in June 2009, and 
therefore followed a 60-day timetable. 
• 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 2 July 2010. 
•  During the meeting on 19-22 July 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Clopidogrel HCS on 22 July 2010. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking 
on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 20 July 2010. 
• 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 28 October 2010. 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.   Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Clopidogrel  HCS  75 mg  film  coated  tablets  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  clopidogrel  as 
clopidogrel hydrochloride as active substance. 
The  reference  medicinal  product  is  Plavix  75  mg  film-coated  tablets,  which  contain  clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate.  
Clopidogrel  is  a  non-competitive  inhibitor  of  adenosine  diphosphate  (ADP)  at  the  platelet  receptors. 
The effect of ADP on platelets is mediated by two G-protein coupled P2Y receptors (P2Y1 and P2Y12) 
and  the  cation  channel-coupled  P2X1  receptor.  The  adenylate  cyclase-coupled  ADP  receptor  P2Y12  is 
the main target of clopidogrel and lead to inhibition of platelet activation, aggregation, and Gp IIb/IIIa 
receptor  activation.  Clopidogrel  is  a  thienopyridine  and  only  the  S-enantiomer  is  pharmacologically 
active. 
The safety and efficacy profile of clopidogrel has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
which can be found in the EPAR for Plavix. In addition, there is a long-term post-marketing experience 
contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Clopidogrel HCS 75mg film-coated 
tablet contains clopidogrel hydrochloride. Since this application is a generic application referring to the 
reference medicinal product Plavix, summary of the clinical data of the reference medicinal product is 
available and no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and efficacy and 
safety have been conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride.  
The therapeutic indication of Clopidogrel HCS is:  
Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
• Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically treated 
patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The product is presented as film coated tablets containing 75 mg of clopidogrel (as hydrochloride) as 
active substance. Other ingredients are: 
Tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  crospovidone,  macrogol  6000, 
hydrogenated castor oil 
Film coating: Hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), titanium dioxide (E171), red iron oxide (E172), talc and 
propylene glycol 
The film coated tablets are packed in blisters of OPA/Al/PVC-Al. 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Clopidogrel hydrochloride is a white to off-white or yellowish crystalline powder practically insoluble in 
water  at  neutral  pH  but  freely  soluble  at  pH  =  1.  It  is  also  freely  dissolves  in  methanol.  Clopidogrel 
hydrochloride  has  the  chemical  name  (+)-(S)-Methyl  α-(o-chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c] 
pyridine-5(4H)-acetate  hydrochloride.  It  does  not  show  polymorphism.  The  active  substance  has  one 
chiral  centre  therefore  it  exhibits  chirality  –  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  is  synthesized  as  the  S-
enantiomer. 
Manufacture 
Clopidogrel hydrochloride is synthesised by three alternative routes from four key starting materials. 
The manufacturing process consists of three stages: the synthesis of clopidogrel free base (stage 1), 
purification of clopidogrel (stage 2) and crystallisation of clopidogrel hydrochloride (stage 3). The 
active substance is manufactured in two manufacturing sites.  
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of the active substance. The 
specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility (Ph. Eur), identification (IR, 
chlorides), loss of drying (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), sulphated ash (Ph. 
Eur), related substances (UPLC, HPLC), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), assay (HPLC), particle size (laser 
diffraction).   
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
used in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are in accordance with the 
ICH Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch analysis results confirm consistency and uniformity. 
Stability 
The  stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  on  three  batches  of  active  substance  manufactured 
according to all alternative methods by all manufacturers at long-term conditions (25°C/60 % RH) and 
at accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) packed into drums containing the primary translucent LDPE 
bag  and  the  secondary  laminated  bag  made  of  PET/Al/PE  foil.  Photostability  studies  have  also  been 
carried out. The stability samples have been stored in a mini-size simulation of the original packing.  
Parameters  tested  during  stabilities  studies  are  appearance,  loss  on  drying,  related  substance, 
enantiomeric purity, assay and identification.  
Clopidogrel hydrochloride is sensitive to basic hydrolysis, oxidation and to acid hydrolysis at elevated 
temperature. Practically no degradation occurs when clopidogrel hydrochloride is placed at solid state 
under elevated temperature. 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed re-test period is justified based on the stability results when the active substance is 
stored in the original packing material. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMEA. 
2.2.3.  Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  product  has  been  developed  with  the  objective  of  developing  a  conventional  release  film-coated 
tablet  bioequivalent  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix.  It  represents  an  alternative  to  the 
reference medicinal product since it contains the same active substance (clopidogrel base) different in 
the salt (hydrochloride instead of bisulphate) with the same dosage strength and dosage form. 
Solubility,  particle  size  and  stability  of  the  active  substance  were  taken  into  consideration  during 
development.  A  number  of  studies  were  also  carried  out  to  define  the  compatibility  of  the  active 
substance  with  the  pharmaceutical  excipients  used.  A  thermoplastic  based  granulation  has  been 
selected as manufacturing process especially in view of safety and environmental issues and it provides 
satisfactory reproducibility and scale-up.  
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose  (diluent),  colloidal 
anhydrous silica (glidant), crospovidone (disintegrant) , macrogol 6000 (binder), hydrogenated castor 
oil  (lubricant).  Film  coating:  Hydroxypropylcellulose  (film  coating  agent),  titanium  dioxide  (E171) 
(opacifer),  red  iron  oxide  (E172),  talc  (antiadhesion  agent)  and  propylene  glycol  (platicizer).  All 
excipients  used  are  in  compliance  with  the  Ph  Eur.  with  the  exception  of  the  colouring  agent.  The 
methods used for the control of red iron oxide are described. None of the excipients are of human or 
animal origin. 
The film coated tablets are packed in blisters consisting in OPA/Al/PVC film and heat sealing aluminium 
foil.  Supplier  statement  is  provided  confirming  that  the  PVC  film  complies  with  the  PhEur  and  the 
aluminium film conforms to the EU Directives. 
Adventitious agents 
Not applicable 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process includes a non-standard thermoplastic granulation. Main steps are mixing, 
granulation with polymer, sieving, mixing with additives into compression mixture, tabletting and film 
coating. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing  process  on  commercial  batch  size  and  on  both  manufacturing  sites  claimed.  The 
applicant  commits  to  validate  the  bigger  batch  size  claimed.  As  the  batch  size  increase  do  not  affect 
the  validation  of  the  non-standard  granulation  step  (increase  of  sub-batches  number)  this  was 
accepted. 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The batch analysis data show that the film coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Product Specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, uniformity of dosage (Ph 
Eur),  identification  of  clopidogrel  (HPLC,  TLC),  identification  of  titanium  dioxide,  identification  of  iron 
oxides, related substances, enantiomeric purity, dissolution, assay, microbiological purity (Ph Eur) and 
water content (Ph Eur).    
Degradation  products  are  controlled  and  their  limits  are  justified  by  reference  to  stability  studies  and 
toxicology studies. 
Degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The  tests  and  limits  for  the  finished  product  are  appropriate  to  control  the  quality  of  the  finished 
product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data submitted confirm satisfactory uniformity of the finished product at release. 
Stability of the Product 
Satisfactory batch data of the finished product packed in the intended container and closure system 
were included on stability studies under ICH conditions. The batches were tested for appearance, water 
(informative), hardness (informative), related substances, enantiomeric purity, dissolution of 
clopidogrel, assay and microbiological tests. They were exposed to 25º C/60% RH for 12 months and 
for 6 months at 40°C/75%RH. 
Photostability tests have been performed in accordance with ICH guideline Q 1 B. Results showed that 
the  tablets  became  slightly  pale  and  the  colour  was  not  homogeneous,  which  confirms  the 
requirements for the storage of the product in the original package. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-Clinical aspects 
Clopidogrel is a widely used and well-known substance. Its pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and 
toxicological properties are well characterised. This generic application contains a different salt 
(clopidogrel hydrochloride) of the active substance used in the reference product (clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate). A summary of the literature information on non-clinical data of clopidogrel and the 
results of two new non-clinical studies (acute and chronic toxicity) conducted with clopidogrel 
hydrochloride were provided. Furthermore, on the basis of the CHMP Guidance for users of the 
centralised procedure for generic application (EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), when different salts of the 
active substance of the reference medicinal product are used, additional information providing proof 
that their non-clinical safety and/or efficacy profile is not different from that of the reference medicinal 
product is needed. Thus, information that the different clopidogrel salt (clopidogrel hydrochloride) does 
not differ significantly in non-clinical properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference 
product were requested by the CHMP in accordance with the relevant guideline.  
The response referred to the results of the toxicity and genotoxicity studies to examine the safety 
profile of clopidogrel hydrochloride vs clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate. The repeated dose toxicity study 
reports were in accordance with GLP standards and regulatory guidelines (please see section 
Toxicology). The 13-week toxicity study report did not detect major differences in the same safety 
profile for the hydrochloride and hydrogen sulphate salt; liver was determined as the target organ in 
both salts. Regarding the genotoxicity testing, clopidogrel hydrochloride tested at a higher 
concentration level than clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate, turned to be not clastogenic in the 
chromosome aberration test. In the micronucleus test, at the same dose levels, neither the hydrogen 
sulphate salt nor the hydrochloride salt was found clastogenic/aneugenic. Thus, based on the data 
provided, similar safety profile was demonstrated for clopidogrel hydrochloride and clopidogrel 
hydrogen sulphate.  
Toxicology 
Two new non-clinical studies were conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride. 
Single-dose toxicity 
The acute toxicity study on rats was performed with clopidogrel hydrochloride. Results of single dose 
toxicity studies in rats revealed low toxicity of clopidogrel hydrochloride at doses 10, 100, 1000 mg/kg. 
No clinical signs of toxicity and mortality were reported in rats after the administration of drug. No 
significant differences in body weight gain were seen between the control and treated groups. At 
terminal necropsy, no apparent macroscopic changes attributed to clopidogrel hydrochloride 
administration were observed in any animal. The majority of tissue was macroscopically unremarkable. 
LD50 values were over 1500mg /kg for both sexes. 
After a single oral administration of clopidogrel in mice, rats and baboons, toxicity occurred only at 
very high doses and the target organs were mainly the gastrointestinal tract, the kidney and the lung. 
The oral LD50 values of clopidogrel were over 2 g/kg in all species.  
Repeated-dose toxicity 
The toxicity of clopidogrel hydrochloride was investigated in rats upon daily oral administration by 
gastric gavage for 13 consecutive weeks. The study was conducted with four groups of 10 males and 
10 females each versus one vehicle control group and 3 test groups receiving 12.5, 125 or 250 mg/kg 
body weight/day. Treatment with clopidogrel hydrochloride was generally well tolerated, based on the 
lack of treatment related clinical signs and the normal growth of the animals. Some treatment related 
changes in haematology, e.g. thrombocytes, and clinical chemistry, e.g. cholesterol, triglycerides, 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bilirubin, total protein, etc., were revealed. Decreased thymus weights, increased adrenal, kidney, 
seminal vesicles and liver weights and hypertrophy of centrilobular hepatocytes were also observed. 
The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for clopidogrel hydrochloride was considered 12.5 
mg/kg body weight/day. There appears to be no additional toxic effects of clopidogrel hydrochloride 
although no direct comparative data between the clopidogrel hydrochloride and clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate were provided. Furthermore, any potential differences in the non-clinical 
toxicokinetic profile would be apparent in the clinical pharmacokinetic profile addressed by the 
bioequivalence studies. 
Genotoxicity 
The in vitro Salmonella typhimurium reverse mutation assays of clopidogrel hydrochloride was 
performed and revealed evidence that clopidogrel did not induce effects at either the gene or 
chromosome levels. In Ames test of clopidogrel’s main metabolite S-carboxylic acid derivative was also 
negative. The eventual mutagenic activity of clopidogrel hydrochloride was investigated in the bacterial 
reverse mutation assay with Salmonella typhimurium strains TA97a, TA98, TA100, TA 1535 and 
TA102, without and with metabolic activation. The tested substance was considered non mutagenic. 
Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in micronucleus test in mice. Incidence of micronucleated polychromatic 
red blood cells (RBs) was not elevated in mice received clopidogrel at oral doses up to 2000 mg/kg 
daily, for three consecutive days. Ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic RBCs was also normal 
which indicates that there was no bone marrow cytotoxicity. There was no evidence of any clastogenic 
activity for clopidogrel. 
Although the in vitro studies did not reveal any mutagenic, genotoxic or clastogenic potential of 
clopidogrel, the CHMP raised a major objection with respect to the studies on impurities, which did do 
not follow recommendations of the OECD guideline, protocol 471 (OECD, 1997, Test Guideline 
47:Bacterial Reverse Mutation Test. In: OECD Guideline for Testing of Chemicals. Paris, Organization 
for Economic Cooperation & Development) and of the Question & Answers on the CHMP guideline on 
the limits of genotoxic impurities (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/431994/2007).  In response, adequately 
conducted reverse mutation assays in accordance with GLP standards and OECD guideline protocol 
number 471 was provided. The results of the Ames test performed with potassium ethyl sulphate and 
clopidogrel isopropyl sulphate indicated that these two substances do not hold a mutagenic potential. 
Thus, the content limit for monoalkylsulphates as proposed by the applicant is acceptable to the CHMP. 
Introduction of the product onto the market is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
combined sales volumes for all clopidorel hydrogensulphate products, and would thus not be expected 
to have an adverse effect upon the environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP Guideline 
on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a 
formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Clopidogrel is an adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor antagonist that is indicated for the reduction of 
atherosclerotic events in acute coronary syndrome (including myocardial infarction), ischaemic stroke 
and vascular death in patients with atherosclerosis manifested by recent stroke, acute coronary 
syndrome or estabmished peripheral vascular disease.  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This generic product contains a different salt of clopidogrel (clopidogrel hydrochloride) in comparison 
with the reference medicinal product. Thus, the CHMP raised a major concern, since on the basis of the 
CHMP Guidance for users of the centralised procedure for generic application 
(EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), when different salts of the active substance of the reference medicinal 
product are used, additional information providing proof that their safety and/or efficacy profile is not 
different from that of the reference medicinal product is needed. 
The applicant justified that the safety and/or efficacy profile of Clopidogrel HCS 75 mg is not different 
from the one of the reference medicinal product Plavix. 
According to the applicant, although this product contains a different salt from the innovator, it has 
been shown pre-clinically that there is no change in the safety profile of the final product, compared 
with the innovator, that may potentially arise from the use of a different salt (with the same 
therapeutic moiety). Different salt of clopidogrel could result in only one difference in LADME processes 
which determine substance PK profile, i.e. liberation or dissolution of drug substance from the dosage 
form. All other LADME processes, i.e. absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination, are limited 
to the free drug entity - clopidogrel base. Both clopidogrel hydrogensulphate and hydrochloride salts 
express well comparative solubility and permeability and thereby absorption potential of both salts is 
the same. 
Dissolution of clopidogrel salt readily takes place in the acidic environment of the stomach. The 
dissolved drug is present as protonated-clopidogrel base as evident from data provided. When reaching 
the site of absorption in less acidic environment of intestine, the same moiety, i.e. clopidogrel base, is 
available from both salts. 
Both salts are also proven to be bioequivalent under fast and fed conditions in studies , i.e. they show 
comparable in vivo dissolution, absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination of clopidogrel. 
Since there is proven to be no difference in pharmacokinetic processes and profiles of test and 
reference products as far as clopidogrel is concerned, consequently also efficacy profiles can be 
claimed to be the same. 
As far as safety is concerned, hydrochlorides and chlorides have been by far the most frequent choice 
for salts of basic drugs because of physiological tolerability. Indeed, it has been shown in preclinical 
testing that there is no change in the safety profile of the hydrochloride salt compared with the 
hydrogensulphate, as the same therapeutic moiety was actually compared. Again, comparable 
clopidogrel plasma levels were determined for both hydrochloride and hydrogensulphate products in 
bioequivalence study, therefore comparable safety profiles are legitimately expected. 
Clinical studies 
In support of the dossier, two bioequivalence studies have been submitted: 
- Study n°AA44472/07-197: a comparative, randomised, single-Dose, 2-way crossover bioavailability 
study of Clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets (Test) and Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets (Reference) 
in healthy adult male volunteers under fasting conditions.  
- Study n°80430/08-241: a randomised, open-label, 2-way crossover bioequivalence study of 
clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets and Plavix (reference) following a 75 mg dose in healthy subjects 
under fed conditions following a normocaloric meal.  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The bioequivalence studies provided in support of the application were performed by CROs in Canada. 
A statement was provided that the clinical part of these studies was conducted according to the ICH 
Note for Guidance on Good Clinical Practices.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Study 07-197 
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study code: 07-197 
Comparative, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover bioavailability study of clopidogrel 75 mg film-
coated tablets (test) and Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets (reference) in healthy adult male volunteers 
under fasting conditions. 
The objective of this study was to assess the single-dose relative bioavailability of clopidogrel 75 mg 
film-coated tablets and Plavix 75 mg clopidogrel film-coated tablets (Sanofi-Synthelabo Limited), under 
fasting conditions. This was an open-label, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover, 2-sequence, 
comparative bioavailability study performed on volunteers A total of 92 subjects completed the clinical 
phase of the study. Single oral 75 mg clopidogrel doses were separated by a washout period of 14 
days. The protocol and informed consent forms (ICFs) were reviewed and approved by an Institutional 
Review Board (IRB) convening in October and November 2007. The study was conducted between 1 
December and 22 December 2007. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS 
Test product: Clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by KRKA, d.d. Novo Mesto, 
Slovenia, batch 1232 01 I068 1007. 
Reference product: Plavix 75 mg tablets manufactured by Sanofi-Synthelabo, United-Kingdom, batch 
600711. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED 
A total of 96 healthy, non-smoking, adult male volunteers aged 18-55 years and with BMI 18.00 –
28.00 kg/m2 were included in the study. These were medically healthy subjects with clinically normal 
laboratory profiles, vital signs and ECGs. Of the 96 subjects, 4 subjects were withdrawn or 
discontinued. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the analysis. Adequate inclusion and 
exclusion criteria were followed. The choice of the selected population in this clinical trial was 
considered appropriate.  
ANALYTICAL METHODS 
The plasma samples were assayed for clopidogrel and its carboxylic acid metabolite using LC/MS/MS 
method using the calibration range from 5.04 pg/mL – 5040 pg/mL (clopidogrel) and 4.02 ng/mL – 
4016 ng/mL (clopidogrel carboxylic acid). The analytical technique was initially validated at Anapharm 
Quebec laboratory, and transferred afterward to the Richmond Hill laboratory. A partial validation was 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
conducted successfully in order to allow this transfer. However, there were insufficient data submitted 
with respect to the pre-study validation and validation of the bio-analytical technique used for 
determination of clopidogrel, and the CHMP questioned the validity of the bioequivalence study. Thus, 
a GCP inspection was requested. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES 
The primary pharmacokinetic parameters defined in the protocol were AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and maximal 
plasma clopidogrel concentration Cmax. 
STATISTICAL METHODS 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was carried out on ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax for both 
analytes: clopidogrel and the main inactive metabolite. A non-parametric test was carried out to 
compare the Tmax values between treatments. The statistical model included sequence, period and 
treatment factors as fixed effects and subject within sequence as random effect. The statistical 
methods used were acceptable. 
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetic parameters for clopidogrel (AUC and Cmax: arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax:  median, 
range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
tmax 
h 
1 
(0.33-16) 
1 
(0.33-5) 
Treatment 
AUC0-∞ 
pg*h/ml 
2579.1 
(3891.4) 
1983.4 
(1649.5) 
[87; 109]% 
98 % 
43.5 % 
AUC0-t 
pg*h/ml 
2257.6 
Test 
(3482.8) 
(S.D.) 
1909.7 
Reference 
(1575.7) 
(S.D.) 
[90;110]% 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point estimate 
100 % 
Intra-subject CV (%)  43.3 % 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 
infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t 
hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
Cmax 
pg/ml 
1106.7 
(873.3) 
981.4 
(1001) 
[84;108]% 
95 % 
54.6 % 
time for maximum concentration : median, min and max  
*log-transformed values 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic parameters for clopidogrel carboxylic acid (AUC and Cmax: arithmetic mean ± SD, 
tmax: median, range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
Treatment 
tmax 
h 
0.685 
(0.5-3) 
0.775 
(1-5) 
AUC0-∞ 
ng*h/ml 
7105.8 
(1452.4) 
7229.6 
(1536.3) 
[97; 100]% 
98 % 
7.8 % 
AUC0-t 
ng*h/ml 
6632.4 
Test 
(1372.7) 
(S.D.) 
6674.7 
Reference 
(1435.9) 
(S.D.) 
[96;100]% 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point estimate 
98 % 
Intra-subject CV (%)  8.4 % 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 
infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t 
hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
Cmax 
ng/ml 
2545.7 
(873.3) 
2608.9 
(854.9) 
[91;104]% 
97 % 
26 % 
time for maximum concentration : mediane, min and max  
*log-transformed values 
The following acceptance criteria were set as per clinical study report:  
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the reference 
product for the ln-transformed parameters AUC0-t and AUCinf should be within 80-125%. 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the reference 
product for the ln-transformed parameter Cmax should be within 75-133%. 
The proposed 90% confidence intervals for AUCt and AUCinf are in line with the recommendation of 
the CHMP guideline CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 and the observed results of the clinical study fulfil 
this requirement. However, the widening of the limits for bioequivalence conclusions for Cmax values, 
although not in line with the current CHMP recommendations, was not considered necessary since the 
Cmax results of the study are within the standard 80-125% limits required by the NƒG on 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98. No significant difference 
in Tmax was evidenced by the non parametric test. 
No serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported during this study. Overall, clopidogrel demonstrated a 
good safety profile. The risk of bleeding is the most important adverse effect of clopidogrel, which 
might be even increased when clopidogrel is concomitantly used with ASA.  No significant changes in 
the subjects' state of health were observed and it is believed that Clopidogrel HCS 75 mg film coated 
tablet is safe when used according to the SmPC. 
From the 96 subjects included in the study, four were withdrawn for personal reasons or non-
compliance. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the data set for statistical analysis. All 
withdrawn and discontinued subjects are documented and validity is justified.  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study 07-197, Clopidogrel HCS is considered bioequivalent with 
Plavix. 
Study 80430 
To compare the bioavailability of clopidogrel from Clopidogrel HCS 75 mg tablets versus the originator 
product Plavix under fed conditions, a comparative bioavailability trial has been performed by a CRO in 
Canada between January and March 2009.  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
The study is a single center, randomized, single dose, open-label, 2-way, cross-over study under fed  
conditions following a normocaloric meal. The treatment phases were separated by a wash-out period 
of 7 days.  
Healthy male non-smokers aged between 18 and 55 years  were administered a single dose of either 
the test or reference study medication, as a 1 x 75 mg tablet following a normocaloric meal.  
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS  
Test product: Clopidogrel HCS 75 mg tablet manufactured by KRKA, d.d., Novo Mesto, Slovenia, batch 
n° 1232 01 I068 1007.    
Reference product: Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablet manufactured by Sanofi-Synthelabo Limited, UK, 
batch n°800393.  
ANALYTICAL METHODS 
A high performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of clopidogrel in human EDTA 
K2 plasma was used. The method was validated by the bioanalytical division of Anapharm. 
Prior to the validation of a new method, during the conduct of the bioanalytical phase of a study, it was 
observed that a clopidogrel metabolite was partially back-converted to clopidogrel. This conversion 
caused irreproducibility in clinical sample concentrations. Following a thorough bioanalytical 
investigation on this issue, it was shown that the use of methanol in the original method was the root 
cause of the back-conversion reaction. Consequently, the original clopidogrel method was re-worked in 
order to prevent the metabolite-clopidogrel backconversion during samples processing and LCMSMS 
analysis. The SOP describing the original method was removed. The major modification made to the 
new method was that methanol was systematically removed from all steps where it had been used in 
the original procedure. 
According to the original method, clopidogrel was extracted from plasma samples using a validated 
method: 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES AND STATISTICAL METHODS  
For clopidogrel and clopidogrel carboxylic acid, analysis of variance ANOVA was performed on the ln-
transformed data of AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. ANOVA was also carried out on the untransformed 
data of T1/2el and Kel.  
The least-squares means ratios, the 90% confidence intervals and intra-subject CVs were also 
determined for clopidogrel and clopidogrel carboxylic acid. 
• 
Results 
The results (arithmetic means ± SD, CV(%), ratio (90% confidence intervals) and intra-subject CV) are 
summarised in the tables below:  
Clopidogrel:  
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid:  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 90% confidence intervals around the geometric means ratio are in the acceptance range of 80-
125% for the primary parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-inf and Cmax for clopidogrel and clopidogrel 
carboxylic acid. Based on these in vivo results, it can be concluded that Clopidogrel HCS 75 mg is 
bioequivalent to Plavix 75 mg tablets with respect to rate and extent of absorption under fed 
conditions.  
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
There was no post-marketing data submitted by the Applicant for this product. 
There is a wide postmarketing experience with clopidogrel. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Clopidogrel HCS should follow the PSUR submission schedule of the 
reference medicinal product. 
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  (version  4.0)  by  the  applicant 
fulfils  the  legislative  requirements.    The  company  must  ensure  that  this  system  is  in  place  and 
functioning before the product is placed on the market. 
Risk management plan 
A Risk Management Plan has not been submitted. Since the application concerns generics of respective 
reference  medicinal  products  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk  minimization 
activities have been identified, this considered acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Two clinical bioequivalence trials were provided for Clopidogrel HCS. application, analysing the parent 
prodrug  clopidogrel.  The  demonstration  of  the  unchanged  safety/efficacy  profile  of  clopidogrel 
hydrochloride when compared with Plavix (clopidogrel hydrogensulphate) was raised by the CHMP as a 
major  issue  for  this  generic  product.  In  response,  further  discussion  on  the  comparability  of  the 
efficacy  and  safety  profiles  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  and  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was 
provided. Pharmacokinetics, dissolution, adverse events profile and other clinical data were considered 
and it was concluded that the two salts of clopidogrel have a comparable safety/efficacy profile. 
At  the  time  of  approval  of  the  reference  product  Plavix,  there  was  no  reliable  and  validated 
methodology for the determination of the pharmacokinetics of the parent prodrug clopidogrel, or of the 
active  metabolite  clopidogrel  thiol.  Thus,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  established  based  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel carboxylic acid, which is the non-active metabolite.  In the meantime, 
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  reliable  bioanalytical  method  for  determination  of  clopidogrel  in  plasma  and  urine  was  developed. 
Since  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  active  metabolite  is  still  not  well  established,  the  CHMP 
accepted the proof of bioequivalence based on the clopidogrel parent compound data in study 07-197. 
Thus,  data  related  to  pharmacokinetics  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  are  considered  supportive, 
whereas data on clopidogrel parent drug is important for the confirmation of bioequivalence. 
Furthermore, the recently published literature data indicate that the bioavailability of a single oral dose 
of  clopidogrel  and  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  clopidogrel,  especially  Cmax  and AUCinf,  might 
be  increased  by  several  folds  in  the  fed  condition  compared  to  the  fasted  condition.  The  currently 
presented clinical studies were conducted in fasted state and thus, the CHMP requested a clarification 
of  this  approach  and  adequate  justification  why  bioequivalence  for  the  generic  product  should  be 
demonstrated  only  under  fasting  condition  was  provided.  Bioequivalence  studies  in  fasting  conditions 
are  normally  recommended  as  mentioned  in  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and 
Bioequivalence  Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  document  as  the  drug  product  is  to  be 
administered  under  fasting  as  well  as  fed  conditions.  In  addition  the  dissolution  studies  using 
clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate,  conducted  at  three  different  pH  values  (1.2,  4.5,  6.8),  the  applicant 
provided an additional in vivo bioequivalence study conducted under fed conditions. The comparative in 
vitro dissolution studies under conditions mimicking the fed state as well the fed state bioequivalence 
study did not reveal any major differences when compared to the reference drug product. 
The  bio-analytical  technique  and  methodology  applied  in  the  analysis  of  the  samples  during  the 
bioequivalence  studies  included  validation  with  the  analysis  of  calibration  curves  and  controls  at 
various  concentrations.  The  CHMP  questioned  whether  there  is  a  potential  for  back-conversion  of  the 
quantitatively  major  metabolite  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  the  parent  drug.  Considering  that  the 
plasma  levels  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  are  considerably  higher  than  those  of  the  parent  drug,  a 
minimum back-conversion of the metabolite would lead to a significant over-estimation of clopidogrel 
plasma  levels  and  would  bias  the  outcome  of  the  bioequivalence  study.  The  back-conversion  could 
occur in the presence of alcohol used in sample preparation and analysis. It was, indeed, reported that 
a  possible  back-conversion  of  clopidogrel  metabolite  to  clopidogrel  parent  drug  was  evidenced  in  the 
presence  of  methanol.  In  order  to  avoid  this  process,  the  extraction  procedure  was  changed  and 
methanol-free conditions employed. Although it has been indicated that stability tests were performed 
in  order  to  prove  the  reproducibility  and  accuracy  of  clopidogrel  concentration  measurements,  the 
CHMP  questioned  these  results  since  no  clear  description  of  the  analytical  technique  including 
extraction procedure actually used in the initial pre-study validation process was provided. Information 
on the validation procedures in study 07-197 was requested by the CHMP. In response, details of the 
bio-analytical  methodology  and  full  validation  details  were  provided  demonstrating  that  no  methanol, 
which is needed for the conversion the acid metabolite to clopidogrel, was used and thus, no source of 
methylation  exists  within  the  entire  methodology,  including  all  solution  preparation,  plasma  sample 
processing, handling storage and LC-MS/MS determination. The CHMP considered this issue resolved. 
Considering  the  above  difficulties  in  the  determination  of  clopidogrel  in  plasma  especially  the  issue 
related  to  the  possible  back-conversion  of  the  metabolite  to  the  parent  drug,  a  triggered  GCP 
inspection  of  the  bioequivalence  study  was  requested  by  the  CHMP,  which  was  of  the  opinion  that 
results  of  this  inspection  and  the  satisfactory  responses  to  its  findings  were  an  integral  part  of  the 
evaluation  procedure.  The  inspection  identified  major  and  minor  findings  that  seem  not  to  affect  the 
overall results of the trial.  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  bioequivalence  study  07-197  and  its  statistical  evaluation  were  in  accordance  with  accepted 
standards  for  bioequivalence  testing,  as  stated  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish 
bioavailability  included  the  area  under  the  plasma  concentration-time  curve  and  the  maximal  plasma 
concentration  of  the  parent  compound  of  clopidogrel.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  these 
parameters  were  within  the  recommended  80-125%  range  for  clopidogrel,  required  by  the  above 
mentioned  guideline.  The  proposed  widening  of  the  90%  confidence  interval  for  clopidogrel  Cmax  to 
75%-133%  was  found  to  be  unacceptable  by  the  CHMP;  nevertheless,  since  the  confidence  intervals 
for Cmax values of clopidogrel were within the required 80-125% range, the need for widening of the 
intervals was not applicable. The bioequivalence with Plavix was proven.  
User consultation 
The results of user consultation provided indicates that the Package leaflet is well structured and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
2.6.  Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.7.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Clopidogrel HCS in the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
• Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), 
ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease. 
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous 
coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
- ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy, 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Assessment Report 
EMA/CHMP/595926/2010  
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
