14 November 2019 
EMA/7091/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004996/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan 
Applicant: 
Mylan S.A.S 
117 Allee des Parcs 
69800 Saint-Priest 
FRANCE 
Active substances: 
Acetylsalicylic acid / clopidogrel hydrogen 
sulfate 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
Clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
Antithrombotic agents, platelet aggregation 
(ATC Code): 
inhibitors excl. heparin 
(B01AC30) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is 
indicated for the secondary prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients 
already taking both clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is a 
fixed-dose combination medicinal product for 
continuation of therapy in:  
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute 
coronary syndrome (unstable angina 
or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction) 
including patients undergoing a stent 
placement following percutaneous 
coronary intervention  
•  ST segment elevation acute 
myocardial infarction in medically 
treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy  
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Film-coated tablet 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 2/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strength(s): 
75 mg / 75 mg and 75 mg / 100 mg 
Route(s) of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
Blister (alu/alu) and bottle (HDPE) 
Package size(s): 
28 tablets, 28 x 1 tablet (unit dose), 30 
tablets, 30 x 1 tablet (unit dose) and 100 
tablets 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 3/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
List of abbreviations ................................................................................... 5 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 7 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 8 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 10 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 11 
2.2.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 11 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 11 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 15 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects.............................. 19 
2.2.5. Conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................ 20 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 20 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 20 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 20 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 21 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 21 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 21 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 21 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 21 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 26 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 43 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 43 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 43 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 46 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 46 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 47 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 47 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 47 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 47 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 48 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 4/50 
  
  
List of abbreviations 
AE 
Adverse event 
ANOVA  
Analysis of variance 
ASA 
Acetylsalicylic acid 
ASMF 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
AUC 
CEP 
CI 
Cmax 
CRS 
EEA 
EDTA 
GCP 
HDPE 
Area under the curve 
Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia 
Confidence interval 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
European Economic Area 
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid  
Good clinical practice 
High-density polyethylene  
HMLDPE 
High molecular Low Density Polyethylene 
HPLC 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
IR 
ISR 
Infrared 
Incurred samples reanalysis 
LC-MS/MS  
Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
LDPE 
Low-density polyethylene  
MAH 
MS 
NMT 
PDE 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Mass Spectrometry 
Not more than 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
QC 
RH 
rpm 
RSD 
t1/2 
Tmax 
Quality Control 
Relative Humidity 
Rotations per minute 
Relative standard deviation 
Half-life 
Time to maximum plasma concentration 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 5/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TTC 
UV 
XRD 
Threshold of Toxicological Concern 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 6/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Mylan S.A.S submitted on 14 September 2018 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 22 February 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 10b of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is indicated for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
adult patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Mylan is a fixed-dose combination medicinal product for continuation of therapy in: 
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention  
•  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy  
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product DuoPlavin instead of non-clinical and clinical data 
unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: DuoPlavin 75 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg film-coated 
tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
•  Date of authorisation: 15-03-2010 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
-  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/10/619/001-015 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 7/50 
  
  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: DuoPlavin 75 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg film-coated 
tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
•  Date of authorisation: 15-03-2010 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
-  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/10/619/001-015 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/10/619/001-015 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: DuoPlavin 75 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg film-coated 
tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
•  Date of authorisation: 15-03-2010 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
-  Union 
-  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/10/619/001-015 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): BE study C18156 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Rajko Kenda  Co-Rapporteur : N/A 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 8/50 
  
  
CHMP Peer reviewer: N/A 
The application was received by the EMA on 
14 September 2018 
The procedure started on 
4 October 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
20 December 2018 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
4 January 2019 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
31 January 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
29 April 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
3 June 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
14 June 2019 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in an 
27 June 2019 
oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
9 August 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
4 and 9 September 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The CHMP agreed on a 2nd list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in 
19 September 2019 
an oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the 2nd CHMP List of 
11 October 2019 
Outstanding Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
responses to the 2nd List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
30 October and 7 November 
2019 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
14 November 2019 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan on  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 9/50 
  
  
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This centralised marketing authorisation application concerns Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan 75 
mg/100 mg and 75 mg/75 mg film-coated tablets, a generic of DuoPlavin. The originator of 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan, DuoPlavin75 mg/75 mg and 75mg/100 mg film-coated tablets from 
Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC is a fixed-dose combination of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. It 
was first approved in the EU in 2010 for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult 
patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) as continuation therapy in: 
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction)  including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention 
•  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy 
Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid are antithrombotic agents and platelet aggregation inhibitors. Clopidogrel 
selectively inhibits the binding of adenosine diphosphate to its platelet receptor and the subsequent adenosine 
diphosphate-mediated  activation  of  the  glycoprotein  IIb/IIIa  complex.  Clopidogrel  also  inhibits  platelet 
aggregation induced by other agonists by blocking the amplification of platelet activation by released adenosine 
diphosphate. Acetylsalicylic acid inhibits the thromboxane A2 formation due to the acetylation of the platelets 
cyclooxygenase. This anti-aggregate effect is irreversible during the platelets life. Acetylsalicylic acid has also 
analgesic and antipyretic effects; it inhibits the synthesis of prostaglandins and has possible central effects on 
the hypothalamus. 
The use of a fixed-dose combination tablet instead of the individual administration of the two compounds is 
expected to be more convenient to patients (and thus to improve compliance) by limiting the number of 
tablets they need to take. 
This fixed-dose combination of antiplatelet agents is aimed to cover a substitution therapy of clopidogrel and 
ASA administered at the same dose level, dosing interval, and dose timing in the indications where the 
labeling of clopidogrel mentions it should be administered concomitantly with ASA [i.e., the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome (ACS): Non-ST-segment 
elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction) and ST-segment 
elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy].  
Both the test and the reference product contain the same active ingredients i.e. clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate 
and acetylsalicylic acid. 
The Applicant for Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is claiming the same indications as currently approved 
for DuoPlavin.  
The applicant submitted an abridged application relying on the clinical data of the reference product and a 
bioequivalence study to establish essential similarity between the test product and the EU reference product. 
The applicant has conducted one fasting bioequivalence study (study C18156) on the highest strength 
75mg/100 mg and is requesting a biowaiver for the lower 75 mg/75 mg strength in accordance with the 
Guideline on the Investigation of bioequivalence. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 10/50 
  
  
The proposed indication is: 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is indicated for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
adult patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Mylan is a fixed-dose combination medicinal product for continuation of therapy in:   
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention  
•  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film coated tablets containing a fixed-dose combination of 75 mg 
clopidogrel (as hydrogen sulfate) and 75 or 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid.  
Other ingredients are: 
-  Tablet core: cellulose microcrystalline, lactose, croscarmellose sodium, hydroxypropylcellulose, 
colloidal anhydrous silica, talc, hydrogenated castor oil, pregelatinized starch, stearic acid, iron oxide 
yellow (E172) 
-  Coating for 75 mg/75 mg film-coated tablets: hypromellose, triacetin, talc, poly (vinyl alcohol) 
(partially hydrolysed), titanium dioxide, iron oxide yellow (E172), glycerol monocaprylocaprate Type 
1, sodium lauril sulfate 
-  Coating for 75 mg/100 mg film-coated tablets: hypromellose, triacetin, talc, poly (vinyl alcohol) 
(partially hydrolysed), titanium dioxide, allura red AC (E129), glycerol monocaprylocaprate type 1, 
sodium lauril sulfate 
The product is available in aluminium blisters with desiccant layer containing 28 or 30 film-coated tablets, 
aluminium perforated unit dose blisters with desiccant layer containing 28 or 30 film-coated tablets, or HDPE 
bottles with white opaque polypropylene screw cap with aluminium induction sealing liner wad and desiccant 
containing 100 film-coated tablets.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate 
General Information 
The chemical name of clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate is methyl (2S)-(2-chlorophenyl)[6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-
c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl]acetate sulfate, corresponding to the molecular formula C16H18ClNO6S2. It has a relative 
molecular mass of 419.9 and the following structure (Figure 1): 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 11/50 
  
  
Figure 1 Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate structure 
Structure elucidation and chemical properties of active substance were documented via different analytical 
techniques; infrared spectrum (IR), ultraviolet spectrum (UV), proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance 
(1H NMR, 13C NMR), mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and 
Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD). 
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate is described in the Ph. Eur. (monograph 01/2017:2531). There is one 
manufacturer of the clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate active substance and the ASMF procedure is used.  
Clopydogrel hydrogene sulfate is a white or almost white powder, freely soluble in methanol, slightly soluble 
in water and dichloromethane, practically insoluble in cyclohexane, acetone and ethyl acetate. 
It is freely soluble in acidic conditions (pH 1.2) and soluble in the range from pH 4.5 to 8.0.  
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate exists in two polymorphic forms (Form-I and Form-II).  
The test for identification of polymorph by XRPD is part of active substance release and stability 
specifications. Based on the XRPD data of three consecutive production scale batches it is confirmed that the 
active substance manufacturer consistently produces the desired polymorphic form. Stability of the 
polymorphic form is confirmed by results of stability studies.  
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of one chiral centre. The active 
substance is the S (+) Isomer. The undesired isomer, R-isomer is controlled in the active substance 
specifications (by HPLC) with a limit of NMT 0.50%, which is in line with the limit provided in the Ph. Eur. 
monograph of clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate. 
Manufacture, process controls and characterisation 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of 
the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Two starting materials are used. Upon request one of the starting materials was redefined during the 
procedure. After the redefinition of starting material the active substance manufacturing process contains 
three chemical transformation steps, one chiral resolution and one purification step. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. The discussion on carry-over of 
materials from the starting material is provided in the Restricted Part of the ASMF.  
The potential impurities have been identified and the origin of each impurity is stated.  
Starting materials were tested in three batches of active substance with validated analytical procedures. The 
results show they are not detected, hence their control in the active substance specification is not needed. 
The same applies also for the Step I and Step II intermediates.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 12/50 
  
  
 
Genotoxic impurities have been identified. The Option 4 approach of ICH M7 is applicable for one of the 
genotoxic impurity. The carryover studies to active substance for two impurities show to be well below the 
30% of TTC. It is acceptable to not include these impurities in the active substance specification. The results 
for ICH Q3D Class-1 (As. Pb, Cd, Hg) and Class-2A (Co, V, Ni) elements are provided. All results were found 
to be below detection limit. The information on analytical methodology used for the determination of 
elemental impurities is provided. 
The provided information on description and control of the container closure system (HMLDPE bag inserted in 
triple laminated aluminium bag and outer triple laminated aluminium bag) for the active substance is 
considered satisfactory. Compliance of the primary packaging with EU regulation 10/2011 has been 
confirmed. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility, identification (specific optical 
rotation, IR, enantiomeric purity, test for sulfates), appearance of solution, water content (KF), sulfated ash, 
enantiomeric purity (HPLC), related substances (HPLC) assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), identification of 
polymorph (XRPD) and particle size. 
Specification limits are set according to the Ph. Eur. monograph for clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate and general 
requirements of Ph. Eur. Additional test parameters are residual solvents, identification of polymorph and 
particle size. The limits for residual solvents are in line with the ICH Q3C limits. The limits for particle size 
were added in the active substance specification in accordance with the data in the pharmaceutical 
development section. Stability indicating parameters are included in the stability testing. The test parameters 
included in the specification are adequate, and the corresponding acceptance limits are considered justified.  
The analytical methods have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately validated 
in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
Sufficient information is provided regarding the reference standards used in the control of the active 
substance. 
Batch analysis data for three production scale batches are provided and are in compliance with the proposed 
specification. The provided batch analysis data confirm consistency of the manufacturing process and the 
quality of the active substance.  
Stability 
Stability studies (ICH long term: 25°C ± 2°C / 60% ± 5% RH and accelerated: 40°C ± 2°C / 75% ± 5% RH) 
were carried out for three production scale batches stored in the intended commercial packaging. The following 
parameters were tested:  
-  Appearance 
- 
Identification by IR  
-  Water content (%w/w, by KF) 
- 
Enantiomeric purity (% area normalization, by HPLC); impurity C 
-  Related substances (% w/w, by HPLC); impurity A, impurity B, any unspecified impurity, total impurities 
-  Assay (%w/w on anhydrous basis, by HPLC) 
- 
Identification of polymorph (by XRPD) 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 13/50 
  
  
Analytical results demonstrating the stability indicating nature of the HPLC method for assay (in-house 
method) have been provided. Analytical methods are the same as those used for the release testing.   
Storage under long-term and accelerated conditions showed no upward or downward trends, all the results 
remain within the specification. Based on the provided 24 months long term stability data a retest period of 3 
years is considered acceptable.  
A photostability study has not been performed which is accepted as the active substance is stored protected 
from light. 
Acetylsalicylic acid 
General Information 
The chemical name of acetylsalicylic acid is 2-(acetyloxy)benzoic acid, corresponding to the molecular 
formula C9H8O4. It has a relative molecular mass of 180.2 and the following structure (Figure 2): 
Figure 2 Acetylsalicylic acid structure 
Acetylsalicylic acid is a white or almost white, crystalline powder or colourless crystals. It is slightly soluble in 
water and freely soluble in ethanol (96 per cent). There are no reports of polymorphic forms of acetylsalicylic 
acid in the literature.  
As there is a monograph of acetylsalicylic acid in the European Pharmacopoeia (monograph 01/2017:0309), 
the manufacturer of the active substance has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for acetylsalicylic acid which has been provided within the current Marketing 
Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture, process controls and characterisation 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The specification for acetylsalicylic acid from the finished product manufacturer includes tests for appearance, 
solubility, identification (IR, Melting point of precipitate, Colour test, Test for salicylates), appearance of 
solution, melting point, related substances (HPLC), loss on drying, sulphated ash, assay and particle size. 
The specification is in line with the Ph. Eur. monograph for acetylsalicylic acid, with additional tests for 
particle size. The limit for particle size is in line with the studies provided in section 3.2.P.2 Pharmaceutical 
Development.   
The related substances are sufficiently controlled by the monograph and no additional impurities are 
presented above the reporting threshold. Acetic acid is used as a solvent in the last steps of the synthesis. Its 
residual content is limited by the test for loss on drying. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 14/50 
  
  
 
The analytical methods have been adequately described. 
Adequate information on reference standards have been provided. 
Batch analysis data on two active substance batches have been provided. 
Stability 
Stability studies under ICH long term at 25°C ± 2°C / 60% ± 5% RH and accelerated at 40°C ± 2°C & 75% 
± 5% RH conditions were carried out on three production scale batches. Samples were stored in a double 
polythene bag kept in HDPE drum or in a polythene bag kept in kraft paper bag. 
The following parameters were tested: description, loss on drying, related substances and assay. 
Based on the stability data provided (36 month long term and 6 month accelerated), the claimed re-test 
period of 3 years with no specific storage conditions is regarded justified. The proposed re-test period is 
accepted for both container closure systems stated on the CEP (double polyethylene bags placed in a 
polyethylene or fibre drum or alternatively in a polyethylene bag placed in a polyethylene laminated paper 
bag.).  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development   
Description and composition 
The finished product is formulated as fixed dose combination immediate release film coated tablets in two 
strengths (75/75 mg and 75/100 mg). Both strengths of clopidogrel (as hydrogen sulphate) and 
acetylsalicylic acid tablets are dose proportional. Other ingredients are: 
-  Tablet core: cellulose microcrystalline, lactose, croscarmellose sodium, hydroxypropylcellulose, 
colloidal anhydrous silica, talc, hydrogenated castor oil, pregelatinized starch, stearic acid, iron oxide 
yellow (E172) 
-  Coating for 75 mg/75 mg film-coated tablets: hypromellose, triacetin, talc, poly (vinyl alcohol) 
(partially hydrolysed), titanium dioxide, iron oxide yellow (E172), glycerol monocaprylocaprate Type 
1, sodium lauril sulfate 
-  Coating for 75 mg/100 mg film-coated tablets: hypromellose, triacetin, talc, poly (vinyl alcohol) 
(partially hydrolysed), titanium dioxide, allura red AC (E129), glycerol monocaprylocaprate type 1, 
sodium lauril sulfate 
According to the SmPC dosing of the applied product should be given as a single daily 75 mg/75 mg or 75 
mg/100 mg dose. 
Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 75mg/75mg film-coated tablets are yellow, oval shaped, biconvex, film-
coated tablets, debossed with "CA2" on one side of the tablet and "M" on the other side. Dimensions: 
Approximately 14.5 mm × 7.4 mm 
Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic Acid 75mg/100mg film-coated tablets are pink, oval shaped, biconvex, film-
coated tablets, debossed with "CA3" on one side of the tablet and "M" on the other side. Dimensions: 
Approximately 14.8 mm × 7.8 mm 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 15/50 
  
  
The Opadry used in the seal coating and film-coating are purchased from the supplier as a fully-formulated 
material; therefore, finished product manufacturer does not test and release the individual ingredients. 
Container/Closure  
The product is presented in the following pack types: 
•  Aluminium blisters with desiccant layer containing 28 or 30 film-coated tablets.  
•  Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters with desiccant layer containing 28 or 30 film-coated tablets. 
•  HDPE bottles with white opaque polypropylene screw cap with aluminium induction sealing liner wad 
and desiccant containing 100 film-coated tablets.  
The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container closure system has 
been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. The provided 
information on description and control of the container closure system is considered satisfactory.  
Pharmaceutical development 
The purpose of the pharmaceutical development studies was to develop an essentially similar, generic version 
of the branded formulation. The reference product DuoPlavin (clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 75mg/75mg 
and 75/100 mg film-coated tablets), Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC and the Applicant’s clopidogrel 
and acetylsalicylic acid 75mg/75mg and 75mg/100mg film-coated tablets are essentially similar and contain 
the same active ingredients i.e. clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate (Ph. Eur.) and acetylsalicylic acid (Ph. Eur). 
The quality target product profile (QTPP) was defined as immediate release tablets to be administered orally, 
containing 75/74 mg and 75/100 mg of clopidogrel (as hydrogen sulfate) (Ph. Eur.) and acetylsalicylic acid 
(Ph. Eur.) as active ingredients and be pharmaceutically equivalent to the reference product. Further, the 
product should have satisfactory pharmaceutical stability and a comparable dissolution profile to the 
reference product. 
The critical quality attributes defined were identification, assay, content uniformity, related substances, 
dissolution and microbiological test. 
During product development, all attributes in the QTPP were monitored. Risks assessments were performed 
to identify the formulation variables and process parameters affecting the identified critical quality attributes 
(CQAs). 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. 
Standards, except Opadry clear, Opadry yellow and Opadry pink which are premixtures, but their 
components comply with Ph. Eur, where available. Iron oxide yellow (E172) FD&C Red #40/ Allura red AC 
Aluminium Lake (E129) are not described in Ph. Eur. but they comply with Commission Regulation (EU) No. 
231/2012. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
Based on the reference product it was decided to develop a bilayer tablet formulation in which clopidogrel 
hydrogen sulfate is included in one layer and acetylsalicylic acid in another layer.  
The qualitative composition of the excipients is different from that of the reference product. The excipients 
mannitol and macrogol 6000 are not present in the proposed formulation. Instead, lactose (diluent) has been 
chosen in the proposed formulation after the trial development studies. Moreover, the film-coating system 
used is different from that of the reference product. The justification for the differences in the composition 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 16/50 
  
  
versus the reference product has been supported with experimental dissolution data and drug-excipient 
compatibility studies. 
A risk assessment of the active substances attributes was performed to evaluate the impact that each 
attribute could have on the finished product CQAs.  
Information about active substance and excipients is considered acceptable. The formulation development 
has been described in detail.  
To select the dissolution conditions for routine quality control testing, the dissolution behavior was studied on 
test product Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic acid Tablets in various dissolution media in volume of 900 ml 
using dissolution apparatus II. Considering the results of studied media and literature information a common 
dissolution release medium for both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid was selected.  
The discriminatory power of the test conditions has been demonstrated by dissolution studies on different 
batches formulated with slightly modified process and composition. 
The absorption kinetics of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid is linear within the therapeutic range.  
The results of in vitro dissolution tests in three different buffers (0.1 N HCl, acetate buffer pH 4.5 and 
phosphate buffer pH 6.8) and the media intended for finished product release, obtained with the test (1 batch 
75/75 mg and one batch 75/100 mg, the latter was used in the bioequivalence study) and reference product 
(1 batch 75/100 mg, used in the bioequivalence study) batches have been provided using dissolution 
apparatus Type – II (Paddle), in 900 mL, temperature: 37°C ± 0.5°C.  
Similarity factors were calculated between the pivotal bio-batch and the reference product. Test and 
reference product showed similar dissolution profiles in several media. However, dissolution profiles are not 
comparable for acetylsalicylic acid in pH 2.0 and for clopidogrel in pH 4.5. The applicant has addressed the 
reasons for the discrepancy, explaining that the test product has slower dissolution at the initial time point as 
its coating system may take longer duration to dissolve as compared to the reference product 
The bioequivalence study was carried out on the highest strength (75/100 mg). One multidisciplinary major 
objection was raised in relation to selection of the agitation speed for the dissolution method used for QC 
testing and to support a biowaiver for the lower strength.  
To support the proposed agitation speed for the QC testing the applicant demonstrated that study results 
generated at agitation speed of 50 rpm showed incomplete drug release after 45 min and higher variability in 
the earlier time points for both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. Less variability and complete release was 
observed for clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid at the proposed agitation speed. With regard to the biowaiver 
of strength the applicant provided additional dissolution profiles of the bio-strength (75/100 mg) and lower 
strength (75/75 mg) using the agitation speed of 50 rpm as requested. Bootstrapping was performed for 
calculation of similarity factors where the RSD value is found to be too high at the early time points. The 
results provide reassurance that the release profile of the bio-batch (75/100 mg) is similar to the release 
profile of the lower strength (75/75 mg). 
As apparent from the results of the comparative impurity profile study, both test product and the reference 
product exhibit similar impurity profile. 
The manufacturing process was optimized for roller speed and roller force, precompaction blending, 
compaction, milling, post-compaction blending for clopidogrel part and blending for acetylsalicylic acid, tablet 
hardness range and coating build-up. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 17/50 
  
  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
There is one manufacturer of the finished product. The critical steps involved in the finished product 
manufacturing process include blending, compression, coating and packaging. The process is considered to 
be a standard manufacturing process. 
The in-process controls are sufficiently described and the frequency of testing is suitable. 
The manufacturing process has been validated at the smaller production scale. 
Product specification, analytical procedures, batch analysis 
The finished product release specification include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: description, 
identification (HPLC), colour identification, dissolution (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units, assay (HPLC), 
water (KF), microbiological test, residual solvents (GC), related substances (HPLC) and enantiomeric purity 
(HPLC).     
Overall, the finished product specifications have been adequately set in accordance with ICH Q6A and Ph. 
Eur. and the justifications provided are acceptable. The identified impurities are in line with the impurities 
listed for the active substance, no new impurities are expected for the finished product.  
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk assessment and the 
data presented it can be concluded that it is not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls in the 
finished product specification. The information on the control of elemental impurities is satisfactory.  
Analytical methods and reference standards 
The analytical methods used for the control of the finished product have been satisfactorily described and 
validation data of the in-house analytical methods are in accordance with the requirements of the relevant 
ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and related 
substances testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analysis results for three commercial size batches of each strength have been provided. The results 
confirm consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from three production scale batches of each strength stored for up to 12 months under long 
term conditions (25 ± 2°C/60 ± 5% RH) and intermediate conditions (30 ± 2°C/75 ± 5% RH) according to 
the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches are identical to those proposed for marketing and were 
packed in the primary packagings proposed for marketing (i.e. desiccant cold form blister pack and HDPE 
bottle pack)  
Samples were tested for: description, assay, dissolution, water by KF, enantiomeric purity, related 
substances and microbiological test. The analytical procedures used are stability indicating. The data indicate 
a slight increase in impurities over time, but all results were within the shelf-life specification. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 18/50 
  
  
The Applicant also provided up to 6 months stability data at accelerated storage condition (40°C ± 2°C/75% 
RH ± 5% RH). Results for impurities and dissolution were out of specification.  
The shelf life initially claimed by the applicant was not accepted and a major objection was raised on the lack 
of appropriate data to support this proposal. Although 12 months stability data at both intermediate and 
long-term storage conditions for the proposed pack types are provided and found acceptable, the shelf-life 
could be extended for a maximum 3 months (i.e. a shelf life of 15 months) in view of the significant changes 
observed at the accelerated storage condition. In response, the applicant reduced the shelf-life to 15 months 
which was considered acceptable. 
Forced degradation studies were performed during validation of the assay and related substances test 
methods. It was concluded that the degradation studies conducted are indicative enough to understand the 
degradation nature of the molecules and its impact on the method capability to quantify the degradants. 
Moreover, peak purity data established for these forced degradation studies indicate that no degradants will 
coelute with clopidogrel or acetylsalicylic acid peaks. 
Photostability was studied as per ICH Q1B. The study results indicated that clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
75mg/100mg film-coated tablets are photostable as there were no out of specification results. 
In-use stability results for two bottle batches per strength were performed. The results were in compliance 
with the specification and based on the data provided, it is not considered necessary to establish an in-use 
shelf life. 
Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 15 months when stored at up to 25°C as 
stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) is considered acceptable.  
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose used is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as 
those used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. This 
is considered satisfactory. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicated consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
During the procedure one major objection was raised for one of the proposed starting materials for 
clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate. The starting material was redefined, and the new starting material was 
accepted. Another major objection related to lack of sufficient data to support the proposed shelf life of the 
finished product. The initially proposed shelf life was therefore reduced to 15 months, which is considered 
acceptable. A multidisciplinary major objection was raised regarding the dissolution method used for QC 
testing and to support the biowaiver of strengths as the applicant was using a selected agitation speed o and 
not 50 rpm. Further data and justifications were provided to satisfactorily justify the use of the selected 
agitation speed for the QC testing (insufficient drug release at 50 rpm) and provide reassurance that the 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 19/50 
  
  
release profile of the bio-batch (75/100 mg) was similar to the release profile of the lower strength (75/75 
mg). 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of 
the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 20/50 
  
  
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. The justification initially submitted by the 
Applicant for not providing new ERA studies was not considered adequate. In line with the Questions and 
answers on Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), the Applicant was requested during the procedure to justify the absence of a 
possible significant increase of environmental exposure to the drug substances, providing concrete relevant 
data such the consumed quantities of active substances in kg/year, and based on European disease 
prevalence data for the refinement of Fpen. Furthermore, the Applicant was requested to provide information 
on an experimentally derived n-octanol/water partition coefficient (log Kow) for acetylsalicylic acid and 
clopidogrel. The Applicant provided the requested revised justification which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. The introduction of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan manufactured by Mylan S.A.S is 
considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all clopidogrel / 
acetylsalicylic acid containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, 
the ERA is expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid are 
well characterised as both active substances are widely used and well-known. It is agreed that no further 
non-clinical studies are required. A non-clinical overview provided by the applicant covers recent available 
literature concerning the non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology of clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate and 
acetylsalicylic acid and is considered appropriate. 
Based on the Phase II ERA studies of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid conducted by Sanofi-Aventis and 
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH, respectively, the justification for non-submission of an Environmental Risk 
Assessment provided by the Applicant is considered acceptable. 
The impurity profile of Clopidogrel/acetylsalicylic acid Mylan film-coated tablets 75 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 
mg was compared with European reference product DuoPlavin 75 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg film-coated 
tablets marketed by Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC. No additional impurities were observed in the 
test product. Products are considered as essentially similar from aspect of the impurity profile. 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid are 
well characterised as both active substances are widely used and well-known. It is agreed that no further 
non-clinical studies are required. No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted which is 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. To support the 
marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 21/50 
  
  
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment, the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) 
as well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09), the Guideline on 
clinical development of fixed combination medicinal products (EMA/CHMP/158268/2017), Question number 
4.1 of the Questions & Answers: Positions on specific questions addressed to the Pharmacokinetics Working 
Party (EMEA/618604) and the Reflection paper on the dissolution specification for generic solid oral 
immediate release products with systemic action (EMA/CHMP/CVMP/QWP/336031/2017) in their current 
version are of particular relevance.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
Justification for Biowaiver (for 75 mg/75 mg strength) 
The Applicant requested a biowaiver for the 75 mg/75 mg strength, based on the result of the bioequivalence 
study conducted with the 75 mg/100 mg mg strength, with the following justification provided: 
•  Both strengths of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid film-coated tablets (75 mg/75 mg mg and 75 
mg/100 mg) are manufactured by the same manufacturer at the same manufacturing site and 
manufacturing process. 
• 
• 
• 
Linear pharmacokinetics, i.e. proportional increase in AUC and Cmax with increased dose, over the 
therapeutic dose range. 
The qualitative composition of both strengths is the same.  
The composition of both strengths is quantitatively proportional, i.e. the ratio between the amount of 
each excipient to the amount of active substances is the same for both strengths (except for coating 
components, color agents and flavors). 
•  Appropriate in vitro dissolution data should confirm the adequacy of waiving additional in vivo 
bioequivalence testing. 
  Linear pharmacokinetics of ASA 
Linear pharmacokinetics of ASA over the dose range of 30 mg to 100 mg have been published (Dubovská et 
al., 1995) which gives evidence for the extrapolatability of the results of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
film-coated tablets 75 mg/100 mg to the other tablet strength 75 mg/75 mg of this application also from the 
pharmacokinetic point of view. 
  In-vitro Dissolution Data for Biowaiver Request for Different Strengths 
The experimental dissolution conditions are as follows: 
Parameter 
Conditions  
Dissolution media:  
Release media 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 22/50 
  
  
 
0.1N Hydrochloric acid 
pH 4.5 Acetate buffer 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer 
Dissolution apparatus: Type – II (Paddle with sinker) 
Volume:  
900 mL 
Temperature: 
37°C ± 0.5°C 
Sampling time (for profile study only): 10 min, 15 min, 20 min, 30 min and 45 min 
Test product used in the bioequivalence study vs other strength of Test product vs Reference product 
The dissolution profile data was generated for test batches of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75 
mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg in different pH conditions like 0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer, pH 6.8 
phosphate buffer and release media. The summaries of comparative dissolution profiles between biobatch 
and the lower strength batch and European reference product in different media are provided in the 
application. 
The similarity factor (f2 value) was calculated between bio-batch and lower strength batch. The bootstrap 
calculation method is used for calculation of similarity factor as higher relative standard deviation (RSD) was 
observed in one buffer for one of the drug component. The summaries of f2 value comparison between 
biobatch and lower strength batch in different media are provided. 
Based on the above data of f2 values, it can be concluded that both batches express similar dissolution profile 
for both Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic acid across the pH range of 1.2 to 6.8. 
The  dissolution  methodology  and  the  dissolution  profile  similarity  testing  followed  the  Guideline  on  the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **, 20 January 2010). 
During the evaluation procedure, the Applicant was requested to justify the selection agitation speed. In 
order to justify the selection of agitation speed  for this product instead of 50rpm, the Applicant provided 
during the evaluation new comparative dissolution study results between the lower strength (75/75 mg) and 
bio-strength (75/100 mg) of the test product at rotation speed of 50 rpm in QC release media . The 
dissolution study results generated at agitation speed of 50 rpm showed incomplete drug release after 45 min 
and higher % RSD in the earlier time points for both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. Whereas less 
variability and complete release was observed for clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid at selected agitation 
speed.  
Moreover, the Applicant has performed comparative dissolution profiles of bio-strength (75/100 mg) and 
lower strength (75/75 mg) in physiological pH range (0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 Acetate buffer, pH 6.8 Phosphate 
buffer and in QC media) using the agitation speed of 50 rpm as requested. The similarity factor (f2 value) 
were calculated between bio-strength and lower strength batch.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 23/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
After assessment of the applicant’s response, it was concluded that the selected  agitation speed for in vitro 
dissolution tests to support a biowaiver of lower strength 75 mg/75 mg has not been adequately justified. 
Calculation of f2-values in the case above is not allowed as the RSD values at the early time points were too 
high. Therefore, the Applicant was requesting to perform bootstrapping. When the ƒ2 statistic is not suitable 
due to too high RSD values, then the 90% confidence interval of the f2 similarity factor calculated by 
bootstrapping is recommended. Similarity between two dissolution profiles can be concluded when the lower 
limit of the 90% CI of f2 is equal or greater than 50. A description of the software used and output of the 
software should be included.  
To answer the question raised regarding the selection of agitation speed for this product, the Applicant 
performed the bootstrapping  for calculation of similarity factor for the dissolution profiles at agitation speed 
of 50 rpm where the RSD value is found to be higher at the early time points. The summary of bootstrap 
analysis and similarity factor calculation for dissolution profiles at agitation speed of 50 rpm in different 
mediums showed that f2 was more than 50 but lower limit (5th percentile) of the 90% CI of f2 is observed to 
be slightly less than 50 for some of the dissolution profiles of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. 
Furthermore, the Applicant provided the requested photographs for visual observation of dissolution of 
Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75/75mg and 75/100 mg at both 50 & selected rpm. The 
presented photographs show unstirred contents (coning) at bottom of dissolution vessel at 50 rpm whereas 
less unstirred contents is observed at selected rpm after 20 min, 30 min and 45 min. Thus, the selection of 
agitation speed for in vitro dissolution tests is considered appropriate by the CHMP.  
In order to justify the exclusion of the first sampling time point , the Applicant provided during the evaluation 
results of disintegration time observed at compression stage (un-coated) of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic 
acid tablets. The above data indicates that core tablets of both strengths are having a longer disintegration 
time. Taking into consideration that clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablet is a bilayer tablet which consists 
of two separate layers of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid and having a longer disintegration time and the 
higher variability in dissolving of film coating layers in earlier time points of dissolution profile study will not 
have any impact on in vivo performance of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid, the exclusion of the first 
sampling point  is considered justified. 
Furthermore, the Applicant performed during the evaluation the dissolution profile study for two other pilot 
scale batches of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75/75 mg and clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
tablets 75/100 mg . The dissolution profile results are provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 24/50 
  
  
 
 
The similarity factor (f2 value) has been calculated between bio-batch and other two pilot scale batches of 
75/100 mg  and other two pilot scale batches of lower strength 75/75 mg . The bootstrap calculation method 
is used for calculation of similarity factor as higher %RSD was observed for one of the drug component. The 
summaries of f2 value comparison are provided below. 
Comparison of dissolution profiles shows that the above batches of both strengths express similar dissolution 
profiles to that of bio batch (BEQ) for both active substances. However, the 90% confidence interval of the f2 
obtained from the bootstrap method was not initially reported in the submitted documentation. The Applicant 
provided during the procedure the requested similarity factor calculation including 90% confidence interval 
for bootstrap statistical evaluation of dissolution profiles for clopidogrel.  
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
The Applicant committed to perform comparative dissolution profile on the production scale batches of 
clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic Acid 75mg/75mg and 75mg/100mg film-coated tablets. The results will be 
provided at a Competent Authority’s request or if the dissolution profiles are not similar together with 
proposed action. 
B) Comparative dissolution studies (Test product versus reference product) 
The Applicant carried out comparative dissolution studies, using the selected rotation speed , between the EU 
reference product DuoPlavin 75 mg/100 mg tablets and the test product clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
75 mg/100 mg (both used in BE study) in different dissolution media i.e. 0.1N HCl, , pH 4.5 Acetate buffer, 
pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer and Release media covering the pH range of pH 1.2 to pH 6.8.  
Similarity factor (f2 value) was calculated between pivotal biobatch  and EU reference product DuoPlavin 
Tablets 75/100 mg  tested in release media, 0.1N HCl and pH 4.5 (at the selected rotation speed) was 
calculated using the multiple sampling time points  excluding the first sampling time point , without providing 
appropriate justification for this selective approach. The bootstrap calculation method is used for calculation 
of similarity factor as higher RSD was observed in one media for one of the drug component.  
The summaries of f2 value comparison between pivotal biobatch and reference product for Clopidogrel 
hydrogen sulfate and Acetylsalicylic acid are provided. 
The above comparison of f2 value indicates that the clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75/100 mg 
and DuoPlavin Tablets 75/100 mg are having the similar dissolution profiles for clopidogrel in 0.1 N HCl, 
release media and pH 6.8 and for acetylsalicylic acid in 0.1 N HCl, pH 4.5 and pH 6.8. However, dissolution 
profiles are not comparable for acetylsalicylic acid in one media and for clopidogrel in one media . The 
Applicant addressed the reasons for the discrepancy. The Applicant argued conclusively that the test product 
has slower dissolution at initial time point  as it consists of two film coating process i.e. seal coating and 
moisture barrier coating which may take longer duration to dissolve as compared to the reference product 
where in hypromellose based coating is present. In the event that the results of comparative in vitro 
dissolution of the biobatches do not reflect bioequivalence as demonstrated in vivo, the latter prevails.  
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the Applicant submitted one bioequivalence study, Bioequivalence study No.: 
C18156 under fasting conditions. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 25/50 
  
  
 
Table 1 Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study C18156: A randomized, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single-dose, crossover 
oral bioequivalence study of Clopidogrel bisulfate and Aspirin Tablets 75mg / l00mg of Mylan Laboratories 
Limited with DuoPlavin (Clopidogrel Hydrogen sulphate and Acetyl salicylic acid) 75mg/100mg film coated 
tablets of Sanofi Winthrop, in normal healthy adult human subjects under fasting conditions. 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomized, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single-dose, crossover 
bioequivalence study to compare the bioavailability of 2 formulations of clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylic 
acid and ASA (75 mg/100 mg) under fasting conditions.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 26/50 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 2 Summary of study information 
Study 
Site 
(clinical, 
bioanalytical, 
Aizant  Drug  Research  Solutions  Pvt.  Ltd.,  Survey  No.: 
statistical): 
172  &  173,  Apparel  Park  Road,  Dulapally  Village, 
Quthbullapur Mandal, Hyderabad, India-500100 
Sponsor:  
Mylan S.A.S., India 
Principal investigator:  
Dr. Bala Krishna. N, M.B.B.S, M.D 
Clinical Phase Dates: 
Group-I: 04. Jun 2018 – 15. Jun 2018 
Group-II: 13. Jun 2018 – 22. Jun 2018 
Date of the Clinical Study Report: 
29 August 2018 
Bioanalytical Phase Dates: 
Aspirin & Salicilic acid:     30 June 2018 to 20 July 2018 
Clopidogrel:  
               02 July to 26 July 2018 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid: 29 June to 16 July 2018 
Date of the Bioanalytical Phase Report:  
22 August 2018  
Date of the Method Validation Report 
Clopidogrel: 21 November 2017 
Latest Addendum (03): dated on 22 August 2018 
ASA & Salicilic acid: 27 June 2018 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid: 06 February 2018 
The study was conducted at the highest/most sensitive strength and under fasting conditions, which reflects 
recommendations in the reference product’s summary of product characteristics for the administration of the 
product irrespective of mealtimes and it is considered to be the most sensitive condition to detect a potential 
difference between formulations. The measurement of the parent compound (clopidogrel and ASA) is also 
according to Guidance (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 Cor.). 
The study was conducted on 76 healthy, adult, human subjects in accordance with the protocol. 74 subjects 
completed the study. The study was conducted in two groups and in each group, the subjects received one 
tablet of either test or reference product randomly with 240 mL of ambient temperature on the day of dosing 
as per the randomization schedule under fasting conditions in each period of the study. The drug product was 
administered after at least 10.00 hours overnight fasting. Drug administration carried out at 02-minute 
intervals. A 9 days washout separated each period in group-I and 7 days washout separated each period in 
group-II.  
Blood samples were collected at pre-dose (0.00 hours) and at intervals over 24.00 hours after administration 
of dose. The sampling period was sufficient to characterize the plasma concentration-time profile. Blood 
sampling points are appropriate to allow an accurate measurement of Tmax. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 27/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given a half-life of clopidogrel of 6 hours and a half-life of clopidogrel carboxylic acid of 8 hours, the sampling 
period and wash-out period of 9 days (group I) and 7 days (group II) were long enough (more than 5 times 
of the elimination half-lives of the substances) to avoid any carry-over effect. Given a half-life of 
acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) of 15-30 minutes and a half-life of salicylic acid (SA) of 2-3 hours, the sampling 
period and wash-out period of 9 days (group I) and 7 days (group II) were long enough (more than 5 times 
of the elimination half-lives of the substances) to avoid any carry-over effect. The absorption process was 
likely covered with the given sampling schedule. 
The Applicant made changes in the study protocol regarding the name of the test and reference products and 
the reference product manufacturer address. Those changes were not approved by the Independent Ethics 
Committee and this was raised as a GCP issue. During the procedure, suitable explanation why the protocol 
was changed without the approval of Independent Ethics Committee was provided by the Applicant and this 
was considered satisfactory by the CHMP.  
No other protocol deviations have been registered other than minor deviations from the blood sampling time 
points and dispensing time of investigational products. The deviation in dispensing time of investigational 
products is not considered significant and had no impact on study results. The deviations in scheduled 
sampling time had no impact on study results as actual sampling times were used for PK calculations.  
Test and reference products  
Product Characteristics 
Test Product 
Name 
Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 
75mg/100mg 
75mg/100mg 
Tablets 
2014503 
240000 
Clopidogrel: 103.4 % w/w 
Acetylsalicylic acid: 100.8 % w/w 
Not applicable 
Dec 2019. 
5312-compar-ba-be- 
stud-rep, Appendix-16.1.7 
Strength 
Dosage Form 
Batch number/ Lot number 
Batch Size (Biobatch) 
Measured Content(s) 
(% of Label Claim) 
Commercial Batch Size 
Expiry Date 
Location of Certificate of 
Analysis 
Member State where the 
reference product is purchased 
from: 
This product was used in the 
following trials: 
Reference Product 
DuoPlavin® 75mg/100mg 
filmtabletten 
Clopidogrel/acetylsalicylic acid) 
75mg/100mg 
Tablets 
7A220 
Not available 
Clopidogrel: 103.4 % w/w 
Acetylsalicylic acid: 101.7 % w/w 
Not available 
05/2019 
5312-compar-ba-be- 
stud-rep, Appendix-16.1.7 
Not applicable 
EU  
Study no.: C18156 
Study no.: C18156 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan 75/100 mg manufactured by Mylan Laboratories Limited (batch No. 
2014503,; exp. Date: December 2019) has been compared to DuoPlavin 75/100 mg manufactured by Sanofi 
Clir SNC (Batch No: 7A220, exp. Date: May 2019). 
The reference and test products were considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 28/50 
  
  
 
 
During the procedure. a signed statement confirming that the test product has the same quantitative 
composition and is manufactured by the same process as the one submitted for authorisation was provided 
by the Applicant.  
Population(s) studied 
The study was conducted in two groups. In Group-I 32 plus 2 additional subjects (standby-I & II) and in 
Group-II 44 plus 2 additional subjects (standby-III & IV) healthy volunteers human subjects meeting the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria as mentioned in the study protocol were enrolled in to the study to ensure the 
dosing of 76 subjects. All the dosed subjects (32 subjects) in Group-I completed the clinical phase of the 
study successfully. From Group II, 2 subjects withdrawn (subject number 46 & 67) prior dosing in period 2 
and in all, 42 subjects in Group-II completed the clinical phase of the study successfully. A total of 74 
subjects were included in pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis.  
The population chosen was according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). Inclusion and exclusion criteria were acceptable and performed according 
to the protocol requirements. All the subjects were dosed as per the randomization. The reason of the 
withdrawal was acceptable. During the procedure, the Applicant provided adequate justification for not 
providing the concentration data of withdrawn subjects from the study. The Case report forms of subject’s 
no.46 and 67 participated in the study were provided as requested. This was considered acceptable by the 
CHMP. 
Analytical methods 
Acetyl salicylic acid and salicylic acid:  
The plasma samples of subjects were analyzed for acetyl salicylic acid and salicylic acid in human sodium 
fluoride and potassium oxalate plasma using validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
(LC/MS/MS) method over a concentration range of 15.787 - 4049.961 ng/mL for analyte and 78.891 - 
20238.774 ng/mL for metabolite [BL-MV-315 Version-00]. The performance of the bioanalytical method was 
verified by bioanalytical laboratory of Aizant Drug Research Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
Table 3 Study sample information 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 29/50 
  
  
 
Table 4 ISR (Incurred samples reanalysis) for ASA 
Results of the performed ISR experiment met the acceptance criteria, as 95.43% of the 372 incurred samples 
were within the acceptance range for ASA. 
Table 5 ISR (Incurred samples reanalysis) for Salicylic acid 
Results of the performed ISR experiment met the acceptance criteria, as 94.89% of the 372 incurred samples 
were within the acceptance range for Salicylic acid. 
The analytical method was validated, either pre-study and within study, however not entirely conducted 
according to Guideline on bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009. After assessment 
of the Applicant’s responses, it is concluded that the bioanalytical method was satisfactorily validated, either 
pre-study and within study. Handling of samples was adequate. Reasons for reanalysis of samples are 
considered acceptable. Incurred sample reproducibility tests were acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 30/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clopidogrel: 
The plasma samples of subjects were analyzed for clopidogrel in human K3 Ethylenediaminetetraacetic 
acid  (EDTA) plasma using validated LC/MS/MS method over a concentration range of 10.007 - 4013.922 
pg/mL [BL-MV-281 Version-00]. The performance of the bioanalytical method was verified by bioanalytical 
laboratory of Aizant Drug Research Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
Table 6 Study sample information 
The analytical method was validated, either pre-study and within study, however not entirely conducted 
according to Guideline on bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009. Handling of 
samples was adequate. Reasons for reanalysis of samples are considered acceptable. Incurred sample 
reproducibility tests were considered acceptable.  
During the evaluation, the Applicant was requested to demonstrate the lack of occurrence of a potential back-
conversion of clopidogrel carboxylic acid metabolite to the parent-drug (unchanged clopidogrel). The 
Applicant acknowledged the CHMP’s observation and clarified that the potential possible back conversion of 
major metabolite Clopidogrel carboxylic acid to the parent-drug Clopidogrel has been extensively tested 
under the conditions for plasma handling and storage that occurred during the clinical and bioanalysis phases 
and the method was fully validated to demonstrate no back-conversion occurred. It is known that the plasma 
levels of clopidogrel carboxylic acid (Metabolite) can be considerably higher than those of the parent 
clopidogrel drug, and that back conversion can occur in the presence of methanol, it is imperative that no 
back conversion of the carboxylic acid metabolite to the parent clopidogrel occurs.  If back-conversion of the 
metabolite occurs, this could lead to a significant over-estimation of clopidogrel plasma levels and bias the 
outcome of the bioequivalence study. Since the back-conversion occurs in the presence of alcohol 
(methanol), no methanol or alcohol was used in any of the sample processing and extraction steps during the 
bioanalysis. 
To demonstrate no back-conversion, multiple experiments were undertaken to demonstrate that no back-
conversion occurs during the conduct of the sample collection through the bioanalysis. The major 
experiments needed to cover the clinical and bioanalytical phases are:  
•  Whole blood sample exposure (Whole blood stability) 
• 
Plasma exposure at room temperature (Bench top stability)  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 31/50 
  
  
 
• 
• 
• 
Freeze thaw cycles (Freeze thaw stability) 
Long term plasma storage stability 
Processed/Autosampler stability 
•  Accuracy and Precision   
The experimental data obtained and presented by the Applicant during the evaluation demonstrated that 
samples of clopidogrel spiked with therapeutically relevant concentrations of the clopidogrel carboxylic acid 
do not undergo back-conversion to the metabolite to the parent compound. This was demonstrated for all 
conditions that occurred throughout the sample collection, processing, analysis and storage. Thus, there is no 
impact on the reported concentrations for the study and the reported concentrations are valid, reliable and 
reproducible. 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid: 
The plasma samples of subjects were analyzed for clopidogrel carboxylic acid in human K3EDTA plasma using 
validated LC/MS/MS method over a concentration range of 20.079 - 7999.508 ng/mL [BL-MV-284 Version-
00]. The performance of the bioanalytical method was verified by bioanalytical laboratory of Aizant Drug 
Research Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
Table 7 Study sample information 
The analytical method was validated, either pre-study and within study, however not entirely conducted 
according to Guideline on bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009. After assessment 
of the Applicant’s responses, it is concluded that the bioanalytical method was satisfactorily validated, either 
pre-study and within study. Handling of samples was adequate. Reasons for reanalysis of samples are 
acceptable. Incurred sample reproducibility tests were acceptable.  
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were determined from the time and concentration data:  
Clopidogrel: Cmax, AUC0-t, Tmax, t1/2, Kel, AUC0-inf and (AUC0-t / AUC 0-inf) x 100 
Acetylsalicylic acid: Cmax, AUC0-t, Tmax, t1/2, Kel, AUC0-inf and (AUC0-t / AUC 0-inf) x 100 
Salicylic acid: Cmax, AUC0-t, Tmax, t1/2, Kel, AUC0-inf and (AUC0-t / AUC 0-inf) x 100 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 32/50 
  
  
 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid: Cmax, AUC0-t, Tmax, t1/2, Kel, AUC0-inf and (AUC0-t / AUC 0-inf) x 100 
Primary pharmacokinetic variables for assessment of bioequivalence were:  
Cmax and AUC0-t 
Secondary pharmacokinetic variables:  
Tmax, t1/2, Kel, AUC0-inf and (AUC0-t / AUC 0-inf) x 100 
For pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis actual time of blood sample collection was used for estimation of 
pharmacokinetic parameters, which was computed using noncompartmental model of Phoenix® WinNonlin® 
version 8.0. 
All  concentration  values  below  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  are  set  to  zero  for  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical calculations. 
Statistical methods 
Statistical analysis was performed on ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters by using statistical 
software Phoenix® WinNonlin® version 8.0 and SAS® System for Windows (Version: 9.2). 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) taking into account sequence, formulation, period and subject within sequence 
as fixed effects was performed on the ln transformed Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf parameters (for ASA, Salicylic 
acid, Clopidogrel and Clopidogrel carboxylic acid) using the SAS® System GLM procedure. The period, 
sequence and treatment / formulation effects were tested at 5% level of significance. 
Additionally, as the study was conducted in two groups, the Group*Formulation effect was added to the model. 
ANOVA  model  included  group,  sequence,  subjects  (group*sequence),  period  (group),  formulation,  group 
*formulation as the fixed effects on the ln transformed Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf parameters (for ASA, salicylic 
acid, clopidogrel and clopidogrel carboxylic acid) using the SAS® System GLM procedure.  
Bioequivalence between the Test (Treatment A) and Reference (Treatment B) was tested by the 90% 
confidence intervals for the ratio of the population geometric means (T/R) for the parameters.  
Confidence intervals (CI) were determined for the ln- transformed AUC0-inf, AUC0-t and Cmax for ASA, salicylic 
acid, clopidogrel and clopidogrel carboxylic acid using the treatments least squares means (LS-Means) and 
the residual values obtained from ANOVA. 
Bioequivalence was concluded when the 90% confidence intervals of geometric least square mean ratio of the 
test and reference product falls within the acceptance range of 80.00 % -125.00% for ln-transformed Cmax 
and AUC0-t for aspirin and clopidogrel. Salicylic acid and clopidogrel carboxylic acid data was submitted as 
supportive evidence. 
Results 
The pharmacokinetic data were analysed as per the statistical method defined in the protocol. The data of 74 
subjects were analysed using ANOVA model with the terms sequence, formulation, period and subject within 
sequence as the fixed effects. In addition, the significance of the group of formulation effect was tested.  
Salicylic acid and clopidogrel carboxylic acid data was submitted as supportive evidence. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 33/50 
  
  
 
 
Clopidogrel 
Table 8 Pharmacokinetic parameters for Clopidogrel (non-transformed values), N=74 
Table 9 Statistical analysis for Clopidogrel (ln-transformed values), N=74 
Mean concentration-time profiles (semi-log and linear) of Clopidogrel are depicted in the two figures below. 
Figure 3 Linear Plot 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 34/50 
  
  
 
 
 
Figure 4 Semi Log Plot 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid 
Table 10 Pharmacokinetic parameters for Clopidogrel carboxylic acid (non-transformed  
values); N=74 
Table 11 Statistical analysis for Clopidogrel carboxylic acid (ln-transformed values); N=74 
Mean concentration-time profiles (semi-log and linear) of clopidogrel carboxylic acid are depicted in the 
two figures below 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 35/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Linear Plot 
Figure 6 Semi Log Plot 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 36/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 
Table 12 Pharmacokinetic parameters for ASA (non-transformed values); N=74 
Table 13 Statistical analysis for ASA (ln-transformed values); N=74 
Mean concentration-time profiles (semi-log and linear) of ASA are depicted in the two figures below. 
Figure 7 Linear Plot 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 37/50 
  
  
 
 
 
Figure 8 Semi Log Plot 
Salicylic acid (SA) 
Table 14 Pharmacokinetic parameters for SA (non-transformed values); N=74 
Table 15 Statistical analysis for SA (ln-transformed values); N=74 
Mean concentration-time profiles (semi-log and linear) of SA are depicted in the two figures below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 38/50 
  
  
 
 
 
Figure 9 Linear Plot 
Figure 10 Semi Log Plot 
Statistical p-value results from ANOVA model for primary parameters 
Clopidogrel 
For AUC0-t period effect was found statistically significant on ln-transformed scale with p-value 0.0455. 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid 
For Cmax formulation/treatment effect was found statistically significant with respect to p-value 0.0278. 
ASA 
For Cmax formulation/treatment effect was found statistically significant with respect to p-value 0.0354. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 39/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
SA 
For Cmax formulation/treatment effect was found statistically significant with respect to p-value 0.0082. 
Group Formulation Effect on Pharmacokinetic Parameters: 
Clopidogrel 
Group*Formulation effect was found statistically insignificant for Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-inf on ln-transformed 
data for Clopidogrel. 
Clopidogrel carboxylic acid 
Group*Formulation effect was found statistically insignificant for Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-inf on ln-transformed 
data for Clopidogrel carboxylic acid. 
ASA 
Group*Formulation effect was found statistically insignificant for Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-inf on ln-transformed 
data for Aspirin. 
Salicylic acid 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 40/50 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Group*Formulation effect was found statistically insignificant for Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-inf on ln-transformed 
data for Salicylic acid. 
Justification provided by the applicant for significant formulation effect: 
According to the Applicant, significant treatment effect or formulation effect can be present when the treatment 
mean square is small. Significant difference can occur at the moment the variability is low or the number of 
volunteers  sufficiently  high.  Significant  treatment  effect  or  formulation  effect  can  simply  be  ignored  as  the 
decision  of  equivalence  is  based  on  the  Schuirmann  test  and  the  90%  confidence  interval  is  within  the 
equivalence boundaries. 
Justification provided by the applicant for significant period effect: 
According  to  the  Applicant,  significant  period  effect  could  possibly  reflect  different  positioning,  timing  and 
degree of physical activity, timing and composition of food/beverages ingested, or the temperature of the water 
administered in the two periods. The conditions were maintained similar for both the periods; therefore it seems 
none of these are applicable in this study. However, it is possible that the psychological status of the subjects 
differed between the two periods, which may in turn effect on concentration data. The plasma samples of each 
subject  of  both  the  periods  are  analyzed  all  together  and  in  a  sequence  in  which  the  blood  samples  were 
collected. So there are very less chance of having analytical error. Also in each period both the products were 
dosed (Test and Reference), so period effect is not expected to influence the comparison of both the products 
using 90% confidence interval. 
Missing sampling details 
Selection of PK parameters, statistical evaluation of the PK parameters and the acceptance ranges for 
bioequivalence are in accordance with the bioequivalence guideline (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 Cor**). 
The statistical methods chosen are considered appropriate. 
No statistically significant group*formulation effect has been identified for Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-inf on ln-
transformed data for clopidogrel, ASA, clopidogrel carboxylic acid and salicylic acid. 
A period effect with high statistical significance has been identified. With respect to the justification of the 
period effect provided by the Applicant, the psychological status of the subjects cannot be considered as a 
very likely reason for the effect observed. However, period effects have been observed for both the test and 
the reference product at the same time and are of limited relevance for the Bioequivalence conclusion. 
No pre-dose levels of clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylic acid, ASA and SA are observed before period 2 drug 
administration indicating an adequate washout period. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 41/50 
  
  
 
 
No subject reached Cmax at the first sample time, indicating that the sampling period is adequate. 
Concentration time profiles (linear and semi-log) of clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylic acid, ASA and salicylic 
acid for each subject except for subject 46 and 67 are presented. 
Based on the Clinical Study Report, subject 55 had two missing samples at 0.666 hours and 0.833 hours 
post-dose after treatment with the test product with no missing values affecting Cmax/Tmax for the reference 
product. Clarification about these two missing samples should be provided as no reference to it is made in 
the Protocol Deviations. Assessment of the importance of the data points from individual plasma 
concentration time curves suggests an imbalance in potentially relevant missing Cmax/Tmax points between 
test and reference. Thus, the pharmacokinetic profiles obtained for this subject are not adequately 
characterized for both Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. Therefore, the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis should be redone removing this subject. The requested statistical analysis for the pivotal parameters 
Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ with exclusion of subject no. 55 were provided by the Applicant during the 
evaluation. The results obtained demonstrated that the point estimate and 90%CI fall within the 
bioequivalence range 80-125%. Therefore, it can be concluded that bioequivalence between the test and 
reference medicinal products has been demonstrated with and without inclusion of that subject (no 55 
initially included from this analysis).  
Inconsistency in reporting have been found for AUC0-inf untransformed data of ASA between one appendix and 
the clinical study report: measures of bioequivalence – untransformed AUC0-inf; Geometric Least Square 
Means for Reference was reported as 1296.857 in the appendix while in the clinical study report it was 
reported 1300.028. The Applicant provided the requested clarification regarding differences in the reported 
value of ASA for AUC0-inf reference product between the appendix and the clinical study report. The reported 
Arithmetic Least square means (untransformed) and arithmetic mean values for AUC0-inf of ASA analyte were 
different for reference product due to unbalance reason as the elimination rate could not be estimated for 
subject no-14 in period-1. Any remaining doubts regarding inconsistency in reporting the data were thus 
resolved. The response provided by the applicant was considered acceptable.  
Safety data 
76 subjects were dosed in period-1 and 74 subjects in period-2 with a washout period of 9 days in group-I 
and 7 days washout period in group-II between the dosing days as per the randomization schedule. 
Two subjects withdrew; one subject withdrew due to personal reasons and other subject was dismissed from 
the study before period 2 check-in due to positive test in UDS test.  
There were no deaths and other serious adverse events and withdrawals due to (adverse events) AE over the 
course of the study. No new safety concerns related to administered formulations were reported during the 
conduct of this study. Adverse events observed in this study were in line with the known safety profile of the 
reference product. 
Both the formulations were very well tolerated during the conduct of the study. Clinically significant changes 
were observed during post study safety assessment for five subjects, who received either test or reference 
products. The reported post study adverse events were mild in severity and possibly related to the study 
drug (Test or Reference). The case report forms for these 5 subjects were provided by the Applicant during 
the evaluation and upon review, no further concern was raised.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 42/50 
  
  
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study, Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan 75/75 mg and 75/100 
mg film-coated tablets is considered bioequivalent with DuoPlavin 75/75 mg and 75/100 mg film-coated 
tablets. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support the application, the Applicant submitted a review of clinical data as well as one bioequivalence 
study. 
The bioequivalence study was designed as a randomized, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-
sequence, single-dose, crossover bioequivalence study to compare the bioavailability of 2 formulations of 
clopidogrel, clopidogrel carboxylic acid and ASA (75mg/100 mg) under fasting conditions.  
The reference and test products are acceptable.  
A signed statement confirming that the test product has the same quantitative composition and is 
manufactured by the same process as the one submitted for authorisation is provided. 
76 healthy, adult, human subjects (Asian) were enrolled in accordance with protocol. The study was 
conducted in two groups and in each group, the subjects received one tablet of either test or reference 
product randomly as per the randomization schedule under fasting conditions. A 9 days washout separated 
each period in group-I and 7 days washout separated each period in group-II. 74 subjects completed the 
study were included in pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. From Group II, 2 subjects withdrawn (subject 
number 46 & 67) prior dosing in period 2. The reason of the withdrawal is acceptable. Case Report Form for 
subjects No.: 46 and 67 were provided in Day 180 response to the Rapporteur’s request. 
With regard to validation of the bioanalytical method, the Applicant provided some clarifications during the 
evaluation which were considered satisfactory. During the evaluation, the Applicant was requested to 
demonstrate the lack of occurrence of a potential back-conversion of clopidogrel carboxylic acid metabolite to 
the parent-drug (unchanged clopidogrel). The experimental data obtained and presented by the Applicant 
during the evaluation demonstrated that samples of clopidogrel spiked with therapeutically relevant 
concentrations of the clopidogrel carboxylic acid do not undergo back-conversion to the metabolite to the 
parent compound. This was demonstrated for all conditions that occurred throughout the sample collection, 
processing, analysis and storage. Thus, there is no impact on the reported concentrations for the study and 
the reported concentrations are valid, reliable and reproducible. 
A discrepancy noted between the Applicant’s Bioanalytical study report C18156_CLO and selectivity 
experiment was resolved. Missing certificate of analysis for all the reference standards were provided by the 
Applicant during the evaluation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 43/50 
  
  
The statistical software and method used for the pharmacokinetic analyses are considered acceptable. The 
ANOVA model used is adequate for a bioequivalence study.  
The pharmacokinetics parameters measured/calculated are standard for a single-dose study. They are 
acceptable and according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 
Rev. 1/ Corr **). 
Based on the Clinical Study Report, subject 55 had two missing samples at 0.666 hours and 0.833 hours 
post-dose after treatment with the test product with no missing values affecting Cmax/Tmax for the 
reference product. Clarification about these two missing samples should be provided as no reference to it is 
made in the Protocol Deviations. Assessment of the importance of the data points from individual plasma 
concentration time curves suggests an imbalance in potentially relevant missing Cmax/Tmax points between 
test and reference. Thus, the pharmacokinetic profiles obtained for this subject are not adequately 
characterized for both Clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. Therefore, the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis should be redone removing this subject. The requested statistical analysis for the pivotal parameters 
Cmax AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ with exclusion of subject no. 55 were provided by the Applicant during the 
evaluation. The results obtained demonstrated that the point estimate and 90%CI fall within the 
bioequivalence range 80-125%. Therefore, it can be concluded that bioequivalence between the test and 
reference medicinal products has been demonstrated with and without inclusion of that subject (no 55 
initially included from this analysis).  
Inconsistency in reporting have been found for AUC0-inf untransformed data of ASA between one appendix 
and the clinical study report: measures of bioequivalence – untransformed AUC0-inf; Geometric Least Square 
Means for Reference was reported as 1296.857 in the appendix while in the clinical study report it was 
reported 1300.028. The Applicant provided the requested clarification regarding differences in the reported 
value of ASA for AUC0-inf reference product between the appendix and the clinical study report. The reported 
Arithmetic Least square means (untransformed) and arithmetic mean values for AUC0-inf of ASA analyte were 
different for reference product due to unbalance reason as the elimination rate could not be estimated for 
subject no-14 in period-1. Any remaining doubts regarding inconsistency in reporting the data were thus 
resolved. The response provided by the applicant was considered acceptable.  
With regard to the safety data, adverse events observed in this study were in line with the known safety 
profile of the reference product. The two formulations were very well tolerated during the conduct of the 
study.  
The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all 
contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00% for both clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
The Applicant applied for a biowaiver for the 75 m/75 mg strength. The in vivo bioequivalence study for the 
lowest strength of 75mg/75 mg can be waived as long as all biowaiver criteria are fulfilled. The (a)- (c) 
criteria defined in the BE guideline are fullfilled as the pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the 
same manufacturing process, the qualitative composition of the different strengths is the same and the 
composition of the strengths are quantitatively proportional. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 44/50 
  
  
 
 
In the case of the criterion (d) of the BE Guideline, the Applicant has provided comparative dissolution data. 
The dissolution profile data was generated for test batches of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75 
mg/75 mg and 75 mg/100 mg in different pH conditions like 0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer, pH 6.8 
phosphate buffer and release media. The similarity factor (f2 value) were calculated between bio-batch and 
lower strength batch. The bootstrap calculation method is used for calculation of similarity factor as higher 
RSD was observed in one buffer for one of the drug substance. Both batches express similar dissolution 
profile for both Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic acid across the pH range of 1.2 to 6.8. 
However, concerning the dissolution methodology, the selected rotation speed instead of 50rpm which seems 
to result in a rapid drug release, typically leading to a reduced discriminating power of the dissolution test. 
According to the BE Guideline the usual rotation speed used with paddle-apparatus II is 50 rpm. 
The Applicant satisfactorily justified the selection of agitation speed for this product instead of 50 rpm. New 
comparative dissolution study results between the lower strength (75/75 mg) and bio-strength (75/100mg) 
of the test product at rotation speed of 50 rpm in QC release media were provided. The dissolution study 
results generated at agitation speed of 50 rpm showed incomplete drug release after 45 min and higher % 
RSD in the earlier time points for both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid. Whereas less variability and 
complete release was observed for clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid at selected agitation speed. However, 
calculation of f2-values in the case above is not allowed as the RSD values at the early time points were too 
high. The Applicant has performed the bootstrapping for calculation of similarity factor for the dissolution 
profiles at agitation speed of 50 rpm where the RSD value is found to be higher at the early time points. The 
summary of bootstrap analysis and similarity factor calculation for dissolution profiles at agitation speed of 50 
rpm in different mediums showed that f2 was more than 50 but lower limit (5th percentile) of the 90% CI of 
f2 was observed to be slightly less than 50 for some of the dissolution profiles of Clopidogrel and 
Acetylsalicylic acid. 
Furthermore, the Applicant provided the requested photographs for visual observation of dissolution of 
Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75/75mg and 75/100 mg at both 50 & selected rpm. The 
presented photographs show unstirred contents (coning) at bottom of dissolution vessel at 50 rpm whereas 
less unstirred contents is observed at selected rpm after 20 min, 30 min and 45 min. Thus, the selection of 
agitation speed of 75 rpm for in vitro dissolution tests is considered appropriate. 
However, after reviewing dissolution profiles comparisons for clopidogrel, it was noted that the 90% 
confidence interval of the f2 obtained from the bootstrap method was not reported in the presented 
documentations. The Applicant provided the requested similarity factor calculation including 90% confidence 
interval for bootstrap statistical evaluation of dissolution profiles for one of the drug component.  
In order to justify the exclusion of the first sampling time point, the Applicant provided during the evaluation 
results of disintegration time observed at compression stage (un-coated) of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic 
acid tablets. The above data indicated that core tablets of both strengths are having a longer disintegration 
time. Taking into consideration that clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablet is a bilayer tablet which consists 
of two separate layers of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid and having a longer disintegration time and the 
higher variability in dissolving of film coating layers in earlier time points of dissolution profile study will not 
have any impact on in-vivo performance of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid, the exclusion of the first 
sampling point  is considered justified. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 45/50 
  
  
 
 
Furthermore, the Applicant performed during the evaluation the dissolution profile study for two other pilot 
scale batches of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid tablets 75/75 mg and clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
tablets 75/100 mg. Comparison of dissolution profiles shows that the above batches of both strengths 
express similar dissolution profiles to that of bio batch (BEQ) for both active substances. However, the 
Applicant performed dissolution testing with the selected agitation speed which is not adequately justified.  
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
The Applicant committed to perform comparative dissolution profile on the production scale batches of 
Clopidogrel and Acetylsalicylic Acid 75mg/75mg and 75mg/100mg film-coated tablets. The results will be 
provided at a Competent Authority’s request or if the dissolution profiles are not similar together with 
proposed action. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the submitted bioequivalence study, Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic Acid Mylan 75/75 mg and 75/100 
mg film-coated tablets can be considered bioequivalent with the reference product DuoPlavin 75/75 mg and 
75/100 mg film-coated tablets. Approval of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic Acid Mylan can be supported from a 
clinical point of view. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP, version 1.2: 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
none 
none 
none 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities are planned. Routine pharmacovigilance activities are sufficient to 
minimise the risks of the product. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No additional risk minimisation measures are planned. Routine risk minimisation measures are sufficient to 
manage the safety concerns of the medicinal product. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 46/50 
  
  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of clopidogrel/acetylsalicylic acid film-coated tablets. The 
reference product DuoPlavin is indicated for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult 
patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). DuoPlavin is a fixed-dose combination 
medicinal product for continuation of therapy in: 
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention  
•  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available non-
clinical information for the active substances clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid was presented and 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the 
applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was 
considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a randomized, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, 
two-sequence, single-dose, crossover design to compare the bioavailability of 2 formulations of clopidogrel, 
clopidogrel carboxylic acid and ASA (75mg/100 mg) under fasting conditions. The study design was 
considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective 
European requirements.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 47/50 
  
  
Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The 
analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 75/100 mg film-coated tablets met the protocol-
defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared with the DuoPlavin 75/100 mg film-coated tablets. The 
point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all 
contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00% for both clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is favourable in the following indication: 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Mylan is indicated for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
adult patients already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Mylan is a fixed-dose combination medicinal product for continuation of therapy in: 
•  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention  
•  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic therapy  
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 48/50 
  
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 49/50 
  
  
 
 
Appendix 
N/A 
Assessment report  
EMA/7091/2020 
Page 50/50 
  
  
