EMA/971273/2011  
EMEA/H/C/1137 
EPAR summary for the public 
Clopidogrel Krka d.d.1 
clopidogrel 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Clopidogrel Krka d.d. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Clopidogrel Krka d.d. 
What is Clopidogrel Krka d.d.? 
Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is a medicine that contains the active substance clopidogrel. It is available as 
pink, round tablets (75 mg). 
Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Plavix. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Clopidogrel Krka d.d. used for? 
Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is used in adults to prevent atherothrombotic events (problems caused by blood 
clots and hardening of the arteries). Clopidogrel Krka d.d. can be given to the following groups of 
patients: 
 
patients who have recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Clopidogrel Krka d.d. can be 
started between a few days and 35 days after the attack; 
 
patients who have had a recent ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by failure of the blood supply to 
part of the brain). Clopidogrel Krka d.d. can be started between seven days and six months after 
the stroke; 
 
patients with peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries). 
1 Previously known as Zopya.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Clopidogrel Krka d.d. used? 
The standard dose of Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is one 75 mg tablet once a day, taken with or without food. 
How does Clopidogrel Krka d.d. work? 
The active substance in Clopidogrel Krka d.d., clopidogrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This 
means that it helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special 
cells in the blood called platelets aggregating (sticking together). Clopidogrel stops the platelets 
aggregating by blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a special receptor on their surface. 
This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to 
prevent another heart attack or stroke. 
How has Clopidogrel Krka d.d. been studied? 
Because Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Plavix. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Clopidogrel Krka d.d.? 
Because Clopidogrel Krka d.d. is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefit and risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has Clopidogrel Krka d.d. been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Clopidogrel Krka d.d. has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Plavix. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Plavix, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Clopidogrel 
Krka d.d. be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Clopidogrel Krka d.d. 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Zopya on 21 
September 2009. The name of the medicine was changed to Clopidogrel Krka d.d. on 18 May 2011. 
The full EPAR for Clopidogrel Krka d.d. can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Clopidogrel Krka d.d., read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2011. 
Clopidogrel Krka d.d.F  
EMA/971273/2011  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
