European Medicines Agency 
Doc. Ref.:EMEA/506810/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Clopidogrel MYLAN 
International Nonproprietary Name: clopidogrel  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001134  
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects ..................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 13 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 14 
2/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
Mylan  S.A.S  submitted  on  20  February  2009  an  application  for  Marketing  Authorisation  to  the 
European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Clopidogrel MYLAN , in accordance with the centralised 
procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under  Article  3  (3)  – 
‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 15-07-1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)   Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006aEU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 15-07-1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)   Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006aEU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
(cid:131)   Member State of source: Germany 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Pr Philippe Lechat 
Scientific Advice: 
 The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 20 February 2009.  
The  procedure  started  on  25  March  2009.  The  timelines  were  aligned  with  the  re-start  of  the 
Clopidogrel Krka procedure after the submission of the responses to the D120 LoQ. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  12 May 2009   
During the CHMP meeting on 26 – 29 May 2009, the CHMP agreed on a List of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of outstanding issues on 
03 June 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on  11 June 2009.  
During the meeting on  22-25 June 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Clopidogrel MYLAN on 25 June 2009. The applicant provided the 
letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  17  June 
2009. 
4/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
2. 
 SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Clopidorel MYLAN 75
s clopidogrel hydrochloride as active substance. 
a
 mg film coated tablets is a generic medicinal product containing clopidogrel 
The  reference  medicinal  product  is  Plavix  75 
h
ydrogensulphate.  
mg  film-coated  tablets,  which  contain  clopidogrel 
-competitive inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) at the platelet receptors. 
Clopidogrel is a non
he  effect  of  ADP  on  platelets  is  mediated  by  two  G-protein  coupled  P2Y  receptors  (P2Y1  and 
T
P2Y12) and the cation channel-coupled P2X1 receptor. The adenylate cyclase-coupled ADP receptor 
P2Y12 is the main target of clopidogrel and lead to inhibition of platelet activation, aggregation, and 
Gp  IIb/IIIa  receptor  activation.  Clopidogrel  is  a  thienopyridine  and  only  the  S-enantiomer  is 
pharmacologically active. 
file of clopidogrel has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
The safety and efficacy pro
hich  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Plavix.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
w
experience  contributing  to  the  knowledge  of  the  clinical  use  of  this  product.  Clopidogrel  MYLAN 
75mg  film-coated  tablet  contains  clopidogrel  hydrochloride.  Since  this  application  is  a  generic 
application  referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix,  summary  of  the  clinical  data  of 
clopidogrel  hydrogensulphate  is  available  and  no  new  clinical  studies  regarding  pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride.  
The  indication  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  is  different  from  the  reference  medicinal  product
p
art of the indication approved for the reference medicinal product. 
.  It  is 
The therapeutic indication of Clopidogrel MYLAN is: 
C
•   Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few day
lopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
s until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial dis
ease. 
e therapeutic indication of Plavix is:  
lopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
Th
C
• Patients suffering from myocardial infa
rction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disea
se.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-
wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients u
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
 ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in me
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
ndergoing a stent placement following 
dically 
-
2.2  Q
uality aspects 
Introduction 
  presented  as  film  coated  tablets  containing  83,5   mg of clopidogrel hydrochloride as 
The  product  is
ctive substance corresponding to 75 mg of clopidogrel. 
a
Other ingredients are: 
Tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  crospovidone,  macrogol  6000, 
hydrogenated castor oi
Film coating: hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171), red iron oxide (E172), talc and propylene glycol 
The film coated tablets are packed in blisters of OPA/Al/PVC-Al. 
l 
5/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
Clopidogrel hydrochloride is a white to off-white or yellowish crystalline powder practically insoluble 
 water at neutral pH but freely soluble at pH = 1. It is also freely dissolves in methanol. Clopidogrel 
in
hydrochloride  has  the  chemical  name  (+)-(S)-Methyl  α-(o-chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c] 
pyridine-5(4H)-acetate hydrochloride. It does not show polymorphism. The active substance has one 
chiral  centre  therefore  it  exhibits  chirality  –  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  is  synthesized  as  the  S-
enantiomer. 
• 
Manufacture 
loride is synthesised by three alternative routes from four key starting materials. 
Clopidogrel hydroch
he manufacturing process consists of three stages: the synthesis of clopidogrel free base (stage 1), 
T
purification of clopidogrel (stage 2) and crystallisation of clopidogrel hydrochloride (stage 3). The 
active substance is manufactured in two manufacturing sites.  
ufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The 
Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  man
pecifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
s
been presented and are satisfactory. 
• 
Specification 
  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  solubility  (Ph.  Eur),  identification 
The  active  substance
R, chlorides), loss of drying (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), sulphated ash 
(I
(Ph. Eur), related substances (UPLC, HPLC), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), assay (HPLC), particle size 
(laser diffraction).   
flect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
sed in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are in accordance with the 
The specifications re
u
ICH Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Batch analysis results (n=16) for active substance manufactured according to all alternat
b
y all manufacturers confirm consistency and uniformity. 
ive methods 
• 
Stability 
tudies  have  been  carried  out  on  three  batches  of  active  substance  manufactured 
.The  stability  s
ccording to all alternative methods by all manufacturers at long-term conditions (25°C/60 % RH) and 
a
at accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) packed into drums containing the primary translucent LDPE 
bag and the secondary laminated bag made of PET/Al/PE foil. Photostability studies have also been 
carried out.  
The stability samples have been stored in a mini-size simulation of the original packing.  
Parameters  tested 
enantiomeric purity, assay and identification.  
during  stabilities  studies  are  appearance,  loss  on  drying,  related  substance, 
hydrolysis, oxidation and to acid hydrolysis at elevated 
mperature. Practically no degradation occurs when clopidogrel hydrochloride is placed at solid state 
Clopidogrel hydrochloride is sensitive to basic 
te
under elevated temperature. 
6/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed re-test period is justified based on the stability results when the active substance is 
stored in the original packing material. 
M
edicinal Product 
•
Pharmaceutical Development 
he product has been developed with the objective of developing a conventional release film coated 
T
tablet  bioequivalent  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix.  It  represents  an  alternative  to  the 
reference medicinal product since it contains the same active substance (clopidogrel base) different in 
the salt (hydrochloride instead of bisulphate) with the same dosage strength and dosage form. 
olubility,  particle  size  and  stability  of  the  active  substance  were  taken  into  consideration  during 
S
development.  A  number  of  studies  were  also  carried  out  to  define  the  compatibility  of  the  active 
substance  with  the  pharmaceutical  excipients  used.  A  thermoplastic  based  granulation  has  been 
selected  as  manufacturing  process  especially  in  view  of  safety  and  environmental  issues  and  it 
provides  good  reproducibility  and  scale-up.  The  chosen  pharmaceutical  form,  film  coating,  is 
necessary especially for taste masking. 
he  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  tablet  core
:  microcrystalline  cellulose  (diluent),  colloidal 
T
anhydrous silica (glidant), crospovidone (disintegrant) , macrogol 6000 (binder), hydrogenated castor 
oil  (lubricant).  Film  coating:  hypromellose  (film  coating  agent),  titanium  dioxide  (E171)  (opacifer), 
red iron oxide (E172), talc (antiadhesion agent) and propylene glycol (platicizer). All excipients used 
are in compliance with the Ph Eur. with the exception of the colouring agent. The methods used for 
the control of red iron oxide are described. None of the excipients are of human or animal origin. 
The  film  coated  tablets  are  packed  in  blisters  consisting  in  OPA/Al/PVC  film  and  heat  sealing 
aluminium foil. Supplier statement is provided confirming that the PVC film complies with the PhEur 
and the aluminium film conforms to the EU Directives. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
he manufacturing process includes a non-standard thermoplastic granulation. Main steps are mixing, 
T
granulation with polymer, sieving, mixing with additives into compression mixture, tabletting and film 
coating. 
he  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
T
manufacturing  process  on  commercial  batch  size  and  on  both  manufacturing  sites  claimed.  The 
applicant commits to validate the bigger batch size claimed. As the batch size increase do not affect 
the  validation  of  the  non-standard  granulation  step  (increase  of  sub-batches  number)  this  was 
accepted..  
The batch a
to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
nalysis data show that the film coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according 
•
Product Specification 
he  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  uniformity  of  dosage 
T
(Ph Eur), identification of clopidogrel (HPLC, TLC), identification of titanium dioxide, identification 
of  iron  oxides,  related  substances,  enantiomeric  purity,  dissolution,  assay  (HPLC),  microbiological 
purity (Ph Eur) and water content (Ph Eur).    
egradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
D
toxicology studies. 
D
egradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
7/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  tests  and  limits  for  the  finished  product  are  appropriate  to  control  the  quality  of  the  finished 
product for their intended purpose  
Batch analysis data submitted confirm satisfactory uniformity of the finished product at release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Three pilot batches of the finished product packed in the intended container and closure system were 
included on stability studies under ICH conditions..  The batches were tested for appearance, water , 
disintegration, hardness , related substances, enantiomeric purity, dissolution of clopidogrel, assay  
and microbiological tests. They were exposed to 25º C/60% RH for 12 months for and for 6 months at 
40°C/75%RH. 
Photostability tests have been performed in accordance with ICH guideline Q 1 B. Results showed that 
the  tablets  became  slightly  pale  and  the  colour  was  not  homogeneous,  which  confirms  the 
requirements for the storage of the product in the original package. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
Clopidogrel  is  widely  used  well-known  substance.  Its  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological  properties  are  well  characterised.  This  generic  application  contains  a  different  salt 
(clopidogrel  hydrochloride)  of  the  active  substance  used  in  the  reference  product  (clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate).  A  summary  of  the  literature  information  on  non-clinical  data  of  clopidogrel  and 
the  results  of  two  new  non-clinical  studies  (acute  and  chronic  toxicity)  conducted  with  clopidogrel 
hydrochloride  were  provided.  Furthermore,  on  the  basis  of  the  CHMP  Guidance  for  users  of  the 
centralised  procedure  for  generic  application  (EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006),  when  different  salts  of 
the  active  substance  of  the  reference  medicinal  product  are  used,  additional  information  providing 
proof  that  their  non-clinical  safety  and/or  efficacy  profile  is  not  different  from  that  of  the  reference 
medicinal  product  is  needed.  Thus,  information  that  the  different  clopidogrel  salt  (clopidogrel 
hydrochloride)  does  not  differ  significantly  in  non-clinical  properties  with  regards  to  safety  and 
efficacy  of  the  reference  product  were  requested  by  the  CHMP  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
guideline.  
The  response  referred  to  the  results  of  the  toxicity  and  genotoxicity  studies  to  examine  the  safety 
profile  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  vs  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate.  The  repeated  dose  toxicity 
study  reports  were  in  accordance  with  GLP  standards  and  regulatory  guidelines  (please  see  section 
Toxicology).  The  13-week  toxicity  study  report  did  not  detect  major  differences  in  the  same  safety 
profile for the hydrochloride and hydrogen sulphate salt; liver was determined as the target organ in 
both  salts.  Regarding  the  genotoxicity  testing,  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  tested  at  a  higher 
concentration  level  than  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate,  turned  to  be  not  clastogenic  in  the 
chromosome  aberration  test.  In  the  micronucleus  test,  at  the  same  dose  levels,  neither  the  hydrogen 
sulphate  salt  nor  the  hydrochloride  salt  was  found  clastogenic/aneugenic.  Thus,  based  on  the  data 
provided,  similar  safety  profile  was  demonstrated  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  and  clopidogrel 
hydrogen sulphate.  
8/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Two new non-clinical studies were conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride. 
Single-dose toxicity 
The acute toxicity study on rats was performed with clopidogrel hydrochloride. Results of single dose 
toxicity  studies  in  rats  revealed  low  toxicity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  at  doses  10,  100,  1000 
mg/kg.  No  clinical  signs  of  toxicity  and  mortality  were  reported  in  rats  after  the  administration  of 
drug. No significant differences in body weight gain were seen between the control and treated groups. 
At  terminal  necropsy,  no  apparent  macroscopic  changes  attributed  to  clopidogrel  hydrochloride 
administration  were  observed  in  any  animal.  The  majority  of  tissue  was  macroscopically 
unremarkable. LD50 values were over 1500mg /kg for both sexes. 
After a single oral administration of clopidogrel in mice, rats and baboons, toxicity occurred only at 
very high doses and the target organs were mainly the gastrointestinal tract, the kidney and the lung. 
The oral LD50 values of clopidogrel were over 2 g/kg in all species.  
Repeated-dose toxicity 
The  toxicity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  investigated  in  rats  upon  daily  oral  administration  by 
gastric gavage for 13 consecutive weeks. The study was conducted with four groups of 10 males and 
10 females each versus one vehicle control group and 3 test groups receiving 12.5, 125 or 250 mg/kg 
body weight/day. Treatment with clopidogrel hydrochloride was generally well tolerated, based on the 
lack of treatment related clinical signs and the normal growth of the animals. Some treatment related 
changes  in  haematology,  e.g.  thrombocytes,  and  clinical  chemistry,  e.g.  cholesterol,  triglycerides, 
bilirubin,  total  protein,  etc.,  were  revealed.  Decreased  thymus  weights,  increased  adrenal,  kidney, 
seminal vesicles and liver weights and hypertrophy of centrilobular hepatocytes were also observed. 
The  no-observed-adverse-effect  level  (NOAEL)  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  considered  12.5 
mg/kg body weight/day. There appears to be no additional toxic effects of clopidogrel hydrochloride 
although  no  direct  comparative  data  between  the  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  and  clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate  were  provided.  Furthermore,  any  potential  differences  in  the  non-clinical 
toxicokinetic  profile  would  be  apparent  in  the  clinical  pharmacokinetic  profile  addressed  by  the 
bioequivalence studies. 
Genotoxicity 
The  in  vitro  Salmonella  typhimurium  reverse  mutation  assays  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was 
performed  and  revealed  evidence  that  clopidogrel  did  not  induce  effects  at  either  the  gene  or 
chromosome  levels.  In  Ames  test  of  clopidogrel’s  main  metabolite  S-carboxylic  acid  derivative  was 
also  negative.  The  eventual  mutagenic  activity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  investigated  in  the 
bacterial reverse mutation assay with Salmonella typhimurium strains TA97a, TA98, TA100, TA 1535 
and  TA102,  without  and  with  metabolic  activation.  The  tested  substance  was  considered  non 
mutagenic. Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in micronucleus test in mice. Incidence of micronucleated 
polychromatic red blood cells (RBs) was not elevated in mice received clopidogrel at oral doses up to 
2000 mg/kg daily, for three consecutive days. Ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic RBCs was 
also  normal  which  indicates  that  there  was  no  bone  marrow  cytotoxicity.  There  was  no  evidence  of 
any clastogenic activity for clopidogrel. 
Although  the  in  vitro  studies  did  not  reveal  any  mutagenic,  genotoxic  or  clastogenic  potential  of 
clopidogrel, the CHMP raised a major objection with respect to the studies on impurities, which did do 
not  follow  recommendations  of  the  OECD  guideline,  protocol  471  (OECD,  1997,  Test  Guideline 
47:Bacterial  Reverse  Mutation  Test.  In:  OECD  Guideline  for  Testing  of  Chemicals.  Paris, 
Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  &  Development)  and  of  the  Question  &  Answers  on  the 
CHMP  guideline  on  the  limits  of  genotoxic  impurities  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/431994/2007).    In 
response, adequately conducted reverse mutation assays in accordance with GLP standards and OECD 
guideline protocol number 471 was provided. The results of the Ames test performed with potassium 
ethyl  sulphate  and  clopidogrel  isopropyl  sulphate  indicated  that  these  two  substances  do  not  hold  a 
mutagenic  potential.  Thus,  the  content  limit  for  monoalkylsulphates  as  proposed  by  the  applicant  is 
acceptable to the CHMP. 
9/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction  of  the  product  onto  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  increase  in  the 
combined sales volumes for all clopidorel hydrogensulphate products, and would thus not be expected 
to have an adverse effect upon the environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP Guideline 
on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a 
formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of one bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
The bioequivalence study provided in support of the application was performed by CROs in Canada. 
A statement was provided that the clinical part of these studies was conducted according to the ICH 
Note for Guidance on Good Clinical Practices.  
During  the  evaluation  of  the  dossier,  the  CHMP  considered  that  in  the  view  of  the  reported 
discrepancies that occurred during clopidogrel plasma analysis, it was necessary to inspect the conduct 
of  the  bioequivalence  study  07-197.  The  results  of  this  triggered  inspection  and  the  satisfactory 
responses to its findings are an integral part of the procedure.  
Clinical studies 
One  bioequivalence  study  comparing  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  75  mg  film  coated  tablets  with  the 
originator Plavix 75 mg film-coated tablets was provided. The study was performed in fasting subjects 
and  measured  the  parent  drug  and  the  major  (inactive)  metabolite,  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid.  In 
addition,  this  generic  product  contains  a  different  salt  of  clopidogrel  (clopidogrel  hydrochloride)  in 
comparison with the reference medicinal product. Thus, the CHMP raised a major concern, since on 
the  basis  of  the  CHMP  Guidance  for  users  of  the  centralised  procedure  for  generic  application 
(EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), when different salts of the active substance of the reference medicinal 
product are used, additional information providing proof that their safety and/or efficacy profile is not 
different from that of the reference medicinal product is needed. 
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Study code: 07-197 
Comparative,  randomised,  single-dose,  2-way  crossover  bioavailability  study  of  clopidogrel  75  mg 
film-coated  tablets  (test)  and  Plavix  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  (reference)  in  healthy  adult  male 
volunteers under fasting conditions 
The objective of this study was to assess the single-dose relative bioavailability of clopidogrel 75 mg 
film-coated tablets (KRKA, d.d.) and Plavix 75 mg clopidogrel film-coated tablets (Sanofi-Synthelabo 
Limited), under fasting conditions. This was an open-label, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover, 
2-sequence,  comparative  bioavailability  study  performed  on  volunteers  A  total  of  92  subjects 
completed  the  clinical  phase  of  the  study.  Single  oral  75  mg  clopidogrel  doses  were  separated  by  a 
washout  period  of  14  days.  The  protocol  and  informed  consent  forms  (ICFs)  were  reviewed  and 
approved  by  an  Institutional  Review  Board  (IRB)  convening  in  October  and  November  2007.  The 
study was conducted between 1 December and 22 December 2007. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
10/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by KRKA, d.d. Novo Mesto, Slovenia, batch 
1232 01 I068 1007. 
Plavix 75 mg tablets manufactured by Sanofi-Synthelabo, United-Kingdom, batch 600711. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
A  total  of  96  healthy,  non-smoking,  adult  male  volunteers  aged  18-55  years  and  with  BMI  18.00  –
28.00 kg/m2 were included in the study. These were medically healthy subjects with clinically normal 
laboratory  profiles,  vital  signs  and  ECGs.  Of  the  96  subjects,  4  subjects  were  withdrawn  or 
discontinued. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the analysis. Adequate inclusion and 
exclusion  criteria  were  followed.  The  choice  of  the  selected  population  in  this  clinical  trial  was 
considered appropriate.  
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The plasma samples were assayed for clopidogrel and its carboxylic acid metabolite using LC/MS/MS 
method. The analytical technique was initially validated at CRO in Canada, and transferred afterward 
another  CRO  in  Canada.  A  partial  validation  was  conducted  successfully  in  order  to  allow  this 
transfer. However, there were insufficient data submitted with respect to the pre-study validation and 
validation  of  the  bio-analytical  technique  used  for  determination  of  clopidogrel,  and  the  CHMP 
questioned the validity of the bioequivalence study. Thus, a GCP inspection was requested. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The primary pharmacokinetic parameters defined in the protocol were AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and maximal 
plasma clopidogrel concentration Cmax. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was carried out on ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax for both 
analytes:  clopidogrel  and  the  main  inactive  metabolite.  A  non-parametric  test  was  carried  out  to 
compare  the  Tmax  values  between  treatments.  The  statistical  model  included  sequence,  period  and 
treatment factors as fixed effects and subject within sequence as random effect. The statistical methods 
used were acceptable.  
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  clopidogrel  (AUC  and  Cmax:  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD,  tmax:    median, 
range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
pg*h/ml 
2257.6 
(3482.8) 
1909.7 
(1575.7) 
[90;110]% 
100 % 
43.3 % 
AUC0-∞ 
pg*h/ml 
2579.1 
(3891.4) 
1983.4 
(1649.5) 
[87; 109]% 
98 % 
43.5 % 
Cmax 
pg/ml 
1106.7 
(873.3) 
981.4 
(1001) 
[84;108]% 
95 % 
54.6 % 
Test 
(S.D.) 
Reference 
(S.D.) 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point estimate 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
*log-transformed values 
time for maximum concentration : median, min and max  
tmax 
h 
1 
(0.33-16) 
1 
(0.33-5) 
11/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  (AUC  and  Cmax:  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD, 
tmax: median, range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
ng*h/ml 
6632.4 
(1372.7) 
6674.7 
(1435.9) 
[96;100]% 
98 % 
8.4 % 
AUC0-∞ 
ng*h/ml 
7105.8 
(1452.4) 
7229.6 
(1536.3) 
[97; 100]% 
98 % 
7.8 % 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
2545.7 
(873.3) 
2608.9 
(854.9) 
[91;104]% 
97 % 
26 % 
Test 
(S.D.) 
Reference 
(S.D.) 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point estimate 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
*log-transformed values 
time for maximum concentration : mediane, min and max  
tmax 
h 
0.685 
(0.5-3) 
0.775 
(1-5) 
The following acceptance criteria were set as per clinical study report:  
- 
- 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameters AUC0-t and AUCinf should be within 80-
125%. 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameter Cmax should be within 75-133%. 
The proposed 90% confidence intervals for AUCt and AUCinf are in line with the recommendation of 
the CHMP guideline CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 and the observed results of the clinical study 
fulfil  this  requirement.  However,  the  widening  of  the  limits  for  bioequivalence  conclusions  for  Cmax 
values, although not in line with the current CHMP recommendations, was not considered necessary 
since  the  Cmax  results  of  the  study  are  within  the  standard  80-125%  limits  required  by  the  NƒG  on 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  No  significant 
difference in Tmax was evidenced by the non parametric test. 
No serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported during this study. Overall, clopidogrel demonstrated 
a good safety profile. The risk of bleeding is the most important adverse effect of clopidogrel, which 
might be even increased when clopidogrel is concomitantly used with ASA.  No significant changes in 
the subjects' state of health were observed and it is believed that Clopidogrel Mylan 75 mg film coated 
tablet is safe when used according to the SmPC. 
From  the  96  subjects  included  in  the  study,  four  were  withdrawn  for  personal  reasons  or  non-
compliance. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the data set for statistical analysis. All 
withdrawn and discontinued subjects are documented and validity is justified.  
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  07-197,  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  is  considered 
bioequivalent with Plavix. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
There was no post-marketing data submitted by the Applicant for this product.. 
12/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is a wide postmarketing experience with clopidogrel. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Clopidogrel MYLAN should follow the PSUR submission 
schedule of the reference medicinal product. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described (version XY) by the applicant 
fulfils  the  legislative  requirements.    The  company  must  ensure  that  this  system  is  in  place  and 
functioning before the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
Risk Management Plan has not been submitted. Since the application concerns generics of respective 
reference  medicinal  products  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk  minimization 
activities have been identified, this considered acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
One clinical bioequivalence trial 07-197 was provided for Clopidogrel MYLAN application, analysing 
the  parent  prodrug  clopidogrel.  The  demonstration  of  the  unchanged  safety/efficacy  profile  of 
clopidogrel hydrochloride when compared with Plavix (clopidogrel hydrogensulphate) was raised by 
the  CHMP  as  a  major  issue  for  this  generic  product.  In  response,  further  discussion  on  the 
comparability  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  profiles  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  and  clopidogrel 
hydrochloride  was  provided.  Pharmacokinetics,  dissolution, adverse events profile and other clinical 
data  were  considered  and  it  was  concluded  that  the  two  salts  of  clopidogrel  have  a  comparable 
safety/efficacy profile. 
At  the  time  of  approval  of  the  reference  product  Plavix,  there  was  no  reliable  and  validated 
methodology  for  the  determination  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  parent  prodrug  clopidogrel,  or  of 
the active metabolite clopidogrel thiol. Thus, the pharmacokinetic profile was established based on the 
pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel carboxylic acid, which is the non-active metabolite.  In the meantime, 
a reliable bioanalytical method for determination of clopidogrel in plasma and urine was developed. 
Since  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  active  metabolite  is  still  not  well  established,  the  CHMP 
accepted the proof of bioequivalence based on the clopidogrel parent compound data in study 07-197. 
Thus,  data  related  to  pharmacokinetics  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  are  considered  supportive, 
whereas data on clopidogrel parent drug is important for the confirmation of bioequivalence. 
The  indication  of  Clopidogrel  MYLAN  is  different  from  that  of  the  reference  medicinal  product, 
Plavix (please see section 2.1). Thus, the Product Information has been adequately amended to reflect 
this change and this is considered acceptable.  
Furthermore, the recently published literature data indicate that the bioavailability of a single oral dose 
of clopidogrel and the pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel, especially Cmax and AUCinf, might 
be  increased  by  several  folds  in  the  fed  condition  compared  to  the  fasted  condition.  The  currently 
presented clinical studies were conducted in fasted state and thus, the CHMP requested a clarification 
of  this  approach  and  adequate  justification  why  bioequivalence  for  the  generic  product  should  be 
demonstrated only under fasting condition was provided. Bioequivalence studies in fasting conditions 
are  normally  recommended  as  mentioned  in  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and 
Bioequivalence  Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  document  as  the  drug  product  is  to  be 
administered  under  fasting  as  well  as  fed  conditions.  In  addition  to  the  dissolution  studies  using 
clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate,  conducted  at  three  different  pH  values  (1.2,  4.5,  6.8),  the  applicant 
13/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided an additional in vivo bioequivalence study conducted under fed conditions. The comparative 
in  vitro  dissolution  studies  under  conditions  mimicking  the  fed  state  as  well  the  fed  state 
bioequivalence  study  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  when  compared  to  the  reference  drug 
product. 
The  bio-analytical  technique  and  methodology  applied  in  the  analysis  of  the  samples  during  the 
bioequivalence  studies  included  validation  with  the  analysis  of  calibration  curves  and  controls  at 
various concentrations. The CHMP questioned whether there is a potential for back-conversion of the 
quantitatively  major  metabolite  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  the  parent  drug.  Considering  that  the 
plasma levels of clopidogrel carboxylic acid are considerably higher than those of the parent drug, a 
minimum back-conversion of the metabolite would lead to a significant over-estimation of clopidogrel 
plasma  levels  and  would  bias  the  outcome  of  the  bioequivalence  study.  The  back-conversion  could 
occur in the presence of alcohol used in sample preparation and analysis. It was, indeed, reported that 
a possible back-conversion of clopidogrel metabolite to clopidogrel parent drug was evidenced in the 
presence  of  methanol.  In  order  to  avoid  this  process,  the  extraction  procedure  was  changed  and 
methanol-free conditions employed. Although it has been indicated that stability tests were performed 
in  order  to  prove  the  reproducibility  and  accuracy  of  clopidogrel  concentration  measurements,  the 
CHMP  questioned  these  results  since  no  clear  description  of  the  analytical  technique  including 
extraction  procedure  actually  used  in  the  initial  pre-study  validation  process  was  provided. 
Information on the validation procedures in study 07-197 was requested by the CHMP. In response, 
details of the bio-analytical methodology and full validation details were provided demonstrating that 
no methanol, which is needed for the conversion the acid metabolite to clopidogrel, was used and thus, 
no  source  of  methylation  exists  within  the  entire  methodology,  including  all  solution  preparation, 
plasma  sample  processing,  handling  storage  and  LC-MS/MS  determination.  The  CHMP  considered 
this issue resolved. 
Considering  the  above  difficulties  in  the  determination  of  clopidogrel  in  plasma  especially  the  issue 
related  to  the  possible  back-conversion  of  the  metabolite  to  the  parent  drug,  a  triggered  GCP 
inspection  of  the  bioequivalence  study  was  requested  by  the  CHMP,  which  was  of  the  opinion  that 
results  of  this  inspection  and  the  satisfactory  responses  to  its  findings  were  an  integral  part  of  the 
evaluation procedure. The inspection identified major and minor findings that seem not to affect the 
overall results of the trial.  
The  bioequivalence  study  07-197  and  its  statistical  evaluation  were  in  accordance  with  accepted 
standards  for  bioequivalence  testing,  as  stated  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish 
bioavailability included the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximal plasma 
concentration  of  the  parent  compound  of  clopidogrel.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  these 
parameters  were  within  the  recommended  80-125%  range  for  clopidogrel,  required  by  the  above 
mentioned guideline. The proposed widening of the 90% confidence interval for clopidogrel Cmax to 
75%-133% was found to be unacceptable by the CHMP; nevertheless, since the confidence intervals 
for Cmax values of clopidogrel were within the required 80-125% range, the need for widening of the 
intervals was not applicable. The bioequivalence with Plavix was proven.  
•  User consultation 
The results of user consultation provided indicates that the Package leaflet is well structured and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
14/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Clopidogrel MYLAN in the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
•  Patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic  stroke  (from  7  days  until  less  than  6  months)  or  established  peripheral  arterial 
disease. 
was favourable  and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
15/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
