EMA/470138/2017  
EMEA/H/C/001056 
EPAR summary for the public 
Clopidogrel Krka 
clopidogrel 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Clopidogrel Krka. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Clopidogrel Krka. 
For practical information about using Clopidogrel Krka, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Clopidogrel Krka and what is it used for? 
Clopidogrel Krka is used to prevent problems caused by blood clots in adults who have: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Clopidogrel Krka can be started between a few 
days and 35 days after the attack; 
recently had an ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by failure of the blood supply to part of the brain). 
Clopidogrel Krka can be started between seven days and six months after the stroke; 
peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries); 
a condition known as ‘acute coronary syndrome’, when it should be given with aspirin (another 
medicine that prevents blood clots). Acute coronary syndrome is a group of heart problems that 
include heart attacks and unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain). Some of these patients 
may have had a stent (a short tube) placed in an artery to prevent it from closing up; 
atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the upper chambers of the heart), when it should 
be given with aspirin. It is used in those patients who have at least one risk factor for vascular 
events such as a heart attack or stroke, cannot take vitamin K antagonists (other medicines that 
prevent blood clots) and are at low risk of bleeding. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Clopidogrel Krka is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Clopidogrel Krka is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Plavix. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Clopidogrel Krka contains the active substance clopidogrel.  
How is Clopidogrel Krka used? 
Clopidogrel Krka is available as tablets containing 75 mg clopidogrel. The standard dose is one 75-mg 
tablet once a day.  
In acute coronary syndrome, treatment generally starts with a loading dose of four tablets. This is then 
followed by the standard 75-mg dose once a day for at least four weeks (in ‘ST segment elevation’ 
myocardial infarction) or for up to 12 months (in unstable angina or ‘non-Q-wave’ myocardial 
infarction).  
In acute coronary syndrome and atrial fibrillation, Clopidogrel Krka is used together with aspirin, the 
dose of which should not be higher than 100 mg. 
Clopidogrel Krka can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Clopidogrel Krka work? 
The active substance in Clopidogrel Krka, clopidogrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This 
means that it helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special 
cells in the blood called platelets aggregating (sticking together). Clopidogrel stops the platelets 
aggregating by blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a special receptor on their surface. 
This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to 
prevent another heart attack or stroke. 
How has Clopidogrel Krka been studied? 
Because Clopidogrel Krka is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Plavix. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Clopidogrel Krka? 
Because Clopidogrel Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Clopidogrel Krka approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Clopidogrel Krka 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Plavix. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Plavix, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended that 
Clopidogrel Krka be approved for use in the EU. 
Clopidogrel Krka  
EMA/470138/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Clopidogrel Krka? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Clopidogrel Krka have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Clopidogrel Krka 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Clopidogrel Krka on 23 September 2009. 
The full EPAR for Clopidogrel Krka can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Clopidogrel Krka, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Clopidogrel Krka  
EMA/470138/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
