European Medicines Agency 
Doc. Ref.:EMEA/506806/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Clopidogrel Krka 
International Nonproprietary Name: clopidogrel  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001056 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects ..................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 13 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 14 
2/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Krka,  d.d.,  Novo  mesto    submitted  on  25  July  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Clopidogrel Krka , in accordance with 
the  centralised  procedure  falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Annex  to  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation:  15-07-1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)   Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006aEU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Plavix, 75 mg, film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 15-07-1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/069/001a, EU/1/98/069/001b, 
EU/1/98/069/002a, EU/1/98/069/002b, EU/1/98/069/003a, EU/1/98/069/003b, 
EU/1/98/069/004a, EU/1/98/069/004b, EU/1/98/069/005a, EU/1/98/069/005b, 
EU/1/98/069/006aEU/1/98/069/006b, EU/1/98/069/007a, EU/1/98/069/007b 
(cid:131)   Member State of source: Germany 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP  was: 
Pr Philippe Lechat  
Scientific Advice: 
 The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 25 July 2008.  
The procedure started on 20 August 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13 
November 2008.   
During  the  meeting  on  15–18  December  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  18 December 2008.  
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  20 
March 2009. 
The  summary  report  of  the  GCP  inspection  carried  out  at  a  CRO  in  Canada  between  9-12 
February 2009 was issued on 07 April 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  12 May 2009.  
During the CHMP meeting on 26 – 29 May 2009, the CHMP agreed on a List of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of outstanding issues on 
03 June 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on  11 June 2009. .  
During the meeting on  22-25 June 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Clopidogrel  Krka  on  25  June  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the 
letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  17  June 
2009.  
4/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
2. 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Clopidorel  Krka  75 mg
lopidogrel hydrochloride as active substance. 
c
  film  coated  tablets  is  a  generic  medicinal  product  containing  clopidogrel  as 
The  reference  medicinal  product  is  Plavix  7
h
ydrogensulphate.  
5  mg  film-coated  tablets,  which  contain  clopidogrel 
-competitive inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) at the platelet receptors. 
Clopidogrel is a non
he  effect  of  ADP  on  platelets  is  mediated  by  two  G-protein  coupled  P2Y  receptors  (P2Y1  and 
T
P2Y12) and the cation channel-coupled P2X1 receptor. The adenylate cyclase-coupled ADP receptor 
P2Y12 is the main target of clopidogrel and lead to inhibition of platelet activation, aggregation, and 
Gp  IIb/IIIa  receptor  activation.  Clopidogrel  is  a  thienopyridine  and  only  the  S-enantiomer  is 
pharmacologically active. 
file of clopidogrel has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
The safety and efficacy pro
hich  can  be  found  in  the  EPAR  for  Plavix.  In  addition,  there  is  a  long-term  post-marketing 
w
experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Clopidogrel Krka 75mg 
film-coated  tablet  contains  clopidogrel  hydrochloride.  Since  this  application  is  a  generic  application 
referring  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix,  summary  of  the  clinical  data  of  clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate is available and no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics 
and efficacy and safety have been conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride.  
The  indication  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  is  different  from  the  reference 
p
art of the indication approved for the reference medicinal product. 
medicinal  product.  It  is 
The therapeutic indication of Clopidogrel Krka is: 
C
•   Patients suffering from myocardial infarction (fr
lopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
om a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial dis
ease. 
e therapeutic indication of Plavix is:  
lopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in:  
Th
C
• Patients suffering from myocardial infa
rction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disea
se.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
- Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-
wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients u
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
 ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in me
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
ndergoing a stent placement following 
dically 
-
2.2  Q
uality aspects 
e corresponding to 75 mg of clopidogrel. 
he  product  is  presented  as  film  coated  tablets  containing  83.5  mg  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  as 
Introduction 
T
active substanc
Other ingredients are: 
Tablet  core:  microcrystalline  cellulose,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  crospovidone,  macrogol  6000, 
hydrogenated castor oi
Film coating: hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171), red iron oxide (E172), talc and propylene glycol 
The film coated tablets are packed in blisters of OPA/Al/PVC-Al. 
l 
5/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
lopidogrel hydrochloride is a white to off-white or yellowish crystalline powder practically insoluble 
C
in water at neutral pH but freely soluble at pH = 1. It is also freely dissolves in methanol. Clopidogrel 
hydrochloride  has  the  chemical  name  (+)-(S)-Methyl  α-(o-chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c] 
pyridine-5(4H)-acetate hydrochloride. It does not show polymorphism. The active substance has one 
chiral  centre  therefore  it  exhibits  chirality  –  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  is  synthesized  as  the  S-
enantiomer. 
•
Manufacture 
lopidogrel hydrochloride is synthesised by three alternative routes from four key starting materials. 
C
The manufacturing process consists of three stages: the synthesis of clopidogrel free base (stage 1), 
purification of clopidogrel (stage 2) and crystallisation of clopidogrel hydrochloride (stage 3). The 
active substance is manufactured in two manufacturing sites.  
dequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The 
A
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
•
Specification 
he  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  solubility  (Ph.  Eur),  identification 
T
(IR, chlorides), loss of drying (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (Ph. Eur), sulphated ash 
(Ph.  Eur),  related  substances  (UPLC,  HPLC),  enantiomeric  purity  (HPLC),  assay  (,  HPLC),  particle 
size (laser diffraction).   
he specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
T
used in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are in accordance with the 
ICH Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
atch analysis results (n=16) for active substance manufactured according to all alternative methods 
B
by all manufacturers confirm consistency and uniformity. 
•
Stability 
he stability studies have been carried out on three batches of active substance manufactured 
.T
H) and 
according to all alternative methods by all manufacturers at long-term conditions (25°C/60 % R
at accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH) packed into drums containing the primary translucent LDPE 
bag and the secondary laminated bag made of PET/Al/PE foil. Photostability studies have also been 
carried out.  
ples have been stored in a mini-size simulation of the original packing.  
The stability sam
Parameters  tested  during  stabilities  studies  are  appearance,  loss  on  drying,  relate
enantiomeric purity, assay and identification.  
d  substance, 
lopidogrel hydrochloride is sensitive to basic hydrolysis, oxidation and to acid hydrolysis at elevated 
C
temperature. Practically no degradation occurs when clopidogrel hydrochloride is placed at solid state 
under elevated temperature. 
he proposed re-test period is justified based on the stability results when the active substance is 
T
stored in the original packing material. 
6/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
of developing a conventional release film coated 
The product has been developed with the objective 
blet  bioequivalent  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Plavix.  It  represents  an  alternative  to  the 
ta
reference medicinal product since it contains the same active substance (clopidogrel base) different in 
the salt (hydrochloride instead of bisulphate) with the same dosage strength and dosage form. 
  during 
Solubility,  particle  size  and  stability  of  the  active  substance  were  taken  into  consideration
evelopment.  A  number  of  studies  were  also  carried  out  to  define  the  compatibility  of  the  active 
d
substance  with  the  pharmaceutical  excipients  used.  A  thermoplastic  based  granulation  has  been 
selected  as  manufacturing  process  especially  in  view  of  safety  and  environmental  issues  and  it 
provides  good  reproducibility  and  scale-up.  The  chosen  pharmaceutical  form,  film  coating,  is 
necessary especially for taste masking. 
  are  tablet  core
:  microcrystalline  cellulose  (diluent),  colloidal 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation
nhydrous silica (glidant), crospovidone (disintegrant) , macrogol 6000 (binder), hydrogenated castor 
a
oil  (lubricant).  Film  coating:  hypromellose  (film  coating  agent),  titanium  dioxide  (E171)  (opacifer), 
red iron oxide (E172), talc (antiadhesion agent) and propylene glycol (platicizer). All excipients used 
are in compliance with the Ph Eur. with the exception of the colouring agent. The methods used for 
the control of red iron oxide are described. None of the excipients are of human or animal origin. 
The  film  coated  tablets  are  packed  in  blisters  consisting  in  OPA/Al/PVC  film  and  heat  sealing 
luminium foil. Supplier statement is provided confirming that the PVC film complies with the PhEur 
a
and the aluminium film conforms to the EU Directives. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
s a non-standard thermoplastic granulation. Main steps are mixing, 
ranulation with polymer, sieving, mixing with additives into compression mixture, tabletting and film 
The manufacturing process include
g
coating. 
ufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
The  man
anufacturing  process  on  commercial  batch  size  and  on  both  manufacturing  sites  claimed.  The 
m
applicant commits to validate the bigger batch size claimed. As the batch size increase do not affect 
the  validation  of  the  non-standard  granulation  step  (increase  of  sub-batches  number)  this  was 
accepted.  
The batch analysis data show that the film coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agree
d finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
• 
Product Specification 
  validated  methods  for  appearance,  uniformity  of  dosage 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by
h Eur), identification of clopidogrel (HPLC, TLC), identification of titanium dioxide, identification 
(P
of  iron  oxides,  related  substances,  enantiomeric  purity,  dissolution,  assay  (,  HPLC),  microbiological 
purity (Ph Eur) and water content (Ph Eur).    
Degradation products are controlled and their
to
xicology studies. 
 limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
Degradation produc
ts have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The  tests  and  limits  for  the  finished  product  are  appropriate  to  control  the  quality  of  the  finished 
p
Batch analysis data submitted confirm satisfactory uniformity of the finished product at release. 
roduct for their intended purpose. 
7/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Three pilot batches of the finished product packed in the intended container were included on stability 
he batches were tested for appearance, water, disintegration, hardness, 
studies under ICH conditions. T
re
They were exposed to 25º C/60% RH for 12 months for and for 6 months at 40°C/75%RH 
lated substances, enantiomeric purity, dissolution of clopidogrel, assay and microbiological tests. 
Photostability tests have been performed in accordance with ICH guideline Q 1 B. Results showed th
the  tablets  became  slightly  pale  and  the  colour  was  not  homogeneous,  which  co
re
quirements for the storage of the product in the original package. 
at 
nfirms  the 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
formation on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
In
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of te
onsistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
c
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
o impact 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having n
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe 
sts carried out indicate satisfactory 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
C
lopidogrel  is  widely  used  well-known  substance.  Its  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological  properties  are  well
  characterised.  This  generic  application  contains  a  different  salt 
(c
lopidogrel  hydrochloride)  of  the  active  substance  used  in  the  reference  product  (clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate).  A  summary  of  the  literature  information  on  non-clinical  data  of  clopidogrel  and 
the  results  of  two  new  non-clinical  studies  (acute  and  chronic  toxicity)  conducted  with  clopidogrel 
hydrochloride  were  provided.  Furthermore,  on  the  basis  of  the  CHMP  Guidance  for  users  of  the 
centralised  procedure  for  generic  application  (EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006),  when  different  salts  of 
the  active  substance  of  the  reference  medicinal  product  are  used,  additional  information  providing 
proof  that  their  non-clinical  safety  and/or  efficacy  profile  is  not  different  from  that  of  the  reference 
medicinal  product  is  needed.  Thus,  information  that  the  different  clopidogrel  salt  (clopidogrel 
hydrochloride)  does  not  differ  significantly  in  non-clinical  properties  with  regards  to  safety  and 
efficacy  of  the  reference  product  were  requested  by  the  CHMP  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
guideline.  
The  response  referred  to  the  results  of  the  toxicity  and  genotoxicity  studies  to  examine  the  safety 
lopidogrel  hydrochloride  vs  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate.  The  repeated  dose  toxicity 
profile  of  c
tudy  reports  were  in  accordance  with  GLP  standards  and  regulatory  guidelines  (please  see  section 
s
Toxicology).  The  13-week  toxicity  study  report  did  not  detect  major  differences  in  the  same  safety 
profile for the hydrochloride and hydrogen sulphate salt; liver was determined as the target organ in 
both  salts.  Regarding  the  genotoxicity  testing,  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  tested  at  a  higher 
concentration  level  than  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate,  turned  to  be  not  clastogenic  in  the 
chromosome  aberration  test.  In  the  micronucleus  test,  at  the  same  dose  levels,  neither  the  hydrogen 
sulphate  salt  nor  the  hydrochloride  salt  was  found  clastogenic/aneugenic.  Thus,  based  on  the  data 
provided,  similar  safety  profile  was  demonstrated  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  and  clopidogrel 
hydrogen sulphate.  
Toxicology 
T
wo new non-clinical studies were conducted with clopidogrel hydrochloride. 
8/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single-dose toxicity 
he acute toxicity study on rats was performed with clopidogrel hydrochloride. Results of single dose 
T
t  doses  10,  100,  1000 
toxicity  studies  in  rats  revealed  low  toxicity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  a
g/kg.  No  clinical  signs  of  toxicity  and  mortality  were  reported  in  rats  after  the  administration  of 
m
differences in body weight gain were seen between the control and treated groups. 
drug. No significant 
At  terminal  necropsy,  no  apparent  macroscopic  changes  attributed  to  clopidogrel  hydrochloride 
administration  were  observed  in  any  animal.  The  majority  of  tissue  was  macroscopically 
unremarkable. LD50 values were over 1500mg /kg for both sexes. 
After a single oral administration of clopidogrel in mice, rats and baboons, toxicity occurred only at 
very high doses and the target organs were mainly the gastrointestinal tract, the kidney and the lung. 
The oral LD50 values of clopidogrel were over 2 g/kg in all species
.  
Repeated-dose toxicity 
The  toxicity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  investigated  in  rats  upon  daily  oral  administration  by 
with four groups of 10 males and 
gastric gavage for 13 consecutive weeks. The study was conducted 
0 females each versus one vehicle control group and 3 test groups receiving 12.5, 125 or 250 mg/kg 
1
ent with clopidogrel hydrochloride was generally well tolerated, based on the 
body weight/day. Treatm
lack of treatment related clinical signs and the normal growth of the animals. Some treatment related 
changes  in  haematology,  e.g.  thrombocytes,  and  clinical  chemistry,  e.g.  cholesterol,  triglycerides, 
bilirubin,  total  protein,  etc.,  were  revealed.  Decreased  thymus  weights,  increased  adrenal,  kidney, 
seminal vesicles and liver weights and hypertrophy of centrilobular hepatocytes were also observed. 
The  no-observed-adverse-effect  level  (NOAEL)  for  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  considered  12.5 
mg/kg body weight/day. There appears to be no additional toxic effects of clopidogrel hydrochloride 
although  no  direct  comparative  data  between  the  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  and  clopidogrel 
hydrogensulphate  were  provided.  Furthermore,  any  potential  differences  in  the  non-clinical 
toxicokinetic  profile  would  be  apparent  in  the  clinical  pharmacokinetic  profile  addressed  by  the 
bioequivalence studies. 
Genotoxicity 
The  in  vitro  Salmonella  typhimurium  reverse  mutation  assays  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was 
  evidence  that  clopidogrel  did  not  induce  effects  at  either  the  gene  or 
performed  and  revealed
hromosome  levels.  In  Ames  test  of  clopidogrel’s  main  metabolite  S-carboxylic  acid  derivative  was 
c
  The  eventual  mutagenic  activity  of  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was  investigated  in  the 
also  negative.
bacterial reverse mutation assay with Salmonella typhimurium strains TA97a, TA98, TA100, TA 1535 
and  TA102,  without  and  with  metabolic  activation.  The  tested  substance  was  considered  non 
mutagenic. Clopidogrel was not genotoxic in micronucleus test in mice. Incidence of micronucleated 
polychromatic red blood cells (RBs) was not elevated in mice received clopidogrel at oral doses up to 
2000 mg/kg daily, for three consecutive days. Ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic RBCs was 
also  normal  which  indicates  that  there  was  no  bone  marrow  cytotoxicity.  There  was  no  evidence  of 
any clastogenic activity for clopidogrel. 
Although  the  in  vitro  studies  did  not  reveal  any  mutagenic,  genotoxic  or  clastogenic  potential  of 
clopidogrel, the CHMP raised a major objection with respect to the studies on impurities, which did do 
CD  guideline,  protocol  471  (OECD,  1997,  Test  Guideline 
not  follow  recommendations  of  the  OE
7:Bacterial  Reverse  Mutation  Test.  In:  OECD  Guideline  for  Testing  of  Chemicals.  Paris, 
4
Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  &  Development)  and  of  the  Question  &  Answers  on  the 
CHMP  guideline  on  the  limits  of  genotoxic  impurities  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/431994/2007).    In 
response, adequately conducted reverse mutation assays in accordance with GLP standards and OECD 
guideline protocol number 471 was provided. The results of the Ames test performed with potassium 
ethyl  sulphate  and  clopidogrel  isopropyl  sulphate  indicated  that  these  two  substances  do  not  hold  a 
mutagenic  potential.  Thus,  the  content  limit  for  monoalkylsulphates  as  proposed  by  the  applicant  is 
acceptable to the CHMP. 
Introduction  of  the  product  onto  the  market  is  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant  increase  in  the 
combined sales volumes for all clopidorel hydrogensulphate products, and would thus not be expected 
pon the environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP Guideline 
to have an adverse effect u
9/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (CPMP/SWP/4447/00), a 
formal environmental risk assessment is not considered necessary. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addr
essed pharmacokinetic data in respect of one bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
anada. 
 statement was provided that the clinical part of these studies was conducted according to the ICH 
The bioequivalence study provided in support of the application was performed by CROs in C
A
Note f
or Guidance on Good Clinical Practices.  
During  the  evaluation  of  the  dossier,  the  CHMP  considered  that  in  the  view  of  the  reported 
discrepancies that occurred during clopidogrel plasma analysis, it was necessary to inspect the conduct 
lts  of  this  triggered  inspection  and  the  satisfactory 
of  the  bioequivalence  study  07-197.  The  resu
re
sponses to its findings are an integral part of the procedure.  
Clinical studies 
 film coated tablets with the originator 
One bioequivalence study comparing Clopidogrel Krka 75 mg
lavix  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  was  provided.  The  study  was  performed  in  fasting  subjects  and 
P
nt drug and the major (inactive) metabolite, clopidogrel carboxylic acid. In addition, 
measured the pare
is generic product contains a different salt of clopidogrel (clopidogrel hydrochloride) in comparison 
th
with the reference medicinal product. Thus, the CHMP raised a major concern, since on the basis of 
the  CHMP  Guidance 
for  generic  application 
(EMEA/CHMP/225411/2006), when different salts of the active substance of the reference medicinal 
product are used, additional information providing proof that their safety and/or efficacy profile is not 
different from that of the reference medicinal product is needed. 
the  centralised  procedure 
for  users  of 
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
97 
Study code: 07-1
Comparative,  randomised,  single-dose,  2-way  crossover  bioavailability  study  of  clopidogrel  75  mg 
ts  (test)  and  Plavix  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  (reference)  in  healthy  adult  male 
film-coated  table
volunteers under fasting conditions 
 study was to assess the single-dose relative bioavailability of clopidogrel 75 mg 
The objective of this
film-coated tablets (KRKA, d.d.) and Plavix 75 mg clopidogrel film-coated tablets (Sanofi-Synthelabo 
Limited), under fasting conditions. This was an open-label, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover, 
bility  study  performed  on  volunteers  A  total  of  92  subjects 
2-sequence,  comparative  bioavaila
completed  the  clinical  phase  of  the  study.  Single  oral  75  mg  clopidogrel  doses  were  separated  by  a 
washout  period  of  14  days.  The  protocol  and  informed  consent  forms  (ICFs)  were  reviewed  and 
approved  by  an  Institutional  Review  Board  (IRB)  convening  the  CRO  in  October  and  November 
2007. The study was conducted between 1 December and 22 December 2007. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by KRKA, d.d. Novo Mesto, Slovenia, batch 
1
232 01 I068 1007. 
P
lavix 75 mg tablets manufactured by Sanofi-Synthelabo, United-Kingdom, batch 600711. 
10/15 
© EMEA 2009 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
I  18.00  –
A  total  of  96  healthy,  non-smoking,  adult  male  volunteers  aged  18-55  years  and  with  BM
8.00 kg/m2 were included in the study. These were medically healthy subjects with clinically normal 
2
signs  and  ECGs.  Of  the  96  subjects,  4  subjects  were  withdrawn  or 
laboratory  profiles,  vital 
iscontinued. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the analysis. Adequate inclusion and 
d
exclusion  criteria  were  followed.  The  choice  of  the  selected  population  in  this  clinical  trial  was 
considered appropriate.  
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
The plasma samples were assayed for clopidogrel and its carboxylic acid metabolite using LC/MS/MS 
ethod.  The  analytical  technique  was  initially  validated  at  a  CRO  in  Canada,  and  transferred 
m
 in Canada. A partial validation was conducted successfully in order to allow 
afterward to another CRO
is transfer. However, there were insufficient data submitted with respect to the pre-study validation 
th
and  validation  of  the  bio-analytical  technique  used  for  determination  of  clopidogrel,  and  the  CHMP 
questioned the validity of the bioequivalence study. Thus, a GCP inspection was requested. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The primary pharmacokinetic parameters defined in the protocol were AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and maximal 
plasma clopidogrel concentration Cmax. 
S
TATISTICAL METHODS  
ried out on ln-transformed AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax for both 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was car
a
nalytes:  clopidogrel  and  the  main  inactive  metabolite.  A  non-parametric  test  was  carried  out  to 
compare  the  Tmax  values 
between  treatments.  The  statistical  model  included  sequence,  period  and 
tr
eatment factors as fixed effects and subject within sequence as random effect. The statistical methods 
used were acceptable.  
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetic  param
range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
eters  for  clopidogrel  (AUC  and  Cmax:  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD,  tmax:    median, 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
pg*h/ml 
2257.6 
(3482.8) 
1909.7 
(1575.7) 
0;110]%
[9
100 % 
43.3 % 
 concentra
 area under the plasma
the plasma
 concentrati
 plasma concentration  
Test 
(S.D.) 
Reference 
(S.D.) 
*Ratio (90% CI) 
Point e
stimate 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
AUC0-∞
AUC area under 
Cmax   maximum
Tmax  
time for maximu
*log-transformed values 
0-t  
t
max 
h 
1 
(0.33-16) 
1 
(0.33-5) 
AUC0-∞ 
pg*h/ml 
2579.1 
(3891.4) 
1983.4 
(1649.5) 
7; 109]%
98 % 
43.5 % 
e curve fr
me curve from
C
max 
pg/ml 
1106.7 
(873.3) 
981.4 
(1001) 
4;108]%
95 % 
54.6 % 
om time zero to infinity
ours  
e zero to t h
 tim
[8
[8
tion-tim
on-ti
m concentration : media
n, min an
d max  
Pharmaco
tmax: median, range) following a single 75 mg oral dose (n=92) in study 07-197 are presented below. 
kinetic  parameters  for  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  (AUC  and  Cma
x:  arithmetic  mean  ±  SD, 
11/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Treatment 
AUC0-t 
ng*h/ml 
6632.4 
Test 
(1372.7) 
(S.D.) 
6674.7 
Reference 
(1435.9) 
(S.D.) 
6;100]%
[9
*Ratio (90% CI) 
98 % 
stimate 
Point e
8.4 % 
Intra-subject CV (%) 
 concentra
AUC0-∞ area under the plasma
AUC0-t  area under 
the plasma
 concentrati
 plasma concentration  
Cmax   maximum
Tmax  
time for maximu
*log-transformed values 
t
max 
h 
0.685 
(0.5-3) 
0.775 
(1-5) 
AUC0-∞ 
ng*h/ml 
7105.8 
(1452.4) 
7229.6 
(1536.3) 
7; 100]%
98 % 
7.8 % 
e curve fr
me curve from
C
max 
ng/ml 
2545.7 
(873.3) 
2608.9 
(854.9) 
1;104]%
97 % 
26 % 
om time zero to infinity  
e zero to t h
ours  
 tim
[9
[9
tion-tim
on-ti
m concentration : media
ne, min 
and max  
The follo
wing a ceptance criteria were set as per clinical study report:  
c
- 
-
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameters AUC0-t and AUCinf should be within 80-
125%. 
The 90% confidence interval for the exponential of the difference between the test and the 
reference product for the ln-transformed parameter Cmax should be within 75-133%. 
t and AUCinf are in line with the recommendation of 
The proposed 90% confidence intervals for AUC
dy 
the CHMP guideline CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 and the observed results of the clinical stu
  for  Cmax 
fulfil  this  requirement.  However,  the  widening  of  the  limits  for  bioequivalence  conclusions
alues, although not in line with the current CHMP recommendations, was not considered necessary 
v
since  the  Cmax  results  of  the  study  are  within  the  standard  80-125%  limits  required  by  the  NƒG  on 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  No  significant 
difference in Tmax was evidenced by the non parametric test. 
No serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported during this study. Overall, clopidogrel demonstrated 
a good safety profile. The risk of bleeding is the most important adverse effect of clopidogrel, which 
sed with ASA.  No significant changes in 
might be even increased when clopidogrel is concomitantly u
e subjects' state of health were observed and it is believed that  Clopidogrel Krka 75 mg film coated 
th
tablet is safe when used according to the SmPC. 
From  the  96  subjects  included  in  the  study,  four  were  withdrawn  for  personal  reasons  or  non-
compliance. 92 subjects finished the study and were included in the data set for statistical analysis. All 
withdrawn and discontinued subjects are docume
nted and validity is justified.  
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  07-197,  Clopidogrel  Krka  is  co
w
ith Plavix. 
nsidered  bioequivalent 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies w
ere submitted. 
Post marketing exper
ience 
There was no post-marketing
T
here is a wide postmarketing experience with clopidogrel. 
 data submitted by the Applicant for this product.. 
12/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule
e reference medicinal product. 
th
 for Clopidogrel Krka should follow the PSUR submission schedule of 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
he  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
gislative requirements.  The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
T
le
the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
 submitted. Since the application concerns generics of respective 
ference  medicinal  products  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk  minimization 
Risk Management Plan has not been
re
activities have been identified,
 this considered acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
lopidogrel Krka application, analysing the 
One clinical bioequivalence trial 07-197 was provided for C
arent prodrug clopidogrel. The demonstration of the unchanged safety/efficacy profile of clopidogrel 
p
ith Plavix (clopidogrel hydrogensulphate) was raised by the CHMP 
hydrochloride when compared w
s a major issue for this generic product. In response, further discussion on the comparability of the 
a
efficacy  and  safety  profiles  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  and  clopidogrel  hydrochloride  was 
provided.  Pharmacokinetics,  dissolution,  adverse  events  profile  and  other  clinical  data  were 
considered  and  it  was  concluded  that  the  two  salts  of  clopidogrel  have  a comparable safety/efficacy 
profile. 
At  the  time  of  approval  of  the  reference  product  Plavix,  there  was  no  reliable  and  validated 
methodology  for  the  determination  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  parent  prodrug  clopidogrel,  or  of 
e metabolite clopidogrel thiol. Thus, the pharmacokinetic profile was established based on the 
the activ
harmacokinetics of clopidogrel carboxylic acid, which is the non-active metabolite.  In the meantime, 
p
a reliable bioanalytical method for determination of clopidogrel in plasma and urine was developed. 
Since  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  active  metabolite  is  still  not  well  established,  the  CHMP 
accepted the proof of bioequivalence based on the clopidogrel parent compound data in study 07-197. 
Thus,  data  related  to  pharmacokinetics  of  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  are  considered  supportive, 
whereas data on clopidogrel parent drug is important for the confirmation of bioequivalence. 
The  indication  of  Clopidogrel  Krka  is  different from that of the reference medicinal product, Plavix 
(please  see  section  2.1).  Thus,  the  Product  Information  has  been  adequately  amended  to  reflect  this 
change and this is considered acceptable.  
Furthermore, the recently published literature data indicate that the bioavailability of a single oral dose 
of clopidogrel and the pharmacokinetic parameters of clopidogrel, especially Cmax and AUCinf, might 
be  increased  by  several  folds  in  the  fed  c
ondition  compared  to  the  fasted  condition.  The  currently 
p
resented clinical studies were conducted in fasted state and thus, the CHMP requested a clarification 
of  this  approach  and  adequate  justification  why  bioequivalence  for  the  generic  product  should  be 
demonstrated only under fasting condition was provided. Bioequivalence studies in fasting conditions 
are  normally  recommended  as  mentioned  in  the  Questions  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability  and 
Bioequivalence  Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006)  document  as  the  drug  product  is  to  be 
administered  under  fasting  as  well  as  fed  conditions.  In  addition  to  the  dissolution  studies  using 
clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate,  conducted  at  three  different  pH  values  (1.2,  4.5,  6.8),  the  applicant 
provided an additional in vivo bioequivalence study conducted under fed conditions. The comparative 
in  vitro  dissolution  studies  under  conditions  mimicking  the  fed  state  as  well  the  fed  state 
13/15 
© EMEA 2009 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bioequivalence  study  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  when  compared  to  the  reference  drug 
product. 
The  bio-analytical  technique  and  methodology  applied  in  the  analysis  of  the  samples  during  the 
bioequivalence  studies  included  validation  with  the  analysis  of  calibration  curves  and  controls  at 
various concentrations. The CHMP questioned whether there is a potential for back-conversion of the 
uantitatively  major  metabolite  clopidogrel  carboxylic  acid  to  the  parent  drug.  Considering  that  the 
q
plasma levels of clopidogrel carboxylic acid are considerably higher than those of the parent drug, a 
minimum back-conversion of the metabolite would lead to a significant over-estimation of clopidogrel 
plasma  levels  and  would  bias  the  outcome  of  the  bioequivalence  study.  The  back-conversion  could 
occur in the presence of alcohol used in sample preparation and analysis. It was, indeed, reported that 
a possible back-conversion of clopidogrel metabolite to clopidogrel parent drug was evidenced in the 
presence  of  methanol.  In  order  to  avoid  this  process,  the  extraction  procedure  was  changed  and 
methanol-free conditions employed. Although it has been indicated that stability tests were performed 
in  order  to  prove  the  reproducibility  and  accuracy  of  clopidogrel  concentration  measurements,  the 
CHMP  questioned  these  results  since  no  clear  description  of  the  analytical  technique  including 
extraction  procedure  actually  used  in  the  initial  pre-study  validation  process  was  provided. 
Information on the validation procedures in study 07-197 was requested by the CHMP. In response, 
details of the bio-analytical methodology and full validation details were provided demonstrating that 
no methanol, which is needed for the conversion the acid metabolite to clopidogrel, was used and thus, 
no  source  of  methylation  exists  within  the  entire  methodology,  including  all  solution  preparation, 
plasma  sample  processing,  handling  storage  and  LC-MS/MS  determination.  The  CHMP  considered 
this issue resolved. 
Considering  the  above  difficulties  in  the  determination  of  clopidogrel  in  plasma  especially  the  issue 
related  to  the  possible  back-conversion  of  the  metabolite  to  the  parent  drug,  a  triggered  GCP 
oequivalence  study  was  requested  by  the  CHMP,  which  was  of  the  opinion  that 
inspection  of  the  bi
sults  of  this  inspection  and  the  satisfactory  responses  to  its  findings  were  an  integral  part  of  the 
re
evaluation procedure. The inspection identified major and minor findings that seem not to affect the 
overall results of the trial.  
The  bioequivalence  study  07-197  and  its  statistical  evaluation  were  in  accordance  with  accepted 
standards  for  bioequivalence  testing,  as  stated  in  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of 
ivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  The  parameters  used  to  establish 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequ
ioavailability included the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and the maximal plasma 
b
concentration  of  the  parent  compound  of  clopidogrel.  The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  these 
parameters  were  within  the  recommended  80-125%  range  for  clopidogrel,  required  by  the  above 
mentioned guideline. The proposed widening of the 90% confidence interval for clopidogrel Cmax to 
75%-133% was found to be unacceptable by the CHMP; nevertheless, since the confidence intervals 
for Cmax values of clopidogrel were within the required 80-125% range, the need for widening of the 
intervals was not applicable. The bioequivalence with Plavix was proven.  
•  User consultation 
The results of user consultation provided indicates that the Package leaflet i
o
is readable in patients /
rganized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
s well structured and 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bi
b
een shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
oequivalence  has 
14/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
are 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities 
re
quired beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
B
ratio of Clopidogrel
ased on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
 Krka in the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
•  Patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic  stroke  (from  7  days  until  less  than  6  months)  or  established  peripheral  arterial 
disease. 
was favourable  and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
15/15 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
