EMA/683718/2021 
EMEA/H/C/001134 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma1 (clopidogrel) 
An overview of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Clopidogrel Taw Pharma and what is it used for? 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is a medicine used to prevent atherothrombotic events (problems caused by 
blood clots and hardening of the arteries) in adults who have:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Clopidogrel Taw Pharma can be started 
between a few days and 35 days after the attack; 
recently had an ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by insufficient blood supply to part of the brain). 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma can be started between seven days and six months after the stroke; 
peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries); 
a condition known as ‘acute coronary syndrome’, when it should be given with aspirin (another 
medicine that prevents blood clots). Acute coronary syndrome is a group of heart problems that 
include unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) and certain types of heart attack. Some of 
these patients may have had a stent (a short tube) inserted into an artery to prevent it from 
closing up. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is also used to prevent problems caused by blood clots in adults with atrial 
fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the upper chambers of the heart), when it should be given 
with aspirin. It is used in patients who have at least one risk factor for events such as a heart attack or 
stroke, cannot take vitamin K antagonists (other medicines that prevent blood clots) and are at low 
risk of bleeding. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains the active substance clopidogrel and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains the same active substance and works in the same way as 
a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Plavix. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Clopidogrel Taw Pharma used? 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is available as tablets. The standard dose is 75 mg once a day.  
1 Previously known as Clopidogrel Mylan. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
In acute coronary syndrome, treatment generally starts with a loading dose of 300 mg. This is then 
followed by the standard 75 mg dose once a day for between 4 weeks and up to 12 months. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For more information about using Clopidogrel Taw Pharma, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Clopidogrel Taw Pharma work? 
The active substance in Clopidogrel Taw Pharma, clopidogrel, is an antiplatelet medicine. This means 
that it helps to prevent components in the blood called platelets from sticking together and forming 
clots. Clopidogrel blocks a substance called ADP from attaching to a receptor (target) on the surface of 
platelets. This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and 
helping to prevent another heart attack or stroke. 
How has Clopidogrel Taw Pharma been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Plavix, and do not need to be repeated for Clopidogrel Taw 
Pharma.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma? 
Because Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Clopidogrel Taw Pharma authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Clopidogrel Taw 
Pharma has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Plavix. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Plavix, the benefits of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma outweigh the identified 
risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma are continuously monitored. 
Suspected side effects reported with Clopidogrel Taw Pharma are carefully evaluated and any 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma0F (clopidogrel)  
EMA/683718/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 
Clopidogrel Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 September 2009. 
The name of the medicine was changed to Clopidogrel Taw Pharma on 1 October 2021. 
Further information on Clopidogrel Taw Pharma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/clopidogrel-taw-pharma. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma0F (clopidogrel)  
EMA/683718/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
