ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of clopidogrel (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient with known effect: 
Each film-coated tablet contains 13 mg hydrogenated castor oil.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Pink, round and biconvex film-coated tablets. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events 
Clopidogrel is indicated in:   
• 
• 
Adult patients suffering from myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), 
ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial 
disease. 
Adult patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
-  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction), including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
-  ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in patients 
undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (including patients undergoing a stent 
placement) or medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic/fibrinolytic therapy. 
In patients with moderate to high-risk Transient Ischaemic Attack (TIA) or minor Ischaemic Stroke 
(IS) 
Clopidogrel in combination with ASA is indicated in: 
-  Adult patients with moderate to high-risk TIA (ABCD21 score ≥4) or minor IS (NIHSS2 ≤3) 
within 24 hours of either the TIA or IS event.   
Prevention of atherothrombotic and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation 
In adult patients with atrial fibrillation who have at least one risk factor for vascular events, are not 
suitable for treatment with Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) and who have a low bleeding risk, 
clopidogrel is indicated in combination with ASA for the prevention of atherothrombotic and 
thromboembolic events, including stroke. 
For further information please refer to section 5.1. 
1 Age, Blood pressure, Clinical features, Duration, and Diabetes mellitus diagnosis 
2 National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
• 
Adults and elderly 
Clopidogrel should be given as a single daily dose of 75 mg.  
In patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
- 
- 
Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction): clopidogrel treatment should be initiated with a single 300 mg or 
600 mg loading dose. A 600 mg loading dose may be considered in patients <75 years of age 
when percutaneous coronary intervention is intended (see section 4.4). Clopidogrel treatment 
should be continued at 75 mg once a day (with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 75 mg-325 mg 
daily). Since higher doses of ASA were associated with higher bleeding risk it is recommended 
that the dose of ASA should not be higher than 100 mg. The optimal duration of treatment has 
not been formally established. Clinical trial data support use up to 12 months, and the 
maximum benefit was seen at 3 months (see section 5.1). 
ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction: 
- 
For medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic/fibrinolytic therapy, 
clopidogrel should be given as a single daily dose of 75 mg initiated with a 300 mg 
loading dose in combination with ASA and with or without thrombolytics. For medically 
treated patients over 75 years of age clopidogrel should be initiated without a loading 
dose. Combined therapy should be started as early as possible after symptoms start and 
continued for at least four weeks. The benefit of the combination of clopidogrel with 
ASA beyond four weeks has not been studied in this setting (see section 5.1). 
When percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is intended: 
- 
Clopidogrel should be initiated at a loading dose of 600 mg in patients undergoing 
primary PCI and in patients undergoing PCI more than 24 hours of receiving 
fibrinolytic therapy. In patients ≥75 years old the 600 mg LD should be 
administered with caution (see section 4.4).   
Clopidogrel 300 mg loading dose should be given in patients undergoing PCI 
within 24 hours of receiving fibrinolytic therapy.  
- 
- 
Clopidogrel treatment should be continued at 75 mg once a day with ASA 75 mg-100 mg 
daily. Combined therapy should be started as early as possible after symptoms start and 
continued up to 12 months (see section 5.1). 
Adult patients with moderate to high-risk TIA or minor IS: 
Adult patients with moderate to high-risk TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) or minor IS (NIHSS ≤3) should be 
given a loading dose of clopidogrel 300 mg followed by clopidogrel 75 mg once daily and ASA 
(75 mg -100 mg once daily). Treatment with clopidogrel and ASA should be started within 24 hours 
of the event and be continued for 21 days followed by single antiplatelet therapy. 
In patients with atrial fibrillation, clopidogrel should be given as a single daily dose of 75 mg. ASA 
(75 - 100 mg daily) should be initiated and continued in combination with clopidogrel (see section 
5.1). 
If a dose is missed: 
-  Within less than 12 hours after regular scheduled time: patients should take the dose 
immediately and then take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. 
-  For more than 12 hours: patients should take the next dose at the regular scheduled time and 
should not double the dose. 
Special populations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Elderly patients 
Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction): 
- 
A 600 mg loading dose may be considered in patients <75 years of age when 
percutaneous coronary intervention is intended (see section 4.4). 
ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction:  
- 
For medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic/fibrinolytic therapy: in patients 
over 75 years of age clopidogrel should be initiated without a loading dose. 
For patients undergoing primary PCI and in patients undergoing PCI more than 24 hours of 
receiving fibrinolytic therapy:  
- 
In patients ≥75 years old the 600 mg LD should be administered with caution (see 
section 4.4).  
Paediatric population  
Clopidogrel should not be used in children because of efficacy concerns (see section 5.1). 
Renal impairment 
Therapeutic experience is limited in patients with renal impairment (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Therapeutic experience is limited in patients with moderate hepatic disease who may have 
bleeding diatheses (see section 4.4). 
Method of administration 
For oral use 
It may be given with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Severe hepatic impairment. 
Active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial haemorrhage. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Bleeding and haematological disorders 
Due to the risk of bleeding and haematological adverse reactions, blood cell count determination 
and/or other appropriate testing should be promptly considered whenever clinical symptoms 
suggestive of bleeding arise during the course of treatment (see section 4.8). As with other antiplatelet 
agents, clopidogrel should be used with caution in patients who may be at risk of increased bleeding 
from trauma, surgery or other pathological conditions and in patients receiving treatment with ASA, 
heparin, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including 
Cox-2 inhibitors, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), or CYP2C19 strong inducers or 
other medicinal products associated with bleeding risk such as pentoxifylline (see section 4.5). Due to 
the increased risk of haemorrhage, triple antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel + ASA + dipyridamole) for 
stroke secondary prevention is not recommended in patients with acute non-cardioembolic ischemic 
stroke or TIA (see sections 4.5 and section 4.8). Patients should be followed carefully for any signs of 
bleeding including occult bleeding, especially during the first weeks of treatment and/or after invasive 
cardiac procedures or surgery. The concomitant administration of clopidogrel with oral anticoagulants 
is not recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.5). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and antiplatelet effect is temporarily not desirable, 
clopidogrel should be discontinued 7 days prior to surgery. Patients should inform physicians and 
dentists that they are taking clopidogrel before any surgery is scheduled and before any new medicinal 
product is taken. Clopidogrel prolongs bleeding time and should be used with caution in patients who 
have lesions with a propensity to bleed (particularly gastrointestinal and intraocular). 
Patients should be told that it might take longer than usual to stop bleeding when they take clopidogrel 
(alone or in combination with ASA), and that they should report any unusual bleeding (site or 
duration) to their physician. 
The use of clopidogrel 600 mg loading dose is not recommended in patients with non-ST segment 
elevation acute coronary syndrome and ≥75 years of age due to increased bleeding risk in this 
population. 
Due to the limited clinical data in patients ≥75 years old with STEMI PCI, and increased risk of 
bleeding, the use of clopidogrel 600 mg loading dose should be considered only after an individual 
assessment of the bleeding risk of the patient by the physician. 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) has been reported very rarely following the use of 
clopidogrel, sometimes after a short exposure. It is characterised by thrombocytopenia and 
microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia associated with either neurological findings, renal dysfunction 
or fever. TTP is a potentially fatal condition requiring prompt treatment including plasmapheresis. 
Acquired haemophilia 
Acquired haemophilia has been reported following use of clopidogrel. In cases of confirmed isolated 
activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) prolongation with or without bleeding, acquired 
haemophilia should be considered. Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of acquired haemophilia 
should be managed and treated by specialists, and clopidogrel should be discontinued  
Recent ischaemic stroke 
• 
Initiation of therapy 
o 
In acute minor IS or moderate to high-risk TIA patients, dual antiplatelet therapy 
(clopidogrel and ASA) should be started no later than 24 hours after the event onset. 
o  There is no data regarding the benefit-risk of short term dual antiplatelet therapy in acute 
minor IS or moderate to high-risk TIA patients, with a history of (non-traumatic) 
intracranial haemorrhage.  
In non-minor IS patients, clopidogrel monotherapy should be started only after the first 
7 days of the event. 
o 
•  Non-minor IS patients (NIHSS >4)  
In view of the lack of data, use of dual antiplatelet therapy is not recommended (see section 4.1).  
•  Recent minor IS or moderate to high-risk TIA in patients for whom intervention is indicated or 
planned 
There is no data to support the use of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients for whom treatment with 
carotid endarterectomy or intravascular thrombectomy is indicated, or in patients planned for 
thrombolysis or anticoagulant therapy. Dual antiplatelet therapy is not recommended in these 
situations. 
Cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) 
Pharmacogenetics: In patients who are poor CYP2C19 metabolisers, clopidogrel at recommended 
doses forms less of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and has a smaller effect on platelet function. 
Tests are available to identify a patient's CYP2C19 genotype.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal 
products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of 
the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinical relevance of this interaction is uncertain. As a 
precaution concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors should be discouraged (see 
section 4.5 for a list of CYP2C19 inhibitors, see also section 5.2).  
Use of medicinal products that induce the activity of CYP2C19 would be expected to result in 
increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and might potentiate the bleeding risk. As 
a precaution concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4.5). 
CYP2C8 substrates 
Caution is required in patients treated concomitantly with clopidogrel and CYP2C8 substrate 
medicinal products (see section 4.5). 
Cross-reactions among thienopyridines 
Patients should be evaluated for history of hypersensitivity to thienopyridines (such as clopidogrel, 
ticlopidine, prasugrel) since cross-reactivity among thienopyridines has been reported (see section 
4.8). Thienopyridines may cause mild to severe allergic reactions such as rash, angioedema, or 
haematological cross-reactions such as thrombocytopaenia and neutropaenia. Patients who had 
developed a previous allergic reaction and/or haematological reaction to one thienopyridine may have 
an increased risk of developing the same or another reaction to another thienopyridine. Monitoring for 
signs of hypersensitivity in patients with a known allergy to thienopyridines is advised. 
Renal impairment 
Therapeutic experience with clopidogrel is limited in patients with renal impairment. Therefore 
clopidogrel should be used with caution in these patients (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Experience is limited in patients with moderate hepatic disease who may have bleeding diatheses. 
Clopidogrel should therefore be used with caution in this population (see section 4.2). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains hydrogenated castor oil which may cause stomach upset and 
diarrhoea. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Medicinal products associated with bleeding risk: There is an increased risk of bleeding due to the 
potential additive effect. The concomitant administration of medicinal products associated with 
bleeding risk should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
Oral anticoagulants: the concomitant administration of clopidogrel with oral anticoagulants is not 
recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4). Although the 
administration of clopidogrel 75 mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin or 
International Normalised Ratio (INR) in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, 
coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent 
effects on hemostasis. 
Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors: clopidogrel should be used with caution in patients who receive 
concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA): ASA did not modify the clopidogrel-mediated inhibition of ADP-induced 
platelet aggregation, but clopidogrel potentiated the effect of ASA on collagen-induced platelet 
aggregation. However, concomitant administration of 500 mg of ASA twice a day for one day did not 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A 
pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid is possible, leading to 
increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see 
section 4.4). However, clopidogrel and ASA have been administered together for up to one year 
(see section 5.1). 
Heparin: in a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate 
modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co-administration of 
heparin had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by clopidogrel. A 
pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and heparin is possible, leading to increased risk of 
bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
Thrombolytics: the safety of the concomitant administration of clopidogrel, fibrin or non-fibrin 
specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. 
The incidence of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents 
and heparin are co-administered with ASA (see section 4.8). 
NSAIDs: in a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of 
clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. However, due to the lack of 
interaction studies with other NSAIDs it is presently unclear whether there is an increased risk of 
gastrointestinal bleeding with all NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox-2 inhibitors and 
clopidogrel should be co-administered with caution (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs: since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of bleeding, the concomitant 
administration of SSRIs with clopidogrel should be undertaken with caution. 
Other concomitant therapy:  
Inducers of CYP2C19 
Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal 
products that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of 
the active metabolite of clopidogrel. 
Rifampicin strongly induces CYP2C19, resulting in both an increased level of clopidogrel active 
metabolite and platelet inhibition, which in particular might potentiate the risk of bleeding. As a 
precaution, concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4.4). 
Inhibitors of CYP2C19 
Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal 
products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of 
the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinical relevance of this interaction is uncertain. As a 
precaution concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors should be discouraged (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Medicinal products that are strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors include, for example, omeprazole 
and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, moclobemide, voriconazole, fluconazole, ticlopidine, 
carbamazepine, and efavirenz. 
Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI):  
Omeprazole 80 mg once daily administered either at the same time as clopidogrel or with 12 hours 
between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the exposure of the active metabolite by 45% 
(loading dose) and 40% (maintenance dose). The decrease was associated with a 39% (loading dose) 
and 21% (maintenance dose) reduction of inhibition of platelet aggregation. Esomeprazole is expected 
to give a similar interaction with clopidogrel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) 
interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and 
clinical studies. As a precaution, concomitant use of omeprazole or esomeprazole should be 
discouraged (see section 4.4).  
Less pronounced reductions of metabolite exposure has been observed with pantoprazole or 
lansoprazole. 
The plasma concentrations of the active metabolite was 20% reduced (loading dose) and 14% reduced 
(maintenance dose) during concomitant treatment with pantoprazole 80 mg once daily. This was 
associated with a reduction of the mean inhibition of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, 
respectively. These results indicate that clopidogrel can be administered with pantoprazole. 
There is no evidence that other medicinal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blockers or 
antacids interfere with antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. 
Boosted anti-retroviral therapy (ART): 
HIV patients treated with boosted anti-retroviral therapies (ART) are at high-risk of vascular events. 
A significantly reduced platelet inhibition has been shown in HIV patients treated with ritonavir-or 
cobicistat-boosted ART. Although the clinical relevance of these findings is uncertain, there have been 
spontaneous reports of HIV-infected patients treated with ritonavir boosted ART, who have 
experienced re-occlusive events after de-obstruction or have suffered thrombotic events under a 
clopidogrel loading treatment schedule. Average platelet inhibition can be decreased with concomitant 
use of clopidogrel and ritonavir. Therefore, concomitant use of clopidogrel with ART boosted 
therapies should be discouraged. 
Other medicinal products: A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with clopidogrel 
and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodynamic and 
pharmacokinetic interactions. No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed 
when clopidogrel was co-administered with atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine. 
Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was not significantly influenced by the 
co-administration of phenobarbital, or oestrogen. 
The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophylline were not modified by the co-administration of 
clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption. 
Data from the CAPRIE study indicate that phenytoin and tolbutamide which are metabolised by 
CYP2C9 can be safely co-administered with clopidogrel. 
CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: Clopidogrel has been shown to increase repaglinide exposure 
in healthy volunteers. In vitro studies have shown the increase in repaglinide exposure is due to 
inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel. Due to the risk of increased 
plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of clopidogrel and drugs primarily cleared by 
CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., repaglinide, paclitaxel) should be undertaken with caution (see section 
4.4). 
Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies 
with clopidogrel and some medicinal products commonly administered in patients with 
atherothrombotic disease have not been performed. However, patients entered into clinical trials with 
clopidogrel received a variety of concomitant medicinal products including diuretics, beta blockers, 
ACEI, calcium antagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agents 
(including insulin), antiepileptic agents, and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically 
significant adverse interactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists has the potential to delay 
and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel presumably because of slowed gastric emptying. The clinical 
relevance is unknown. Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome 
patients requiring co-administration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 
Rosuvastatin: 
Clopidogrel has been shown to increase rosuvastatin exposure in patients by 2-fold (AUC) and 1.3-
fold (Cmax) after administration of a 300 mg clopidogrel dose, and by 1.4-fold (AUC) without effect 
on Cmax after repeated administration of a 75 mg clopidogrel dose. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
As no clinical data on exposure to clopidogrel during pregnancy are available, it is preferable not to 
use clopidogrel during pregnancy as a precautionary measure.  
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether clopidogrel is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies have shown 
excretion of clopidogrel in breast milk. As a precautionary measure, breast-feeding should not be 
continued during treatment with Clopidogrel Taw Pharma. 
Fertility 
Clopidogrel was not shown to alter fertility in animal studies. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Clopidogrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Clopidogrel has been evaluated for safety in more than 44,000 patients, who have participated in 
clinical studies, including over 12,000 patients treated for 1 year or more. Overall, clopidogrel 
75 mg/day was comparable to ASA 325 mg/day in CAPRIE regardless of age, gender and race. The 
clinically relevant adverse reactions observed in the CAPRIE, CURE, CLARITY, COMMIT and 
ACTIVE-A studies are discussed below. In addition to clinical studies experience, adverse reactions 
have been spontaneously reported. 
Bleeding is the most common reaction reported both in clinical studies as well as in post-marketing 
experience where it was mostly reported during the first month of treatment. 
In CAPRIE, in patients treated with either clopidogrel or ASA, the overall incidence of any bleeding 
was 9.3%. The incidence of severe cases was similar for clopidogrel and ASA.  
In CURE, there was no excess in major bleeds with clopidogrel plus ASA within 7 days after 
coronary bypass graft surgery in patients who stopped therapy more than five days prior to surgery. In 
patients who remained on therapy within five days of bypass graft surgery, the event rate was 9.6% 
for clopidogrel plus ASA, and 6.3% for placebo plus ASA. 
In CLARITY, there was an overall increase in bleeding in the clopidogrel plus ASA group vs. the 
placebo plus ASA group. The incidence of major bleeding was similar between groups. This was 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consistent across subgroups of patients defined by baseline characteristics, and type of fibrinolytic or 
heparin therapy.  
In COMMIT, the overall rate of noncerebral major bleeding or cerebral bleeding was low and similar 
in both groups.  
In ACTIVE A, the rate of major bleeding was greater in the clopidogrel + ASA group than in the 
placebo + ASA group (6.7% versus 4.3%). Major bleeding was mostly of extracranial origin in both 
groups (5.3% in the clopidogrel + ASA group; 3.5% in the placebo +ASA group), mainly from the 
gastrointestinal tract (3.5% vs. 1.8%). There was an excess of intracranial bleeding in the clopidogrel 
+ ASA treatment group compared to the placebo + ASA group (1.4% versus 0.8%, respectively). 
There was no statistically significant difference in the rates of fatal bleeding (1.1% in the clopidogrel 
+ ASA group and 0.7% in the placebo +ASA group) and haemorrhagic stroke (0.8% and 0.6%, 
respectively) between groups. 
In TARDIS, patients with recent ischemic stroke receiving intensive antiplatelet therapy with three 
medicinal products (ASA + clopidogrel + dipyridamole) had more bleeding and bleeding of greater 
severity when compared with either clopidogrel alone or combined ASA and dipyridamole (adjusted 
common OR 2.54, 95% CI 2.05-3.16, p<0.0001). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions that occurred either during clinical studies or that were spontaneously reported are 
presented in the table below. Their frequency is defined using the following conventions: common 
(1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each system organ 
class, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
System Organ 
Class 
Blood and the 
lymphatic 
system disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare, not known* 
Thrombocytopenia, 
leucopenia, 
eosinophilia 
Neutropenia, 
including 
severe 
neutropenia 
Thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura 
(TTP) (see section 4.4), 
aplastic anaemia, 
pancytopenia, 
agranulocytosis, severe 
thrombocytopenia, acquired 
haemophilia A, 
granulocytopenia, anaemia 
Kounis syndrome 
(vasospastic allergic angina / 
allergic myocardial 
infarction) in the context of a 
hypersensitivity reaction due 
to clopidogrel* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Vascular 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepato-biliary 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare, not known* 
Serum sickness, 
anaphylactoid reactions, 
cross-reactive drug 
hypersensitivity among 
thienopyridines (such as 
ticlopidine, prasugrel) (see 
section 4.4)*, insulin 
autoimmune syndrome, which 
can lead to severe 
hypoglycemia, particularly in 
patients with HLA DRA4 
subtype (more frequent in the 
Japanese population)* 
Hallucinations, confusion 
Taste disturbances, ageusia 
Serious haemorrhage, 
haemorrhage of operative 
wound, vasculitis, 
hypotension 
Respiratory tract bleeding 
(haemoptysis, pulmonary 
haemorrhage), bronchospasm, 
interstitial pneumonitis, 
eosinophilic pneumonia 
Gastrointestinal and 
retroperitoneal haemorrhage 
with fatal outcome, 
pancreatitis, colitis (including 
ulcerative or lymphocytic 
colitis), stomatitis 
Acute liver failure, hepatitis, 
abnormal liver function test 
Intracranial 
bleeding (some 
cases were 
reported with fatal 
outcome), 
headache, 
paraesthesia, 
dizziness 
Eye bleeding 
(conjunctival, 
ocular, retinal) 
Vertigo 
Haematoma 
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, 
diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, 
dyspepsia 
Gastric ulcer and 
duodenal ulcer, 
gastritis, vomiting, 
nausea, 
constipation, 
flatulence 
Retroperitoneal 
haemorrhage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
Musculoskeletal, 
connective tissue 
and bone 
disorders 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare, not known* 
Bullous dermatitis (toxic 
epidermal necrolysis, Stevens 
Johnson Syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis 
(AGEP)), angioedema, drug 
induced hypersensitivity 
syndrome, drug rash with 
eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms (DRESS), rash 
erythematous or exfoliative, 
urticaria, eczema, lichen 
planus 
Musculoskeletal bleeding 
(haemarthrosis), arthritis, 
arthralgia, myalgia 
Glomerulonephritis, blood 
creatinine increased 
Fever 
Gynaecomastia 
Bruising 
Rash, pruritus, skin 
bleeding (purpura) 
Haematuria 
Bleeding at 
puncture site 
Bleeding time 
prolonged, 
neutrophil count 
decreased, platelet 
count decreased 
* Information related to clopidogrel with frequency “not known”. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose following clopidogrel administration may lead to prolonged bleeding time and subsequent 
bleeding complications. Appropriate therapy should be considered if bleedings are observed. No 
antidote to the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel has been found. If prompt correction of 
prolonged bleeding time is required, platelet transfusion may reverse the effects of clopidogrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, platelet aggregation inhibitors excl. heparin, ATC 
code: B01AC04.  
Mechanism of action 
Clopidogrel is a prodrug, one of whose metabolites is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. Clopidogrel 
must be metabolised by CYP450 enzymes to produce the active metabolite that inhibits platelet 
aggregation. The active metabolite of clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of adenosine 
diphosphate (ADP) to its platelet P2Y12 receptor and the subsequent ADP-mediated activation of the 
glycoprotein GPIIb/IIIa complex, thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation. Due to the irreversible 
binding, platelets exposed are affected for the remainder of their lifespan (approximately 7-10 days) 
and recovery of normal platelet function occurs at a rate consistent with platelet turnover. Platelet 
aggregation induced by agonists other than ADP is also inhibited by blocking the amplification of 
platelet activation by released ADP. 
Because the active metabolite is formed by CYP450 enzymes, some of which are polymorphic or 
subject to inhibition by other medicinal products, not all patients will have adequate platelet inhibition. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Repeated doses of 75 mg per day produced substantial inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation 
from the first day; this increased progressively and reached steady state between Day 3 and Day 7. At 
steady state, the average inhibition level observed with a dose of 75 mg per day was between 40% and 
60%. Platelet aggregation and bleeding time gradually returned to baseline values, generally within 
5 days after treatment was discontinued. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The safety and efficacy of clopidogrel have been evaluated in 7 double-blind studies involving over  
100,000 patients: the CAPRIE study, a comparison of clopidogrel to ASA, and the CURE, CLARITY, 
COMMIT, CHANCE, POINT and ACTIVE-A studies comparing clopidogrel to placebo, both 
medicinal products given in combination with ASA and other standard therapy.  
Recent myocardial infarction (MI), recent stroke or established peripheral arterial disease 
The CAPRIE study included 19,185 patients with atherothrombosis as manifested by recent 
myocardial infarction (<35 days), recent ischaemic stroke (between 7 days and 6 months) or 
established peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Patients were randomised to clopidogrel 75 mg/day or 
ASA 325 mg/day, and were followed for 1 to 3 years. In the myocardial infarction subgroup, most of 
the patients received ASA for the first few days following the acute myocardial infarction. 
Clopidogrel significantly reduced the incidence of new ischaemic events (combined end point of 
myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke and vascular death) when compared to ASA. In the intention 
to treat analysis, 939 events were observed in the clopidogrel group and 1,020 events with ASA 
(relative risk reduction (RRR) 8.7%, [95% CI: 0.2 to 16.4]; p = 0.045), which corresponds, for every 
1,000 patients treated for 2 years, to 10 [CI: 0 to 20] additional patients being prevented from 
experiencing a new ischaemic event. Analysis of total mortality as a secondary endpoint did not show 
any significant difference between clopidogrel (5.8%) and ASA (6.0%). 
In a subgroup analysis by qualifying condition (myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, and PAD) the 
benefit appeared to be strongest (achieving statistical significance at p = 0.003) in patients enrolled 
due to PAD (especially those who also had a history of myocardial infarction) (RRR = 23.7%; CI: 8.9 
to 36.2) and weaker (not significantly different from ASA) in stroke patients (RRR = 7.3%; CI: -5.7 to 
18.7 [p=0.258]). In patients who were enrolled in the trial on the sole basis of a recent myocardial 
infarction, clopidogrel was numerically inferior, but not statistically different from ASA (RRR = -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.0%; CI: -22.5 to 11.7 [p=0.639]). In addition, a subgroup analysis by age suggested that the benefit 
of clopidogrel in patients over 75 years was less than that observed in patients ≤75 years. 
Since the CAPRIE trial was not powered to evaluate efficacy of individual subgroups, it is not clear 
whether the differences in relative risk reduction across qualifying conditions are real, or a result of 
chance. 
Acute coronary syndrome 
The CURE study included 12,562 patients with non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome 
(unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction) and presenting within 24 hours of onset of the 
most recent episode of chest pain or symptoms consistent with ischaemia. Patients were required to 
have either ECG changes compatible with new ischaemia or elevated cardiac enzymes or troponin I or 
T to at least twice the upper limit of normal. Patients were randomised to clopidogrel (300 mg loading 
dose followed by 75 mg/day, N=6,259) or placebo (N=6,303), both given in combination with ASA 
(75-325 mg once daily) and other standard therapies. Patients were treated for up to one year. In 
CURE, 823 (6.6%) patients received concomitant GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonist therapy. Heparins 
were administered in more than 90% of the patients and the relative rate of bleeding between 
clopidogrel and placebo was not significantly affected by the concomitant heparin therapy.  
The number of patients experiencing the primary endpoint [cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial 
infarction (MI), or stroke] was 582 (9.3%) in the clopidogrel-treated group and 719 (11.4%) in the 
placebo-treated group, a 20% relative risk reduction (95% CI of 10%-28%; p=0.00009) for the 
clopidogrel-treated group (17% relative risk reduction when patients were treated conservatively, 29% 
when they underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) with or without stent 
and 10% when they underwent coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)). New cardiovascular events 
(primary endpoint) were prevented, with relative risk reductions of 22% (CI: 8.6, 33.4), 32% (CI: 
12.8, 46.4), 4% (CI: -26.9, 26.7), 6% (CI: -33.5, 34.3) and 14% (CI: -31.6, 44.2), during the 0-1, 1-3, 
3-6, 6-9 and 9-12 month study intervals, respectively. Thus, beyond 3 months of treatment, the benefit 
observed in the clopidogrel + ASA group was not further increased, whereas the risk of haemorrhage 
persisted (see section 4.4).  
The use of clopidogrel in CURE was associated with a decrease in the need of thrombolytic therapy 
(RRR = 43.3%; CI: 24.3%, 57.5%) and GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors (RRR = 18.2%; CI: 6.5%, 28.3%). The 
number of patients experiencing the co-primary endpoint (CV death, MI, stroke or refractory 
ischaemia) was 1,035 (16.5%) in the clopidogrel-treated group and 1,187 (18.8%) in the 
placebo-treated group, a 14% relative risk reduction (95% CI of 6%-21%, p=0.0005) for the 
clopidogrel-treated group. This benefit was mostly driven by the statistically significant reduction in 
the incidence of MI [287 (4.6%) in the clopidogrel treated group and 363 (5.8%) in the placebo 
treated group]. There was no observed effect on the rate of rehospitalisation for unstable angina. 
The results obtained in populations with different characteristics (e.g. unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
MI, low to high-risk levels, diabetes, need for revascularisation, age, gender, etc.) were consistent with 
the results of the primary analysis. In particular, in a post-hoc analysis in 2,172 patients (17% of the 
total CURE population) who underwent stent placement (Stent-CURE), the data showed that 
clopidogrel compared to placebo, demonstrated a significant RRR of 26.2% favouring clopidogrel for 
the co-primary endpoint (CV death, MI, stroke) and also a significant RRR of 23.9% for the second 
co-primary endpoint (CV death, MI, stroke or refractory ischaemia). Moreover, the safety profile of 
clopidogrel in this subgroup of patients did not raise any particular concern. Thus, the results from this 
subset are in line with the overall trial results.  
The benefits observed with clopidogrel were independent of other acute and long-term cardiovascular 
therapies (such as heparin/LMWH, GPIIb/IIIa antagonists, lipid lowering medicinal products, beta 
blockers, and ACE-inhibitors). The efficacy of clopidogrel was observed independently of the dose of 
ASA (75-325 mg once daily). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ST-segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction 
In patients with acute ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI), safety and efficacy of clopidogrel have 
been evaluated in 2 randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies, CLARITY, a prospective 
subgroup analysis of CLARITY (CLARITY PCI) and COMMIT. 
The CLARITY trial included 3,491 patients presenting within 12 hours of the onset of a ST elevation 
MI and planned for thrombolytic therapy. Patients received clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose, 
followed by 75 mg/day, n=1,752) or placebo (n=1,739), both in combination with ASA (150 to 
325 mg as a loading dose, followed by 75 to 162 mg/day), a fibrinolytic agent and, when appropriate, 
heparin. The patients were followed for 30 days. The primary endpoint was the occurrence of the 
composite of an occluded infarct-related artery on the predischarge angiogram, or death or recurrent 
MI before coronary angiography. For patients who did not undergo angiography, the primary endpoint 
was death or recurrent myocardial infarction by Day 8 or by hospital discharge. The patient 
population included 19.7% women and 29.2% patients ≥ 65 years. A total of 99.7% of patients 
received fibrinolytics (fibrin specific: 68.7%, non-fibrin specific: 31.1%), 89.5% heparin, 78.7% beta 
blockers, 54.7% ACE inhibitors and 63% statins. 
Fifteen percent (15.0%) of patients in the clopidogrel group and 21.7% in the placebo group reached 
the primary endpoint, representing an absolute reduction of 6.7% and a 36 % odds reduction in favour 
of clopidogrel (95% CI: 24, 47%; p < 0.001), mainly related to a reduction in occluded infarct-related 
arteries. This benefit was consistent across all prespecified subgroups including patients’ age and 
gender, infarct location, and type of fibrinolytic or heparin used. 
CLARITY PCI sub-group analysis involved 1,863 STEMI patients undergoing PCI. Patients 
receiving 300 mg loading dose (LD) of clopidogrel (n=933) had a significant reduction in incidence of 
cardiovascular death, MI or stroke following PCI compared to those receiving placebo (n=930) (3.6% 
with clopidogrel pre-treatment versus 6.2% with placebo, OR: 0.54; 95% CI: 0.35-0.85; p=0.008). 
The patients receiving 300 mg LD of clopidogrel had a significant reduction in incidence of 
cardiovascular death, MI or stroke through 30 days following PCI compared to those receiving 
placebo (7.5% with clopidogrel pre-treatment versus 12.0% with placebo, OR: 0.59; 95% CI: 
0.43-0.81; p=0.001). However, this composite endpoint when assessed in the overall population of the 
CLARITY study was not statistically significant as a secondary endpoint. No significant difference 
was observed in the rates of major or minor bleeding between both the treatments (2.0% with 
clopidogrel pre-treatment versus 1.9% with placebo, p>0.99). The findings of this analysis support the 
early use of clopidogrel loading dose in STEMI and the strategy of routine clopidogrel pretreatment in 
patients undergoing PCI. 
The 2x2 factorial design COMMIT trial included 45,852 patients presenting within 24 hours of the 
onset of the symptoms of suspected MI with supporting ECG abnormalities (i.e. ST elevation, ST 
depression or left bundle-branch block). Patients received clopidogrel (75 mg/day, n=22,961) or 
placebo (n=22,891), in combination with ASA (162 mg/day), for 28 days or until hospital discharge. 
The co-primary endpoints were death from any cause and the first occurrence of re-infarction, stroke 
or death. The population included 27.8% women, 58.4% patients ≥ 60 years (26% ≥ 70 years) and 
54.5% patients who received fibrinolytics. 
Clopidogrel significantly reduced the relative risk of death from any cause by 7% (p=0.029), and the 
relative risk of the combination of re-infarction, stroke or death by 9% (p=0.002), representing an 
absolute reduction of 0.5% and 0.9%, respectively. This benefit was consistent across age, gender and 
with or without fibrinolytics, and was observed as early as 24 hours. 
Clopidogrel 600 mg Loading Dose in Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients Undergoing PCI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CURRENT-OASIS-7 (Clopidogrel and Aspirin Optimal Dose Usage to Reduce Recurrent Events 
Seventh Organization to Assess Strategies in Ischemic Syndromes)   
This randomised factorial trial included 25,086 individuals with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) 
intended for early PCI. Patients were randomly assigned to either double-dose (600 mg on Day 1, then 
150 mg on Days 2-7, then 75 mg daily) versus standard-dose (300 mg on Day 1 then 75 mg daily) 
clopidogrel, and high-dose (300-325 mg daily) versus low-dose (75-100-mg daily) ASA. The 
24,835 enrolled ACS patients underwent coronary angiography and 17,263 received PCI. Among the 
17,263 patients receiving PCI treatment, when compared with the standard dose, double-dose 
clopidogrel reduced the rate of the primary endpoint (3.9% vs 4.5% adjusted HR= 0.86, 95% CI 
0.74-0.99, p=0.039) and significantly reduced stent thrombosis (1.6% vs 2.3%, HR: 0.68; 95% CI: 
0.55-0.85; p=0.001). Major bleeding was more common with double-dose than with standard-dose 
clopidogrel (1.6% vs 1.1%, HR=1.41, 95% CI 1.09-1.83, p=0.009). In this trial, clopidogrel 600 mg 
loading dose has shown consistent efficacy in patients age ≥75 years of age and patients <75 years of 
age. 
ARMYDA-6 MI (The Antiplatelet therapy for Reduction of Myocardial Damage during Angioplasty 
- Myocardial Infarction)  
This randomised, prospective, international, multicenter trial evaluated pre-treatment with a 600 mg 
versus 300 mg clopidogrel LD in the setting of urgent PCI for STEMI. Patients received a clopidogrel 
600 mg LD (n=103) or clopidogrel 300 mg LD (n=98) prior to PCI, then were prescribed 75 mg/day 
from the day after PCI up to 1 year. Patients receiving a 600 mg LD of clopidogrel had a significantly 
reduced infarct size compared to those receiving a 300 mg LD. There was less frequent thrombolysis 
in MI flow Grade <3 after PCI in 600 mg LD (5.8% versus 16.3%, p=0.031), improved LVEF at 
discharge (52.1±9.5% versus 48.8±11.3%, p=0.026), and 30-day major adverse cardiovascular events 
were fewer (5.8% versus 15%, p=0.049). No increase in bleeding or entry-site complications were 
observed (secondary endpoints at Day 30). 
HORIZONS-AMI (Harmonizing Outcomes with Revascularization and Stents in Acute Myocardial 
Infarction) 
This post-hoc analysis trial was conducted to evaluate whether a 600 mg clopidogrel LD provides 
faster and greater inhibition of platelet activation. The analysis examined the impact of a LD of 
600 mg compared with 300 mg on 30-day clinical outcomes in 3,311 patients from the main trial 
(n=1,153; 300 mg LD group; n=2,158; 600 mg LD group) before cardiac catheterization followed by 
75 mg/day dose for ≥6 months post-discharge. The results showed significantly lower 30-day 
unadjusted rates of mortality (1.9% versus 3.1%, p=0.03), reinfarction (1.3% versus 2.3%, p=0.02), 
and deﬁnite or probable stent thrombosis (1.7% versus 2.8%, p=0.04) with the 600 mg LD without 
higher bleeding rates. By multivariable analysis, a 600 mg LD was an independent predictor of lower 
rates of 30-day major adverse cardiac events (HR: 0.72 [95% CI: 0.53 0.98], p=0.04). Major bleeding 
rate (non-CABG related) was 6.1% in 600 mg LD group and 9.4% in 300 mg LD group (p=0.0005). 
Minor bleeding rate was 11.3% in 600 mg LD group and 13.8% in 300 mg LD group (p=0.03).    
Long Term (12 Months) Treatment with Clopidogrel in STEMI Patients after PCI 
CREDO (Clopidogrel for the Reduction of Adverse Events During Observation) 
This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in the United States and 
Canada to evaluate the benefit of long-term (12 month) treatment with clopidogrel after PCI. There 
were 2,116 patients randomised to receive a 300 mg clopidogrel LD (n=1,053) or placebo (n=1,063) 
3 to 24 hours before PCI. All patients also received 325 mg of aspirin. Thereafter, all patients received 
clopidogrel 75 mg/day through Day 28 in both groups. From Day 29 through 12 months, patients in 
clopidogrel group received 75 mg/day clopidogrel and in control group received placebo. Both groups 
received ASA throughout the study (81 to 325 mg/day). At 1-year, significant reduction in the 
combined risk of death, MI or stroke was observed with clopidogrel (26.9% relative reduction, 95% 
CI: 3.9%-44.4%; p=0.02; absolute reduction 3%) compared to placebo. No significant increase in the 
rate of major bleeding (8.8% with clopidogrel versus 6.7% with placebo, p=0.07) or minor bleeding 
(5.3% with clopidogrel versus 5.6% with placebo, p=0.84) at 1-year was observed. The major finding 
 
 
 
 
of this study is that continuation of clopidogrel and ASA for at least 1-year leads to a statistically and 
clinically significant reduction in major thrombotic events.  
EXCELLENT (Efficacy of Xience/Promus Versus Cypher to Reduce Late Loss After Stenting) 
This prospective, open-label, randomised trial was conducted in Korea to evaluate whether 6-month 
dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) would be noninferior to 12-month DAPT after implantation of drug-
eluting stents. The study included 1,443 patients undergoing implantation who were randomised to 
receive 6-month DAPT (ASA 100-200 mg/day plus clopidogrel 75 mg/day for 6 months and 
thereafter ASA alone up to 12 months) or 12-month DAPT (ASA 100-200 mg/day plus clopidogrel 
75 mg/day for 12 months). No significant difference was observed in the incidence of target vessel 
failure (composite of cardiac death, MI or target vessel revascularization) which was primary end 
point between 6-month and 12-month DAPT groups (HR: 1.14; 95% CI: 0.70-1.86; p=0.60). Also, the 
study showed no significant difference in the safety end point (composite of death, MI, stroke, stent 
thrombosis or TIMI major bleeding) between 6-month and 12-month DAPT groups (HR: 1.15; 95% 
CI: 0.64-2.06; p=0.64). The major finding of this study was that 6-month DAPT was non-inferior to 
12-month DAPT in the risk of target vessel failure. 
De-escalation of P2Y12 Inhibitor Agents in Acute Coronary Syndrome  
Switching from a more potent P2Y12 receptor inhibitor to clopidogrel in association with aspirin after 
acute phase in Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) has been evaluated in two randomised investigator-
sponsored studies (ISS) – TOPIC and TROPICAL-ACS – with clinical outcome data. 
The clinical benefit provided by the more potent P2Y12 inhibitors, ticagrelor and prasugrel, in their 
pivotal studies is related to a significant reduction in recurrent ischaemic events (including acute and 
subacute stent thrombosis (ST), myocardial infarction (MI), and urgent revascularization). Although 
the ischaemic benefit was consistent throughout the first year, greater reduction in ischaemic 
recurrence after ACS was observed during the initial days following the treatment initiation.  In 
contrast, post-hoc analyses demonstrated statistically significant increases in the bleeding risk with the 
more potent P2Y12 inhibitors, occurring predominantly during the maintenance phase, after the first 
month post-ACS. TOPIC and TROPICAL-ACS were designed to study how to mitigate the bleeding 
events while maintaining efficacy. 
TOPIC (Timing Of Platelet Inhibition after acute Coronary syndrome) 
This randomised, open-label trial included ACS patients requiring Percutaneous Coronary 
Intervention (PCI). Patients on aspirin and a more potent P2Y12 blocker and without adverse event at 
one month were assigned to switch to fixed-dose aspirin plus clopidogrel (de-escalated dual 
antiplatelet therapy (DAPT)) or continuation of their drug regimen (unchanged DAPT).   
Overall, 645 of 646 patients with ST-elevation-MI (STEMI) or non-ST-elevation-MI (NSTEMI) or 
unstable angina were analysed (de-escalated DAPT (n=322); unchanged DAPT (n=323)). Follow-up 
at one year was performed for 316 patients (98.1%) in the de-escalated DAPT group and 318 patients 
(98.5%) in the unchanged DAPT group. The median follow-up for both groups was 359 days. The 
characteristics of the studied cohort were similar in the 2 groups. 
The primary outcome, a composite of cardiovascular death, stroke, urgent revascularization, and 
BARC (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium) bleeding ≥2 at 1 year post ACS, occurred in 
43 patients (13.4%) in the de-escalated DAPT group and in 85 patients (26.3%) in the unchanged 
DAPT group (p<0.01). This statistically significant difference was mainly driven by fewer bleeding 
events, with no difference reported in ischaemic endpoints (p=0.36), while BARC ≥2 bleeding 
occurred less frequently in the de-escalated DAPT group (4.0%) versus 14.9%  in the unchanged 
DAPT group (p<0.01). Bleeding events defined as all BARC occurred in 30 patients (9.3%) in the 
de-escalated DAPT group and in 76 patients (23.5%) in the unchanged DAPT group (p<0.01). 
TROPICAL-ACS (Testing Responsiveness to Platelet Inhibition on Chronic Antiplatelet Treatment 
for Acute Coronary Syndromes) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This randomised, open-label trial included 2,610 biomarker-positive ACS patients after successful 
PCI. Patients were randomised to receive either prasugrel 5 or 10 mg/d (Days 0-14) (n=1306), or 
prasugrel 5 or 10 mg/d (Days 0-7) then de-escalated to clopidogrel 75 mg/d (Days 8-14) (n=1304), in 
combination with ASA (<100 mg/day).  At Day 14, platelet function testing (PFT) was performed. 
The prasugrel-only patients were continued on prasugrel for 11.5 months.   
The de-escalated patients underwent high platelet reactivity (HPR) testing.  If HPR≥46 units, the 
patients were escalated back to prasugrel 5 or 10 mg/d for 11.5 months; if HPR<46 units, the patients 
continued on clopidogrel 75 mg/d for 11.5 months.  Therefore, the guided de-escalation arm had 
patients on either prasugrel (40%) or clopidogrel (60%). All patients were continued on aspirin and 
were followed for one year.  
The primary endpoint (the combined incidence of CV death, MI, stroke and BARC bleeding grade ≥2 
at 12 months) was met showing non-inferiority. Ninety-five patients (7%) in the guided de-escalation 
group and 118 patients (9%) in the control group (p non-inferiority=0.0004) had an event. The guided 
de-escalation did not result in an increased combined risk of ischaemic events (2.5% in the de-
escalation group vs 3.2% in the control group; p non-inferiority=0.0115), nor in the key secondary 
endpoint of BARC bleeding ≥2 ((5%) in the de-escalation group versus 6% in the control group 
(p=0.23)). The cumulative incidence of all bleeding events (BARC class 1 to 5) was 9% (114 events) 
in the guided de-escalation group versus 11% (137 events) in the control group (p=0.14). 
Dual Antiplatelet Therapy (DAPT) in Acute Minor IS or Moderate to High-risk TIA 
DAPT with combination clopidogrel and ASA as a treatment to prevent stroke after an acute minor IS 
or moderate to high-risk TIA has been evaluated in two randomised investigator-sponsored studies 
(ISS) – CHANCE and POINT – with clinical safety and efficacy outcome data. 
CHANCE (Clopidogrel in High-risk patients with Acute Non-disabling Cerebrovascular Events) 
This randomised, double-blinded, multicenter, placebo-controlled clinical trial included 5,170 Chinese 
patients with acute TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) or acute minor stroke (NIHSS ≤3). Patients in both groups 
received open-label ASA on Day 1 (with the dose ranging from 75 to 300 mg, at the discretion of the 
treating physician). Patients randomly assigned to the clopidogrel–ASA group received a loading dose 
of 300 mg of clopidogrel on Day 1, followed by a dose of 75 mg of clopidogrel per day on days 2 
through 90, and ASA at a dose of 75 mg per day on days 2 through 21. Patients randomly assigned to 
the ASA group received a placebo version of clopidogrel on days 1 through 90 and ASA at a dose of 
75 mg per day on days 2 through 90. 
The primary efficacy outcome was any new stroke event (ischaemic and haemorrhagic) in the first 90 
days after acute minor IS or high-risk TIA. This occurred in 212 patients (8.2%) in the clopidogrel-
ASA group compared with 303 patients (11.7%) in the ASA group (hazard ratio [HR], 0.68; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.57 to 0.81; P<0.001). IS occurred in 204 patients (7.9%) in the 
clopidogrel–ASA group compared with 295 (11.4%) in the ASA group (HR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.56 to 
0.81; P<0.001). Haemorrhagic stroke occurred in 8 patients in each of the two study groups (0.3% of 
each group). Moderate or severe haemorrhage occurred in seven patients (0.3%) in the clopidogrel–
ASA group and in eight (0.3%) in the ASA group (P = 0.73). The rate of any bleeding event was 2.3% 
in the clopidogrel–ASA group as compared with 1.6% in the ASA group (HR, 1.41; 95% CI, 0.95 to 
2.10; P = 0.09).  
POINT (Platelet-Oriented Inhibition in New TIA and Minor Ischaemic Stroke) 
This randomised, double-blinded, multicenter, placebo-controlled clinical trial included 4,881 
international patients with acute TIA (ABCD2 score ≥4) or minor stroke (NIHSS ≤3). All patients in 
both groups received open-label ASA on Day 1 to 90 (50-325 mg depending upon the discretion of the 
treating physician). Patients randomly assigned to the clopidogrel group received a loading dose of 
600 mg of clopidogrel on Day 1, followed by 75 mg of clopidogrel per day on days 2 through 90. 
Patients randomly assigned to the placebo group received clopidogrel placebo on days 1 through 90. 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
The primary efficacy outcome was a composite of major ischaemic events (IS, MI or death from an 
ischaemic vascular event) at Day 90. This occurred in 121 patients (5.0%) receiving clopidogrel plus 
ASA compared with 160 patients (6.5%) receiving ASA alone (HR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.59 to 0.95; 
P = 0.02). The secondary outcome of IS occurred in 112 patients (4.6%) receiving clopidogrel plus 
ASA compared with 155 patients (6.3%) receiving ASA alone (HR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.56 to 0.92; 
P = 0.01). The primary safety outcome of major haemorrhage occurred in 23 of 2,432 patients (0.9%) 
receiving clopidogrel plus ASA and in 10 of 2,449 patients (0.4%) receiving ASA alone (HR, 2.32; 
95% CI, 1.10 to 4.87; P = 0.02). Minor haemorrhage occurred in 40 patients (1.6%) receiving 
clopidogrel plus ASA and in 13 (0.5%) receiving ASA alone (HR, 3.12; 95% CI, 1.67 to 5.83; 
P < 0.001). 
CHANCE and POINT Time Course Analysis 
There was no efficacy benefit of continuing DAPT beyond 21 days. A time-course distribution of 
major ischaemic events and major haemorrhages by treatment assignment was done to analyse the 
impact of the short-term time-course of DAPT. 
Table 1- Time course distribution of major ischaemic events and major haemorrhages by 
treatment assignment in CHANCE and POINT 
No. of events 
Outcomes in  
CHANCE and 
POINT 
Major ischaemic 
events 
Major Haemorrhage 
Treatment 
assignment 
ASA (n=5,035) 
CLP+ASA(n=5,016) 
Difference 
ASA (n=5,035) 
CLP+ASA(n=5,016) 
Difference 
Total 
1st week 
2nd week 
3rd week 
458 
328 
130 
 18 
 30 
-12 
330 
217 
113 
  4 
 10 
-6 
36 
30 
 6 
 2 
 4 
-2 
21 
14 
 7 
 1 
 2 
-1 
Atrial fibrillation 
The ACTIVE-W and ACTIVE-A studies, separate trials in the ACTIVE program, included patients 
with atrial fibrillation (AF) who had at least one risk factor for vascular events. Based on enrollment 
criteria, physicians enrolled patients in ACTIVE-W if they were candidates for vitamin K antagonist 
(VKA) therapy (such as warfarin). The ACTIVE-A study included patients who could not receive 
VKA therapy because they were unable or unwilling to receive the treatment. 
The ACTIVE-W study demonstrated that anticoagulant treatment with vitamin K antagonists was 
more effective than with clopidogrel and ASA. 
The ACTIVE-A study (N=7,554) was a multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study which compared clopidogrel 75 mg/day + ASA (N=3,772) to placebo + ASA (N=3,782). The 
recommended dose for ASA was 75 to 100 mg/day. Patients were treated for up to 5 years. 
Patients randomised in the ACTIVE program were those presenting with documented AF, i.e., either 
permanent AF or at least 2 episodes of intermittent AF in the past 6 months, and had at least one of 
the following risk factors: age 75 years or age 55 to 74 years and either diabetes mellitus requiring 
drug therapy, or documented previous MI or documented coronary artery disease; treated for systemic 
hypertension; prior stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), or non-CNS systemic embolus; left 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ventricular dysfunction with left ventricular ejection fraction <45%; or documented peripheral 
vascular disease. The mean CHADS2 score was 2.0 (range 0-6). 
The major exclusion criteria for patients were documented peptic ulcer disease within the previous 
6 months; prior intracerebral haemorrhage; significant thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 50 x 109/l); 
requirement for clopidogrel or oral anticoagulants (OAC); or intolerance to any of the two 
compounds. 
Seventy-three percent (73%) of patients enrolled into the ACTIVE-A study were unable to take VKA 
due to physician assessment, inability to comply with INR (international normalised ratio) 
monitoring, predisposition to falling or head trauma, or specific risk of bleeding; for 26% of the 
patients, the physician’s decision was based on the patient’s unwillingness to take VKA.  
The patient population included 41.8 % women. The mean age was 71 years, 41.6% of patients were 
≥75 years. A total of 23.0% of patients received anti-arrhythmics, 52.1% beta-blockers, 54.6% ACE 
inhibitors, and 25.4% statins. 
The number of patients who reached the primary endpoint (time to first occurrence of stroke, MI, 
non-CNS systemic embolism or vascular death) was 832 (22.1%) in the group treated with 
clopidogrel + ASA and 924 (24.4%) in the placebo + ASA group (relative risk reduction of 11.1%; 
95% CI of 2.4% to 19.1%; p=0.013), primarily due to a large reduction in the incidence of strokes. 
Strokes occurred in 296 (7.8%) patients receiving clopidogrel + ASA and 408 (10.8%) patients 
receiving placebo + ASA (relative risk reduction, 28.4%; 95% CI, 16.8% to 38.3%; p=0.00001).  
Paediatric population 
In a dose escalation study of 86 neonates or infants up to 24 months of age at risk for thrombosis 
(PICOLO), clopidogrel was evaluated at consecutive doses of 0.01, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg in neonates and 
infants and 0.15 mg/kg only in neonates. The dose of 0.2 mg/kg achieved the mean percent inhibition 
of 49.3% (5 µM ADP-induced platelet aggregation) which was comparable to that of adults taking 
clopidogrel 75 mg/day. 
In a randomised, double-blind, parallel-group study (CLARINET), 906 paediatric patients (neonates 
and infants) with cyanotic congenital heart disease palliated with a systemic-to-pulmonary arterial 
shunt were randomised to receive clopidogrel 0.2 mg/kg (n=467) or placebo (n=439) along with 
concomitant background therapy up to the time of second stage surgery. The mean time between shunt 
palliation and first administration of study medicinal product was 20 days. Approximately 88% of 
patients received concomitant ASA (range of 1 to 23 mg/kg/day). There was no significant difference 
between groups in the primary composite endpoint of death, shunt thrombosis or cardiac-related 
intervention prior to 120 days of age following an event considered of thrombotic nature (89 [19.1%] 
for the clopidogrel group and 90 [20.5%] for the placebo group) (see section 4.2). Bleeding was the 
most frequently reported adverse reaction in both clopidogrel and placebo groups; however, there was 
no significant difference in the bleeding rate between groups. In the long-term safety follow-up of this 
study, 26 patients with the shunt still in place at one year of age received clopidogrel up to 18 months 
of age. No new safety concerns were noted during this long-term follow-up. 
The CLARINET and the PICOLO trials were conducted using a constituted solution of clopidogrel. In 
a relative bioavailability study in adults, the constituted solution of clopidogrel showed a similar 
extent and slightly higher rate of absorption of the main circulating (inactive) metabolite compared to 
the authorised tablet. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After single and repeated oral doses of 75 mg per day, clopidogrel is rapidly absorbed. Mean peak 
plasma levels of unchanged clopidogrel (approximately 2.2-2.5 ng/ml after a single 75 mg oral dose) 
occurred approximately 45 minutes after dosing. Absorption is at least 50%, based on urinary 
excretion of clopidogrel metabolites.  
Distribution 
Clopidogrel and the main circulating (inactive) metabolite bind reversibly in vitro to human plasma 
proteins (98% and 94% respectively). The binding is non-saturable in vitro over a wide concentration 
range.  
Biotransformation 
Clopidogrel is extensively metabolised by the liver. In vitro and in vivo, clopidogrel is metabolised 
according to two main metabolic pathways: one mediated by esterases and leading to hydrolysis into 
its inactive carboxylic acid derivative (85% of circulating metabolites), and one mediated by multiple 
cytochromes P450. Clopidogrel is first metabolised to a 2-oxo-clopidogrel intermediate metabolite. 
Subsequent metabolism of the 2-oxo-clopidogrel intermediate metabolite results in formation of the 
active metabolite, a thiol derivative of clopidogrel. The active metabolite is formed mostly by 
CYP2C19 with contributions from several other CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and 
CYP3A4. The active thiol metabolite which has been isolated in vitro, binds rapidly and irreversibly 
to platelet receptors, thus inhibiting platelet aggregation. 
The Cmax of the active metabolite is twice as high following a single 300 mg clopidogrel loading dose 
as it is after four days of 75 mg maintenance dose. Cmax occurs approximately 30 to 60 minutes after 
dosing.  
Elimination 
Following an oral dose of 14C-labelled clopidogrel in man, approximately 50% was excreted in the 
urine and approximately 46% in the faeces in the 120-hour interval after dosing. After a single oral 
dose of 75 mg, clopidogrel has a half-life of approximately 6 hours. The elimination half-life of the 
main circulating (inactive) metabolite was 8 hours after single and repeated administration. 
Pharmacogenetics 
CYP2C19 is involved in the formation of both the active metabolite and the 2-oxo-clopidogrel 
intermediate metabolite. Clopidogrel active metabolite pharmacokinetics and antiplatelet effects, as 
measured by ex vivo platelet aggregation assays, differ according to CYP2C19 genotype.  
The CYP2C19*1 allele corresponds to fully functional metabolism while the CYP2C19*2 and 
CYP2C19*3 alleles are nonfunctional. The CYP2C19*2 and CYP2C19*3 alleles account for the 
majority of reduced function alleles in Caucasian (85%) and Asian (99%) poor metabolisers. Other 
alleles associated with absent or reduced metabolism are less frequent and include CYP2C19*4, *5, 
*6, *7, and *8. A patient with poor metaboliser status will possess two loss-of-function alleles as 
defined above. Published frequencies for the poor CYP2C19 metaboliser genotypes are approximately 
2% for Caucasians, 4% for Blacks and 14% for Chinese. Tests are available to determine a patient’s 
CYP2C19 genotype.  
A crossover study in 40 healthy subjects, 10 each in the four CYP2C19 metaboliser groups (ultrarapid, 
extensive, intermediate and poor), evaluated pharmacokinetic and antiplatelet responses using 300 mg 
followed by 75 mg/day and 600 mg followed by 150 mg/day, each for a total of 5 days (steady state). 
No substantial differences in active metabolite exposure and mean inhibition of platelet aggregation 
(IPA) were observed between ultrarapid, extensive and intermediate metabolisers. In poor 
metabolisers, active metabolite exposure was decreased by 63-71% compared to extensive 
metabolisers. After the 300 mg/75 mg dose regimen, antiplatelet responses were decreased in the poor 
metabolisers with mean IPA (5 μM ADP) of 24% (24 hours) and 37% (Day 5) as compared to IPA of 
39% (24 hours) and 58% (Day 5) in the extensive metabolisers and 37% (24 hours) and 60% (Day 5) 
in the intermediate metabolisers. When poor metabolisers received the 600 mg/150 mg regimen, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active metabolite exposure was greater than with the 300 mg/75 mg regimen. In addition, IPA was 
32% (24 hours) and 61% (Day 5), which were greater than in the poor metabolisers receiving the 
300 mg/75 mg regimen, and were similar to the other CYP2C19 metaboliser groups receiving the 
300 mg/75 mg regimen. An appropriate dose regimen for this patient population has not been 
established in clinical outcome trials. 
Consistent with the above results, in a meta-analysis including 6 studies of 335 clopidogrel-treated 
subjects at steady state, it was shown that active metabolite exposure was decreased by 28% for 
intermediate metabolisers, and 72% for poor metabolisers while platelet aggregation inhibition (5 μM 
ADP) was decreased with differences in IPA of 5.9% and 21.4%, respectively, when compared to 
extensive metabolisers. 
The influence of CYP2C19 genotype on clinical outcomes in patients treated with clopidogrel has not 
been evaluated in prospective, randomised, controlled trials. There have been a number of 
retrospective analyses, however, to evaluate this effect in patients treated with clopidogrel for whom 
there are genotyping results: CURE (n=2721), CHARISMA (n=2428), CLARITY-TIMI 28 (n=227), 
TRITON-TIMI 38 (n=1477), and ACTIVE-A (n=601), as well as a number of published cohort 
studies. 
In TRITON-TIMI 38 and 3 of the cohort studies (Collet, Sibbing, Giusti) the combined group of 
patients with either intermediate or poor metaboliser status had a higher rate of cardiovascular events 
(death, myocardial infarction, and stroke) or stent thrombosis compared to extensive metabolisers. 
In CHARISMA and one cohort study (Simon), an increased event rate was observed only in poor 
metabolisers when compared to extensive metabolisers. 
In CURE, CLARITY, ACTIVE-A and one of the cohort studies (Trenk), no increased event rate was 
observed based on metaboliser status. 
None of these analyses were adequately sized to detect differences in outcome in poor metabolisers. 
Special populations 
The pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite of clopidogrel is not known in these special 
populations. 
Renal impairment 
After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day in subjects with severe renal disease (creatinine 
clearance from 5 to 15 ml/min) inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was lower (25%) than 
that observed in healthy subjects, however, the prolongation of bleeding time was similar to that seen 
in healthy subjects receiving 75 mg of clopidogrel per day. In addition, clinical tolerance was good in 
all patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day for 10 days in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment, inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was similar to that observed in healthy 
subjects. The mean bleeding time prolongation was also similar in the two groups.  
Race 
The prevalence of CYP2C19 alleles that result in intermediate and poor CYP2C19 metabolism differs 
according to race/ethnicity (see Pharmacogenetics). From literature, limited data in Asian populations 
are available to assess the clinical implication of genotyping of this CYP on clinical outcome events. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During non clinical studies in rat and baboon, the most frequently observed effects were liver 
changes. These occurred at doses representing at least 25 times the exposure seen in humans receiving 
the clinical dose of 75 mg/day and were a consequence of an effect on hepatic metabolising enzymes. 
No effect on hepatic metabolising enzymes was observed in humans receiving clopidogrel at the 
therapeutic dose. 
At very high doses, a poor gastric tolerability (gastritis, gastric erosions and/or vomiting) of 
clopidogrel was also reported in rat and baboon.  
There was no evidence of carcinogenic effect when clopidogrel was administered for 78 weeks to 
mice and 104 weeks to rats when given at doses up to 77 mg/kg per day (representing at least 25 times 
the exposure seen in humans receiving the clinical dose of 75 mg/day). 
Clopidogrel has been tested in a range of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies, and showed no 
genotoxic activity.  
Clopidogrel was found to have no effect on the fertility of male and female rats and was not 
teratogenic in either rats or rabbits. When given to lactating rats, clopidogrel caused a slight delay in 
the development of the offspring. Specific pharmacokinetic studies performed with radiolabelled 
clopidogrel have shown that the parent compound or its metabolites are excreted in the milk. 
Consequently, a direct effect (slight toxicity), or an indirect effect (low palatability) cannot be 
excluded. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core: 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Crospovidone (type A) 
Macrogol 6000 
Hydrogenated castor oil 
Film coating: 
Polyvinyl alcohol 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Talc 
Macrogol 3000 (Polyethyleneglycol) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture and light. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Blister of OPA/Al/PVC-Al containing 7, 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 84, 90 and 100 film-coated tablets in the 
box. 
Calendar Blister of OPA/Al/PVC-Al containing 7, 14, 28, 56, 84 film-coated tablets in the box. 
Perforated unit dose blister of OPA/Al/PVC-Al containing 30x1 and 50x1 film-coated tablets in the 
box. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taw Pharma (Ireland) Limited 
104 Lower Baggot Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/559/001-016 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 21 September 2009 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto 
Šmarješka cesta 6 
8501 Novo mesto 
Slovenia 
TAD Pharma GmbH 
Heinz-Lohmann-Straße 5 
27472 Cuxhaven 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Not applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg film-coated tablets 
clopidogrel 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of clopidogrel (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
It also contains hydrogenated castor oil. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
30x1 film-coated tablets 
50 film-coated tablets 
50x1 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
84 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture and light. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taw Pharma (Ireland) Limited 
104 Lower Baggot Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
7 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/001 
14 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/002 
28 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/003 
30 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/004 
50 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/005 
56 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/006 
84 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/007 
90 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/008 
100 film-coated tablets: EU/1/09/559/009 
30x1 film-coated tablets EU/1/09/559/010 
50x1 film-coated tablets EU/1/09/559/011 
7 film-coated tablets - calendar blister: EU/1/09/559/012 
14 film-coated tablets - calendar blister: EU/1/09/559/013 
28 film-coated tablets - calendar blister: EU/1/09/559/014 
56 film-coated tablets - calendar blister: EU/1/09/559/015 
84 film-coated tablets - calendar blister: EU/1/09/559/016 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER (Boxes of 7, 14, 28, 30, 30x1, 50, 50x1, 56, 84, 90 and 100) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg film-coated tablets 
clopidogrel 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taw Pharma (Ireland) Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
CALENDAR BLISTER (boxes of 7, 14, 28, 56 or 84 tablets) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg film-coated tablets 
clopidogrel 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Taw Pharma (Ireland) Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
Week 1 
Week 2 (for boxes of 14, 28, 56, 84) 
Week 3 (for boxes of 28, 56, 84) 
Week 4 (for boxes of 28, 56, 84) 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 75 mg film-coated tablets 
clopidogrel 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
 important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
Possible side effects 
How to store Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is and what it is used for 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains clopidogrel and belongs to a group of medicines called antiplatelet 
medicinal products. Platelets are very small structures in the blood, which clump together during blood 
clotting. By preventing this clumping, antiplatelet medicinal products reduce the chances of blood 
clots forming (a process called thrombosis). 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is taken by adults to prevent blood clots (thrombi) forming in hardened 
blood vessels (arteries), a process known as atherothrombosis, which can lead to atherothrombotic 
events (such as stroke, heart attack, or death). 
- 
- 
- 
You have been prescribed Clopidogrel Taw Pharma to help prevent blood clots and reduce the risk of 
these severe events because: 
- 
- 
You have a condition of hardening of arteries (also known as atherosclerosis), and 
You have previously experienced a heart attack, stroke or have a condition known as peripheral 
arterial disease, or 
You have experienced a severe type of chest pain known as ‘unstable angina’ or ‘myocardial 
infarction’ (heart attack). For the treatment of this condition your doctor may have placed a stent 
in the blocked or narrowed artery to restore effective blood flow. You may also be given 
acetylsalicylic acid (a substance present in many medicines used to relieve pain and lower fever 
as well as to prevent blood clotting) by your doctor. 
You have experienced symptoms of a stroke which go away within a short period of time (also 
known as transient ischaemic attack) or an ischaemic stroke mild in severity. You may also be 
given acetylsalicylic acid by your doctor starting within the first 24 hours. 
You have an irregular heartbeat, a condition called ‘atrial fibrillation’, and you cannot take 
medicines known as ‘oral anticoagulants’ (vitamin K antagonists) which prevent new clots from 
forming and prevent existing clots from growing. You should have been told that ‘oral 
anticoagulants’ are more effective than acetylsalicylic acid or the combined use of Clopidogrel 
Taw Pharma and acetylsalicylic acid for this condition. Your doctor should have prescribed 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma plus acetylsalicylic acid if you cannot take ‘oral anticoagulants’ and 
you do not have a risk of major bleeding. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
• 
if you are allergic to clopidogrel or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6); 
if you have a medical condition that is currently causing bleeding such as a stomach ulcer or 
bleeding within the brain; 
if you suffer from severe liver disease; 
• 
• 
If you think any of these apply to you, or if you are in any doubt at all, consult your doctor before 
taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma if any of the situations mentioned below 
apply to you: 
• 
if you have a risk of bleeding such as 
-  a medical condition that puts you at risk of internal bleeding (such as a stomach ulcer) 
-  a blood disorder that makes you prone to internal bleeding (bleeding inside any tissues, 
organs or joints of your body). 
-  a recent serious injury 
-  a recent surgery (including dental). 
-  a planned surgery (including dental) in the next seven days. 
if you have had a clot in an artery of your brain (ischaemic stroke) which occurred within the 
last seven days. 
if you have kidney or liver disease. 
if you have had an allergy or reaction to any medicine used to treat your disease. 
if you had a past medical history of non-traumatic brain haemorrhage. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
While you are taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma: 
• 
• 
You should tell your doctor if a surgery (including dental) is planned. 
You should also tell your doctor immediately if you develop a medical condition (also known as 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura or TTP) that includes fever and bruising under the skin 
that may appear as red pinpoint dots, with or without unexplained extreme tiredness, confusion, 
yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) (see section 4 ‘Possible side effects’). 
If you cut or injure yourself, it may take longer than usual for bleeding to stop. This is linked to 
the way your medicine works as it prevents the ability of blood clots to form. For minor cuts 
and injuries e.g., cutting yourself, shaving, this is usually of no concern. However, if you are 
concerned by your bleeding, you should contact your doctor straightaway (see section 4 
‘Possible side effects’). 
Your doctor may order blood tests. 
• 
• 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children because it does not work. 
Other medicines and Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
Some other medicines may influence the use of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma or vice versa. 
You should specifically tell your doctor if you take  
- 
medicines that may increase your risk of bleeding such as: 
o  oral anticoagulants, medicines used to reduce blood clotting, 
o  a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicine, usually used to treat painful and/or inflammatory 
conditions of muscle or joints,  
o  heparin, or any other injectable medicine used to reduce blood clotting, 
o 
ticlopidine, or other antiplatelet agents, 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (including but not restricted to fluoxetine or 
fluvoxamine), medicines usually used to treat depression,  
rifampicin (used to treat severe infections) 
o 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
omeprazole or esomeprazole, medicines to treat upset stomach, 
fluconazole or voriconazole, medicines to treat fungal infections, 
efavirenz, or other anti-retroviral medicines (used to treat HIV infections), 
carbamazepine, a medicine to treat some forms of epilepsy, 
moclobemide, medicine to treat depression, 
repaglinide, medicine to treat diabetes, 
paclitaxel, medicine to treat cancer, 
opioids: while you are treated with clopidogrel, you should inform your doctor before being 
prescribed any opioid (used to treat severe pain), 
rosuvastatin (used to lower your cholesterol level). 
If you have experienced severe chest pain (unstable angina or heart attack), transient ischaemic attack 
or ischaemic stroke in mild severity, you may be prescribed Clopidogrel Taw Pharma in combination 
with acetylsalicylic acid, a substance present in many medicines used to relieve pain and lower fever. 
An occasional use of acetylsalicylic acid (no more than 1,000 mg in any 24 hour period) should 
generally not cause a problem, but prolonged use in other circumstances should be discussed with your 
doctor. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma with food and drink  
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma may be taken with or without food. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
It is preferable not to take this medicine during pregnancy. 
If you are pregnant or suspect that you are pregnant, you should tell your doctor or your pharmacist 
before taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma. If you become pregnant while taking Clopidogrel Taw 
Pharma, consult your doctor immediately as it is recommended not to take clopidogrel while you are 
pregnant. 
You should not breast-feed while taking this medicine. 
If you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed, talk to your doctor before taking this medicine. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or to use machines. 
Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains hydrogenated castor oil 
This may cause stomach upset or diarrhoea. 
3. 
How to take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose, including for patients with a condition called ‘atrial fibrillation’ (an irregular 
heartbeat), is one 75 mg tablet of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma per day to be taken orally with or without 
food, and at the same time each day. 
If you have experienced severe chest pain (unstable angina or heart attack), your doctor may give you 
300 mg or 600 mg of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma (4 or 8 tablets of 75 mg) once at the start of treatment. 
Then, the recommended dose is one 75 mg tablet of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma per day as described 
above. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have experienced symptoms of a stroke which go away within a short period of time (also 
known as transient ischaemic attack) or an ischaemic stroke mild in severity, your doctor may give 
you 300 mg of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma (4 tablets of 75 mg) once at the start of treatment. Then, the 
recommended dose is one 75 mg tablet of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma per day as described above with 
acetylsalicylic acid for 3 weeks. Then the physician would prescribe either Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 
alone or acetylsalicylic acid alone. 
You should take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma for as long as your doctor continues to prescribe it. 
If you take more Clopidogrel Taw Pharma than you should 
Contact your doctor or the nearest hospital emergency department because of the increased risk of 
bleeding. 
If you forget to take Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
If you forget to take a dose of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma, but remember within 12 hours of your usual 
time, take your tablet straightaway and then take your next tablet at the usual time. 
If you forget for more than 12 hours, simply take the next single dose at the usual time. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten tablet. 
For the 7, 14, 28, 56, 84 tablets (calendar blister) pack sizes, you can check the day on which you last 
took a tablet of Clopidogrel Taw Pharma by referring to the calendar printed on the blister 
If you stop taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma  
Do not stop the treatment unless your doctor tells you so. Contact your doctor or pharmacist before 
stopping. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Contact your doctor immediately if you experience: 
- 
fever, signs of infection or extreme tiredness. These may be due to rare decrease of some blood 
cells. 
signs of liver problems such as yellowing of the skin and/or the eyes (jaundice), whether or not 
associated with bleeding which appears under the skin as red pinpoint dots and/or confusion 
(see section 2 ‘Warnings and precautions’). 
swelling in the mouth or skin disorders such as rashes and itching, blisters of the skin. These 
may be the signs of an allergic reaction. 
- 
- 
The most common side effect reported with Clopidogrel Taw Pharma is bleeding. 
Bleeding may occur as bleeding in the stomach or bowels, bruising, haematoma (unusual bleeding or 
bruising under the skin), nose bleed, blood in the urine. In a small number of cases, bleeding in the 
eye, inside the head, the lung or the joints has also been reported. 
If you experience prolonged bleeding when taking Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 
If you cut or injure yourself, it may take longer than usual for bleeding to stop. This is linked to the 
way your medicine works as it prevents the ability of blood clots to form. For minor cuts and injuries 
e.g., cutting yourself, shaving, this is usually of no concern. However, if you are concerned by your 
bleeding, you should contact your doctor straightaway (see section 2 ‘Warnings and precautions’). 
Other side effects include: 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Diarrhoea, abdominal pain, indigestion or heartburn. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Headache, stomach ulcer, vomiting, nausea, constipation, excessive gas in stomach or intestines, 
rashes, itching, dizziness, sensation of tingling and numbness. 
Rare side effect (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people): 
Vertigo, enlarged breasts in males.  
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
Jaundice; severe abdominal pain with or without back pain; fever, breathing difficulties sometimes 
associated with cough; generalised allergic reactions (for example, overall sensation of heat with 
sudden general discomfort until fainting); swelling in the mouth; blisters of the skin; skin allergy; sore 
mouth (stomatitis); decrease in blood pressure; confusion; hallucinations; joint pain; muscular pain; 
changes in taste or loss of taste of food. 
Side effects with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
Hypersensitivity reactions with chest or abdominal pain, persistent low blood sugar symptoms. 
In addition, your doctor may identify changes in your blood or urine test results. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Clopidogrel Taw Pharma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture and light. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains 
The active substance is clopidogrel. Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of clopidogrel (as 
hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal anhydrous silica, crospovidone (type A), 
macrogol 6000, hydrogenated castor oil (see section 2 ‘Clopidogrel Taw Pharma contains 
hydrogenated castor oil’) 
Film-coating: polyvinyl alcohol, titanium dioxide (E171), red iron oxide (E172), yellow iron 
oxide (E172), talc and macrogol 3000. 
- 
What Clopidogrel Taw Pharma looks like and contents of the pack 
The film-coated tablets are pink, round and biconvex. 
Boxes of 7, 14, 28, 30, 50, 56, 84, 90 and 100 film-coated tablets in blisters are available. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Boxes of 7, 14, 28, 56, 84 film-coated tablets in calendar blisters are available. 
Boxes of 30x1 and 50x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters are available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Taw Pharma (Ireland) Limited 
104 Lower Baggot Street 
Dublin 2 
Ireland 
Manufacturers 
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia 
TAD Pharma GmbH, Heinz-Lohmann-Straße 5, 27472 Cuxhaven, Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Viatris 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00  
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Ceská republika 
Mylan Healthcare CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tlf: + 49 800 0700 800 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti 
filiaal  
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Ελλάδα 
Viatris Hellas Ltd 
Τηλ:  +30 210 0 100 002 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Viatris 
Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00  
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Viatris Healthcare Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd 
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan B.V 
Tel: + 31 (0)20 426 3300 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z.o.o 
Tel: +48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 72 56 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.   
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Tel:   +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf  
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Viatris Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd   
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700  
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
România 
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Mylan Healthcare d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris OY 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB  
Tel: + 46 (0)8 630 19 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY. 
Detailed information is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
