EMA/156994/2016 
EMEA/H/C/001144 
EPAR summary for the public 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva1  
clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva. It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing 
authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Zentiva. 
What is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva? 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva is a medicine that contains two active substances, clopidogrel 
and acetylsalicylic acid (also known as aspirin). It is available as tablets containing 75 mg clopidogrel, 
either with 75 mg or 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
What is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva used for? 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva is used to prevent problems caused by blood clots, such as a 
heart attack, in adults who are already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid as separate 
tablets. It can be used in the following groups of patients who have a condition known as ‘acute 
coronary syndrome’: 
• 
• 
patients who have unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) or who have had a heart attack 
with no ‘ST-segment elevation’ (an abnormal reading on the ECG or electrocardiogram), including 
those who are having a stent (a short tube) inserted into an artery to prevent it from closing up; 
patients being treated for heart attack with ST-segment elevation, when the doctor thinks that 
they would benefit from treatment to dissolve blood clots. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
1 Previously known as DuoCover. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
How is Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva used? 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva is taken as one tablet once a day in place of the clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid tablets that the patient has already been taking separately. 
How does Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva work? 
Both active substances in Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva, clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid, 
are antiplatelet medicines. This means that they help to prevent blood cells called platelets from 
sticking together and forming clots, thus helping to prevent another heart attack.  
Clopidogrel stops the platelets sticking together by blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a 
special receptor on their surface. This stops the platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood 
clot forming. Acetylsalicylic acid stops the platelets sticking together by blocking an enzyme called 
prostaglandin cyclo-oxygenase. This reduces the production of a substance called thromboxane, which 
normally helps clots to form by attaching platelets together. The combination of the two active 
substances has an additive effect, reducing the risk of blood clots forming more than either medicine 
alone. 
Both active substances have been available in the European Union (EU) for a number of years. 
Clopidogrel has been authorised since 1998 for reducing platelet aggregation, and is often used in 
combination with acetylsalicylic acid. Acetylsalicylic acid has been available for over 100 years. 
How has Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva been studied? 
Because the two active substances have been used together for a number of years, the company 
presented the results of studies showing that the active substances in Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid 
Zentiva are absorbed in the body in the same way when taken in a single tablet as when the two 
medicines are taken separately. It also presented the results of 3 previous studies involving over 
61,000 patients with unstable angina or who had had a heart attack. 
What benefit has Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva shown during the 
studies? 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva was shown to be comparable to clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic 
acid taken separately, and can therefore be used in place of the clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
tablets that the patients have already been taking. 
Results from the 3 studies in patients with unstable angina or who had had a heart attack showed that 
the combination of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid taken as separate tablets was more effective at 
preventing events such as heart attacks than acetylsalicylic acid alone. 
What is the risk associated with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva? 
The most common side effects with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva (seen in between 1 and 10 
patients in 100) are haematoma (a collection of blood under the skin), epistaxis (nosebleeds), 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage (bleeding in the stomach or gut), diarrhoea, abdominal pain (stomach 
ache), dyspepsia (heartburn), bruising, and bleeding where the skin is punctured. For the full list of all 
side effects reported with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva, see the package leaflet. 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to 
clopidogrel, non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (such as acetylsalicylic acid) or any of the other 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva0F  
EMA/156994/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
ingredients in Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva. It must not be used in patients who have a 
disease that is causing bleeding, such as stomach ulcer or bleeding in the brain, or in patients with 
mastocytosis (high blood levels of certain white blood cells called mast cells). It must not be used in 
patients who have severely reduced liver or kidney function, or who have a medical condition that 
includes a combination of asthma, rhinitis (stuffy and runny nose) and nasal polyps (growths in the 
lining of the nose). Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva must not be used during the last three 
months of pregnancy. 
Why has Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva been approved? 
The CHMP noted that Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva is comparable to clopidogrel and 
acetylsalicylic acid tablets taken separately, and concluded that combining both active substances in a 
single Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva tablet simplifies treatment for patients as they will need 
to take fewer tablets. The Committee therefore decided that Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for DuoCover on 
15 March 2010. The name of the medicine was changed to Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva on 
15 January 2016. 
The full EPAR for Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva, read the package 
leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2016. 
Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva0F  
EMA/156994/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
