EMA/357235/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002255 
EPAR summary for the public 
Clopidogrel HCS 
clopidogrel 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Clopidogrel HCS. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Clopidogrel HCS. 
What is Clopidogrel HCS? 
Clopidogrel HCS is a blood-thinning medicine that contains the active substance clopidogrel. It is 
available as tablets (75 mg). 
Clopidogrel HCS is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Clopidogrel HCS is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Plavix. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Clopidogrel HCS used for? 
Clopidogrel HCS is used in adults to prevent problems caused by blood clots. Clopidogrel HCS can be 
given to the following groups of patients: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients who have recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Clopidogrel HCS can be 
started between a few days and 35 days after the attack; 
patients who have had a recent ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by failure of the blood supply to 
part of the brain). Clopidogrel HCS can be started between seven days and six months after the 
stroke; 
patients with peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries); 
patients with acute coronary syndrome (a condition in which blood supply to the heart is reduced), 
when it should be given with aspirin (another medicine that prevents blood clots), including 
patients who have had a stent inserted (a short tube placed in an artery to prevent it closing up). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Clopidogrel HCS can be used in patients who are having a heart attack with ‘ST segment elevation’ 
(an abnormal reading on the ECG or electrocardiogram) when the doctor thinks that they would 
benefit from the treatment. It can also be used in patients who do not have this abnormal reading 
on the ECG, if they have unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) or have had a ‘non-Q-wave’ 
myocardial infarction. 
• 
patients with atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the upper chambers of the heart), 
when it should be given with aspirin. It is used in patients who have at least one risk factor for 
events such as a heart attack or stroke, cannot take vitamin-K antagonists (other medicines that 
prevent blood clots) and are at low risk of bleeding.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Clopidogrel HCS used? 
The standard dose of Clopidogrel HCS is one 75-mg tablet once a day. In acute coronary syndrome, 
treatment generally starts with a loading dose of four tablets. This is then followed by the standard 75-
mg dose once a day for at least four weeks (in ST segment elevation myocardial infarction) or for up to 
12 months (in unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction). In acute coronary syndrome and 
atrial fibrillation, Clopidogrel HCS is used together with aspirin, the dose of which should not be higher 
than 100 mg. 
How does Clopidogrel HCS work? 
The active substance in Clopidogrel HCS, clopidogrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This means 
that it helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special cells in 
the blood called platelets aggregating (sticking together). Clopidogrel stops the platelets aggregating 
by blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a special receptor on their surface. This stops the 
platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to prevent another 
heart attack or stroke. 
How has Clopidogrel HCS been studied? 
Because Clopidogrel HCS is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Plavix. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Clopidogrel HCS? 
Because Clopidogrel HCS is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Clopidogrel HCS been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Clopidogrel HCS has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Plavix. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Plavix, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Clopidogrel HCS be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Clopidogrel HCS  
EMA/357235/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Clopidogrel HCS 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Clopidogrel HCS on 28 October 2010.  
The full EPAR for Clopidogrel HCS can be found on the Agency’s website: EMA website/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Clopidogrel HCS, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Clopidogrel HCS  
EMA/357235/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
