EMA/551479/2018 
EMEA/H/C/003855 
Coagadex (human coagulation factor X) 
An overview of Coagadex and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Coagadex and what is it used for? 
Coagadex is a medicine used for the treatment and prevention of bleeding (including during and after 
an operation) in patients with hereditary factor X deficiency. Factor X deficiency is a bleeding disorder 
caused by lack of factor X, a protein needed for normal clotting of the blood.  
Factor X deficiency is rare and Coagadex was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 14 September 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation 
Coagadex contains the active substance human coagulation factor X. 
How is Coagadex used? 
Coagadex is given by injection into a vein. The dose and frequency of the injections depend on the 
severity of the patient’s factor X deficiency, the extent and location of the bleeding and the patient’s 
condition and bodyweight. 
Coagadex can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started under the 
supervision of a doctor experienced in the treatment of rare bleeding disorders. Patients may inject 
Coagadex themselves at home once they have been trained appropriately. For more information about 
using Coagadex, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Coagadex work? 
Patients with hereditary factor X deficiency lack factor X, a protein needed to form the blood clot that 
stops wounds from bleeding. In these patients, blood clots do not form properly, resulting in bleeding 
that does not stop easily and poor wound healing. The active substance in Coagadex is human factor X 
isolated from the plasma of blood donors. By replacing the missing factor X, Coagadex helps the blood 
to clot and gives temporary control of bleeding. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Coagadex have been shown in studies? 
Coagadex has been investigated in one main study involving 16 patients with hereditary factor X 
deficiency aged 12 to 58 years. Patients received Coagadex either to treat any spontaneous bleeding 
during the treatment period or to prevent bleeding during surgery. The main measure of effectiveness 
was based on the doctor’s and patient’s assessment of how well the treatment worked in preventing 
and treating bleeding episodes.  
For the treatment of bleeding, 187 bleeding episodes were recorded and assessed, and treatment with 
Coagadex was rated as ‘excellent’ or ‘good’ for 98.4% of bleeding episodes. For 3 minor surgeries 
during the study, Coagadex was rated as excellent in preventing bleeding episodes. 
In a study with 9 children aged less than 12 years (4 of whom were under4 years of age), a routine 
preventive treatment with Coagadex over 6 months was rated as excellent in reducing or preventing 
bleeding episodes. In total, 10 bleeds were reported in the study, of which 4 were treated with 
Coagadex. A single infusion of Coagadex was sufficient to control each treated bleeding event.  
What are the risks associated with Coagadex? 
The most common side effects with Coagadex (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are pain or 
redness at the injection site, fatigue (tiredness), and back pain.  
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions can occur rarely in patients treated for bleeding disorders (in up to 
1 patient in 1,000) and can be severe in some cases. These reactions have not been reported during 
clinical studies with Coagadex. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Coagadex, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Coagadex authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that the benefits of Coagadex are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency considered the lack of specific therapies for factor X 
deficiency, and concluded that Coagadex was effective at treating and preventing bleeding in patients 
with the condition. The side effects of Coagadex were considered manageable and of mild or moderate 
intensity. However, given the extreme rarity of the condition, the safety database is small and rare 
events are not expected to be captured during the clinical studies. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Coagadex? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Coagadex have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Coagadex are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Coagadex are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Coagadex 
Coagadex received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 March 2016. 
Further information on Coagadex can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
Coagadex (human coagulation factor X)  
EMA/551479/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Coagadex (human coagulation factor X)  
EMA/551479/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
