27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/377913/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report 
Invented name CoAprovel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000222/II/0155 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb 
SNC 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP 
with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers 
Squibb SNC submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 7 February 2013 an application for a 
variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
CoAprovel 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Implementation of change(s) requested following the 
assessment of an USR, class labelling, a PSUR, RMP, FUM/SO, data 
submitted under A 45/46, or amendments to reflect a Core SPC - 
Change(s) with new additional data submitted by the MAH 
Type 
II 
The MAH proposed an update of SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 to reflect that the concomitant use of 
Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers (ARBs) with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with renal 
impairment and in patients with diabetes mellitus. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to align the annexes with the latest QRD template, to make 
editorial changes in the annexes and to introduce the contact details of the local representative in 
Croatia in the Package Leaflet. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
7 February 2013 
24 February 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
27 March 2013 
circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
25 April 2013 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
5 June 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
14 June 2013 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s final assessment report on the MAH’s 
20 June 2013 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
27 June 2013 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155 
EMA/CHMP/377913/2013 
Page 2/9 
 
  
  
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Irbesartan is a non-peptide angiotensine II-receptor antagonist (angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB)) 
with high selectivity for the At1 subtype. Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) and Sanofi-Synthélabo Pharma 
have jointly developed this compound and the International Birth Date is 12 August 1997. Irbesartan is 
available as monotherapy or as a fixed dose combination with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a thiazide 
diuretic. 
The MAH has three different duplicate medicinal products containing irbesartan currently approved in 
the EU through the centralised procedure: Aprovel, Karvea and Irbesartan Zentiva. Irbesartan is 
indicated for the treatment of hypertension and for the treatment of renal disease in hypertensive type 
2 diabetic patients, being available in 75, 150 or 300 mg tablets for oral administration. 
In addition, the MAH has three different duplicate fixed combination medicinal products currently 
approved in the EU through the centralised procedure: CoAprovel, Karvezide and Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva.   The fixed dose combination is indicated for treatment of essential 
hypertension in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on irbesartan or HCTZ 
alone. 
On 19 December 2011, the MAH for aliskiren (Novartis), informed the EMA of its intention to terminate 
the ALTITUDE study in patients with type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular and renal events 
following a recommendation by the independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC). Aliskiren is a 
selective direct inhibitor of human renin that inhibits the renin-angiotensin system (RAAS) blocking the 
conversation of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I and decreasing levels of angiotensin I and angiotensin 
II. Aliskiren is approved for the treatment of hypertension, and is provided in medicinal products 
containing aliskiren only as well as in fixed-dose combination medicinal products (in combination with 
amlodipine, with hydrochlorothiazide, and with both amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide). 
The ALTITUDE study was designed to test the hypothesis that the addition of aliskiren to the treatment 
of type 2 diabetic patients with nephropathy would result in improved cardiovascular and renal 
outcomes. On 14 December 2011, the DMC recommended the study termination concluding that in the 
study arm of patients receiving aliskiren when added on to conventional treatments for hypertension 
(either angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) or ARB), patients were unlikely to benefit from 
treatment. In addition, an increased incidence of non-fatal stroke, renal complications, hyperkalaemia 
and hypotension was observed. Therefore, on 20 December 2011, the CHMP assessed all the available 
data and its impact on the benefit-risk balance for aliskiren- containing medicinal products as part of a 
referral procedure. The conclusion of the CHMP review of all interim data available from the ALTITUDE 
study and all data from other studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports suggested an increased 
risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes (hypotension, stroke, hyperkalaemia) and changes in renal 
function when aliskiren is combined with ARBs or ACEi, especially in diabetic patients and those with 
impaired renal function. The CHMP recommended the contraindication of the use of aliskiren containing 
medicines in combination with ARBs or ACEi in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 ml/min). In addition, the CHMP concluded for all other patient 
groups that the use of aliskiren in combination with ARBs or ACEi is not recommended for the overall 
patient population. 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 3/9 
  
  
 
 
In view of the CHMP recommendation for inclusion of a contraindication of the concomitant use of 
aliskiren-containing medicines with ACEi and ARBs, the MAH has now submitted a type II variation 
accordingly to reflect this change in the product information of their irbesartan- and irbesartan 
hydrochlorothiazide-containing medicinal products (see above). 
The amended sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) are 4.3 "Contraindications", 
4.4 "Special warnings and precautions for use" and 4.5 "Interaction with other medicinal products and 
other forms of interaction", as well as section 2 " What you need to know before you take "TRADENAME" 
of the Package Leaflet. In addition, the MAH took the opportunity of this Type II variation to align the 
product information with QRD template 8 version 2, to make editorial changes in the annexes and to 
introduce the contact details of the local representative in Croatia in the Package Leaflet. 
As part of the variation application, the MAH has provided a comprehensive medical safety assessment 
of the risk of the combination of irbesartan (or irbesartan + HCTZ) with aliskiren in patients with 
diabetes or with renal impairment, in support of the proposed changes to the product information. The 
events of particular interest in this assessment are: hyperkalaemia, hypotension, renal failure, and 
stroke. 
2.2.  Clinical Safety aspects 
2.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Estimated drug exposure 
An estimate of the number of treated patients is derived from sales figures received from IMS Health. 
Due to limitations with historical sales data, IMS was only able to retrieve sales data from 01 July 1997 
to 30 September 2012. No data is yet available for the fourth quarter of 2012. These figures, which 
represent the bulk of BMS worldwide sales, remain an approximation of the total quantity sold.  
Corporate safety database (CARES) search results 
A comprehensive, cumulative search of the CARES was performed using MedDRA v14.1 to identify all 
spontaneous, literature cases, and clinical trial cases in which irbesartan or irbesartan + HCTZ was 
taken in combination with aliskiren containing medicines. All reports were received by BMS during the 
post-marketing experience with irbesartan or irbesartan + HCTZ from the period covering 12 August 
1997 through 26 November 2012. 
Irbesartan and aliskiren 
During the reporting period, a total of 15 healthcare professional confirmed (HCP) initial adverse event 
cases were received that included irbesartan and aliskiren containing medicines as a suspect, 
concomitant, or interacting drug. Of the 15 HPC cases, 8 were spontaneously reported and 7 were 
received from Phase I-IV clinical trials. Of the 15 total cases, 9 were serious (2 spontaneous cases and 7 
clinical trial cases). There were 3 events with a fatal outcome (with 2 of the events involving the same 
patient) among the total 15 HCP cases; in the first case the patient died due to incidental aspiration and 
acute respiratory failure which were unrelated to irbesartan or aliskiren therapy, and in the second case 
the patient died due to cerebral hemorrhage that was assessed as not related to irbesartan therapy. 
Additionally, 6 spontaneous, non-HPC cases were received. No non-HPC fatal outcomes were reported. 
Among the 21 cases identified, there were 14 males and 7 females who ranged in age from 47 to 89 
years (Mean = 68.3 years). Overall, the causality assessment by reporter of the 11 reports included 5 
not related, 2 probably related, 1, possibly related, and 1 not likely related. In 12 reports causality was 
not provided. Of the 21 cases, 7 cases had a positive dechallenge, in 6 cases irbesartan therapy was 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 4/9 
  
  
ongoing, in 6 cases dechallenge/rechallenge was not provided, and 2 cases had a negative dechallenge. 
Furthermore, in one case the event reappeared when the patient was switched to valsartan therapy, in 
one case the event reappeared when the patient was switched to atenolol, and in another case the 
patient experienced an unexpected benefit of improved mood. Overall, 3 of the 21 cases included: 
hyperkalaemia (1), hypotension (1), renal failure (0), or stroke (1). 
Irbesartan +HCTZ and aliskiren 
During the reporting period, a total of 5 HCP initial adverse event cases were received. Of the 5 HPC 
cases, 3 were spontaneously reported from worldwide sources and 2 were received from Phase IV 
clinical trials. Of the 5 total cases, all 5 qualified for classification as serious: 3 spontaneous cases and 2 
Phase IV clinical trial cases. No fatal outcomes were reported. Additionally, 4 non-HPC cases were 
received: 3 spontaneous cases and 1 Phase IV clinical trial case. Of the 4 total cases, 1 qualified for 
classification as serious. No fatal outcomes were reported. Among the 9 cases identified, there were 4 
males and 5 females who ranged in age from 35 to 90 years (Mean = 63 years, N = 8). Overall, the 
causality assessment by reporter of the 9 reports included 1 certainly related, 1 probably related, and 1 
possibly related. In 6 reports a reporter causality assessment was not provided. Of the 9 cases, in 5 
cases irbesartan therapy was ongoing, 3 cases had a positive dechallenge, and in 1 case 
dechallenge/rechallenge information was not provided. Furthermore, in one case the patient 
experienced a positive dechallenge when aliskiren was stopped and irbesartan was continued. Overall, 4 
of the 9 cases included: hyperkalaemia (2), hypotension (1), renal failure (1), or stroke (1) (Note: 
Renal failure and Stroke occurred in the same patient.) 
Literature review 
Additionally, a search of the published scientific literature was performed to identify any articles related 
to the use of irbesartan or irbesartan + HCTZ in combination with aliskiren. For each set of references 
retrieved, titles were screened for possible relevance to the subject. The following databases were 
searched: MEDLINE, EMBASE Alert, EMBASE, Derwent Drug File, Biosis Previews, and Int. Pharm Abs. 
Following review of the relevant articles, the MAH concluded that the search did not reveal any 
additional information that was not already reported in the CHMP assessment report for the referral 
procedure.  
The articles summarized below met the search criteria for possible drug interactions involving irbesartan 
and aliskiren + HCTZ; irbesartan and aliskiren + valsartan; irbesartan and aliskiren 
fumarate/Tekturna/Rasilez; irbesartan + HCTZ and aliskiren + HCTZ; irbesartan and aliskiren + 
valsartan; or irbesartan and aliskiren fumarate/Tekturna/Rasilez. 
  Parving H, Brenner BM, McMurray JJ, et al. Cardiorenal end points in a trial of aliskiren for type 2 
diabetes. N Engl J Med, 2012;367:2204-13. This article refers to the results of the ALTITUDE study.  
  Parving H, Brenner BM, McMurray JJ, et al. Aliskiren trial in type 2 diabetes using cardiorenal 
endpoints (ALTITUDE): rationale and study design. Nephrol Dial Transplant 2009;24:1663-71.  
  Lillyblad MP, Knutson AR, Philbrick AM, et al. Aliskiren alone or in combination for the treatment of 
mild-to-moderate hypertension: current role and future perspectives. J Pharm Technol 2012;28:16-
25. 
  O'Brien E, Barton J, Nussberger J, et al. Aliskiren reduces blood pressure and suppresses plasma 
renin activity in combination with a thiazide diuretic, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, or 
an angiotensin receptor blocker. Hypertension 2007;49:276-84. 
  Vaidyanathan S, Jarugala V, Dieterich HA, et al. Clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of 
aliskiren. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2008;47(8):515-31. 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 5/9 
  
  
  Volpe M, Danser AJH, Menard J, et al. Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system: is 
there room for dual blockage in the cardiorenal continuum? J Hypertension 2012;30:647-54. 
MAH’s conclusions 
Overall, the results of the underlying medical safety assessment including the cumulative review of 
irbesartan global safety surveillance data and the comprehensive literature review were consistent with 
the information included in the CHMP assessment report for the aliskiren referral procedure. 
2.2.2.  Discussion 
In February 2012, the CHMP completed a review of aliskiren-containing medicines (primarily based on 
data from the ALTITUDE trial), recommending that these medicines should be contraindicated in 
patients with diabetes or moderate to severe renal impairment who take ACEis or ARBs. In addition, a 
warning was included to highlight that the combination of aliskiren with an ACEi or ARB is not 
recommended in all other patients (EMA/CHMP/112042/2012). 
Since the outcome of the referral procedure, a number of publications have been made publicly 
available concerning the efficacy and safety of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system (RAAS). Specifically, a recently published meta-analysis by Makani1 on the dual RAAS blockade 
with ARBs, ACEi or direct renin inhibitors (aliskiren) raised safety concerns for this therapeutic 
approach. Briefly, the authors of that meta-analysis showed that dual blockade of the RAAS (compared 
with monotherapy) was not associated with a clinical benefit in reducing all-cause mortality (relative risk 
[RR] = 0.97; 95%CI 0.89-1.06) and cardiovascular mortality (RR= 0.96; 0.88-1.05), but was 
associated with a reduction in admissions to hospital for heart failure (RR=0.82, 0.74-0.92). In addition, 
dual blockade was associated with an increased risk of hyperkalaemia (RR=1.55; 1.32-1.82), 
hypotension (RR=1.66; 1.38-1.98) and renal failure (RR=1.41; 1.09-1.84). According to the authors, 
efficacy and safety results were consistent in cohorts with and without heart failure when dual blockade 
was compared with monotherapy except for all-cause mortality, which was higher in the cohort without 
heart failure, and renal failure which was shown to be significantly higher in the cohort with heart 
failure.  
The CHMP is aware that additional relevant results (not included in the search provided by the MAH) 
have been published recently. A brief meta-analysis in the diabetic population2, with a high degree of 
overlap with the included trials by Makani et al., showed that diabetic patients receiving dual blockade 
tended to have a higher risk (vs. monotherapy) of hyperkalemia, hypotension and kidney damage, with 
no reduction in overall mortality. An alternative recent meta-analysis of trials in chronic kidney disease, 
showed that dual RAAS blockade was associated with an increased risk of hyperkalemia and 
hypotension, but there was no effect on doubling of the serum creatinine, hospitalization or mortality 
relative to monotherapy3. 
Along the same line, in a recent re-analysis of the “ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in combination with 
Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial ACE-inhibitors (ONTARGET)” trial4 in people with diabetes and renal 
disease, cardiovascular and kidney outcomes (dialysis or doubling of serum creatinin) did not differ 
between dual blockade with ARB/ACEi (telmisartan/ramipril) and monotherapy, but acute dialysis 
(HR=1.55; 0.84-2.85), hyperkalemia (HR=1.71; 1.44-2.02) and hypotension (HR=2.30; 1.74-3.04) 
tended to be more frequent with dual therapy. 
More recently, the U.S. Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study “Combination Angiotensin Receptor Blocker 
and Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitor for Treatment of Diabetic Nephropathy (VA NEPHRON-D)” 
was terminated early due to a greater number of observed acute kidney injury events and hyperkalemia 
in the dual blockade therapy group (ARB/ACEi: losartan/lisinopril) compared to patients receiving an 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 6/9 
  
  
ARB plus placebo5. The Center of Medications Safety has recommended that combination therapy with 
an ACEi and ARB should not be initiated in patients with diabetic nephropathy, diabetes and CKD; or 
non-diabetic kidney disease if being used for kidney outcomes. Similarly, an ACEi and an ARB should 
not be used concomitantly with aliskiren. 
In this type II variation, the MAH proposed to update the SmPC for irbesartan-containing products in 
order to reflect contraindications and warnings of ARB use in combination with aliskiren.  A brief 
bibliographic search including published results of the ALTITUDE trial (by Parving et al 2012; Parving et 
al 2009) and additional commentaries/reviews (Lillybland et al 2012; O’Brien et al 2007; Vaidyanathan 
S et al 2008; and Volpe et al 2012) has been provided, together with a company search of case report 
data of irbesartan/aliskiren. 
The CHMP agreed with the proposal of including contraindications/warnings of dual RAAS blockade with 
irbesartan and aliskiren.  
References: 
1. Makani H, Bangalore S, Desouza KA, Shah A, Messerli FH. Efficacy and safety of dual blockade of the 
renin-angiotensin system: meta-analysis of randomized trials. BMJ. 2013 Jan 28;346:f360. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.f360. 
2. Catalá-López F, Macías Saint-Gerons D. Diabetes Mellitus and Risks of Dual Blockade of the Renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone System. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2013 Feb 18. doi:pii: S0300-8932(13)00008-0. 
10.1016/j.recesp.2012.11.010. 
3. Susantitaphong P, Sewaralthahab K, Balk EM, Eiam-Ong S, Madias NE, Jaber BL. Efficacy and Safety 
of Combined vs. Single Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Blockade in Chronic Kidney Disease: A 
Meta-Analysis. Am J Hypertens. 2013 Mar;26(3):424-41. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hps038. 
4. Mann JF, Anderson C, Gao P, Gerstein HC, Boehm M, Rydén L, Sleight P, Teo KK, Yusuf S; ONTARGET 
investigators. Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system in high-risk diabetes and risk for stroke 
and other outcomes: results of the ONTARGET trial. J Hypertens. 2013 Feb;31(2):414-21. doi: 
10.1097/HJH.0b013e32835bf7b0. 
5. National PBM Bulletin, February 12 2013: Dual Renin-Angiotensin Adolsterone System Blockade in 
Diabetic Nephropathy and Increased Adverse Events. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Health 
Administration (VHA), Pharmacy Benefit Management Services (PBM), Medical Advisory Panel (MAP), 
and Center for Medication Safety (VA MEDSAFE). Available at: 
http://www.pbm.va.gov/vamedsafe/nationalpbmbulletin/DualRenin-
AngiotensinAldosteroneSystemBlockadeandImpairedRenalFu.pdf 
2.3.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (additions are underlined, and 
deletions are highlighted with strikethrough), to which the CHMP agreed:  
SmPC 
Section 4.3 Contraindications 
Co-administration of CoAprovel with aliskiren-containing medicines in patients with diabetes or with 
moderate to severe renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2). 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 7/9 
  
  
 
 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS):  
Dual blockade of the RAAS by combining CoAprovel with aliskiren is not recommended since there is an 
increased risk of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function. The use of CoAprovel in 
combination with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (GFR 
< 60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see section 4.5). 
……… 
General: in patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying 
renal disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors 
or angiotensin-II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute 
hypotension, azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any 
antihypertensive agent, excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischaemic cardiopathy or 
ischaemic cardiovascular disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. (…) 
Section 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Aliskiren-containing products: the combination of CoAprovel with aliskiren-containing medicinal products 
is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or moderate to severe renal impairment (GFR  <60 
ml/min/1.73 m²) and is not recommended in other patients. 
Package Leaflet, Annex II and labelling 
The Package Leaflet has been updated in accordance with the amendments to the SmPC. In addition, 
the MAH took the opportunity to align the annexes with the latest QRD template, to make editorial 
changes in the annexes and to introduce the contact details of the local representative in Croatia in the 
Package Leaflet. These changes are all acceptable. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
After the CHMP review (EMA/CHMP/112042/2012) of the early termination of the ALTITUDE study with 
aliskiren, and the recommendations for inclusion of a contraindication of the concomitant use of 
aliskiren-containing medicines with ACEi and ARBs, the MAH has now submitted a type II variation to 
reflect these changes in the product information of irbesartan- and irbesartan hydrochlorothiazide- 
containing medicinal products. The amended sections of the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SmPC) are 4.3 "Contraindications", 4.4 " Special warnings and precautions for use" and 4.5 
"Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction". 
These updates of the product information proposed by the MAH are in line with the changes to the 
aliskiren PI implemented as part of the recent referral procedure and were considered acceptable by the 
CHMP  
The Package Leaflet has been updated in accordance with the amendments to the SmPC. In addition, 
the MAH took the opportunity to align the annexes with the latest QRD template, to make editorial 
changes in the annexes and to introduce the contact details of the local representative in Croatia in the 
Package Leaflet. 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 8/9 
  
  
 
 
The CHMP considers that the variation application for the proposed changes to the SmPC, Annex II, 
labelling and Package Leaflet is approvable. The benefit-risk balance for the irbesartan-containing 
medicinal products remains positive. 
Furthermore, the CHMP considers that this variation implements changes to the decision granting the 
marketing authorisation due to a significant public health concern on the following grounds: 
This variation concerns a new contraindication related to concomitant use of angiotensin receptor 
antagonists - including irbesartan - with aliskiren in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment 
as discussed in section 2.3 above. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variations requested 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Implementation of change(s) requested following the 
assessment of an USR, class labelling, a PSUR, RMP, FUM/SO, data 
submitted under A 45/46, or amendments to reflect a Core SPC - 
Change(s) with new additional data submitted by the MAH 
Type 
II 
Update of SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 to reflect that the concomitant use of Angiotensin II 
Receptor Blockers (ARBs) with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with renal impairment and in 
patients with diabetes mellitus. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. In addition, the 
MAH took the opportunity to align the annexes with the latest QRD template, to make editorial changes 
in the annexes and to introduce the contact details of the local representative in Croatia in the Package 
Leaflet. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report CoAprovel II-155  
EMA/570907/2013 
Page 9/9 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
