10 October 2011 
EMA/913717/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Colobreathe 
colistimethate sodium (rinn) 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/001225 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1  Background information on the procedure ............................................. 6 
1.1  Submission of the dossier .................................................................................. 6 
1.2  Manufacturers .................................................................................................. 7 
1.3  Steps taken for the assessment of the product ...................................................... 8 
2  Scientific discussion ............................................................................... 9 
2.1 
Introduction ..................................................................................................... 9 
2.2  Quality aspects............................................................................................... 11 
2.2.1 
Introduction ................................................................................................ 11 
2.2.2  Active Substance ......................................................................................... 11 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product............................................................................. 12 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ........................... 14 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .................... 14 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects......................................................................................... 14 
Introduction ................................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1 
2.3.2  Pharmacology.............................................................................................. 14 
2.3.3  Pharmacokinetics ......................................................................................... 16 
2.3.4  Toxicology .................................................................................................. 18 
2.3.5  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ...................................................... 20 
2.3.6  Discussion on non-clinical aspects .................................................................. 20 
2.3.7  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects............................................................. 21 
2.4  Clinical aspects............................................................................................... 21 
2.4.1 
Introduction ................................................................................................ 21 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics ......................................................................................... 23 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics ...................................................................................... 26 
2.4.4  Discussion on clinical pharmacology................................................................ 29 
2.4.5  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology .............................................................. 29 
2.5  Clinical efficacy............................................................................................... 29 
2.5.1  Dose response studies .................................................................................. 29 
2.5.2  Main study .................................................................................................. 30 
2.5.3  Discussion on clinical efficacy......................................................................... 50 
2.5.4  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy.................................................................. 51 
2.6  Clinical safety................................................................................................. 51 
2.6.1  Discussion on clinical safety........................................................................... 57 
2.6.2  Conclusions on the clinical safety.................................................................... 57 
2.7  Pharmacovigilance .......................................................................................... 57 
2.8  User consultation ............................................................................................ 63 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................ 63 
4  Recommendations ................................................................................ 64 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 2/66
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ACI 
ADME 
ADR 
AE 
ALT 
Andersen cascade impactor 
Absorption, distribution, metabolism, elimination 
Adverse drug reaction 
Adverse event 
Alanine aminotransferase 
ANCOVA 
Analysis of Covariance 
API 
AR 
AST 
AUC 
BMI 
BSAC 
BUN 
C 
cAMP 
CEP 
CF 
CFTR 
CFQ 
CFQ-R   
CFTR 
CI 
CM 
CMIP 
CNS 
CRF 
CS 
CVMP 
DD 
DDU 
DPI 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment report 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Area under the concentration-time curve 
Body mass index 
British Society for Antimicrobial Therapy 
Blood urea nitrogen 
Colistin 
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
Certificate of Suitability 
Cystic fibrosis 
Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator 
CFQ  –  Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire 
Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised 
Cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator protein 
Confidence interval 
Colistimethate sodium 
Colistimethate sodium inhalation powder 
Central nervous system 
Case Report Form 
Colistin sulphate 
Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products 
Delivered Dose 
Delivered Dose Uniformity 
Dry powder inhaler 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 3/66
 
 
 
EMA 
EU 
F 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
female 
FEF25-75 
Forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of the FVC 
FEV1 
FVC 
FPD 
FPM 
GC 
GCP 
GI 
HPLC 
IgG 
IL 
ITT 
IU 
IR 
i.v. 
JECFA 
LOD 
LOQ 
LOCF 
LPS 
LPM 
M 
MAA 
MIC 
MIC50 
MIC90 
MDI 
MMAD 
MSLI 
NE 
Forced expiratory volume in one second 
Forced vital capacity 
Fine Particle Dose 
Fine Particle Mass 
Gas Chromatography 
Good Clinical Practice 
Gastrointestinal 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Immunoglobulin G 
Interleukin 
Intention to treat 
International Units 
Infrared Spectroscopy 
Intravenous 
Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives 
Limit of Detection 
Limit of Quantitation 
Last observation carried forward 
Lipopolysaccharide 
Litres per minute 
Male 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
Minimum inhibitory concentration 
Minimum inhibitory concentration which inhibits 50% of isolates 
Minimum inhibitory concentration which inhibits 90% of isolates 
Metered dose inhaler 
Mass median aerodynamic diameter 
Multi stage liquid impinger 
Neutrophil elastase 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 4/66
 
 
 
NOAEL 
PA 
PDCO 
PEFR 
PP 
QoL 
QOS 
QP 
No  observable adverse effect level 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
Paediatric Committee 
Peak expiratory flow rate 
Per protocol 
Quality of Life 
Quality Overall Summary 
Qualified Person 
Ph.Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
PSD 
RH 
RMS 
SAE 
sGaw 
SmPC 
TEAE 
TNSFI 
TOBI 
UK 
Particle Size Distribution 
Relative humidity 
Reference Member State 
Serious adverse event 
Specific airways conductance measurements 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Treatment emergent adverse event 
Tobramycin nebuliser solution for inhalation 
Trade name for tobramycin nebuliser solution for inhalation 
United Kingdom 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 5/66
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Forest Laboratories UK Ltd. submitted on 4 September 2009 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Colobreathe, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 October 2007.  
Colobreathe was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/02/088 on 19 February 2002 in the 
following indication: 
Treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection (including colonisation) in cystic fibrosis 
The calculated prevalence of this condition at time of designation was 1.26 per 10,000 EU population. 
A revised estimate of prevalence of CF with associated P. aeruginosa lung infection was stated to be 
0.45 per 10,000 persons, supported by more recent literature. 
Following the CHMP positive opinion and at the time of the review of the orphan designation by the 
Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP), this product was withdrawn from the Community 
Register of designated orphan medicinal products on 12 October 2011 on request of the sponsor.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
The treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infection in patients aged 6 years and 
over with cystic fibrosis. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3)  
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
(P/32/2010) on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) and the granting of a product-
specific waiver.  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP was not yet completed as some measures were 
deferred. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the application contained a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 6/66
 
 
 
 
Derogation from Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 30 April 2002, 23 June 2003 and 15 
March 2005. The Protocol Assistance pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Penn Pharmaceutical Services Ltd. 
23-24 Tafarnaubach Industrial Estate 
Tredegar, Gwent NP2 3AA 
United Kingdom 
The inspection of the above manufacturing site was carried out by the relevant Competent Authority. 
The findings of the inspection are in compliance with the EU Good Manufacturing Practice 
requirements. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 7/66
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur  Piotr Fiedor 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 September 2009. 
The procedure started on 26 May 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 August 2010. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 23 August 
2010. 
  During the meeting on 20-23 September 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 September 2010. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions  
on 17 March 2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 27 April 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 May 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. The final List of Outstanding Issues was sent to the 
applicant on 1 June 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 19 August 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 5 September 2011. 
  During the meeting on 19-22 September 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Colobreathe on 22 September 2011. 
 
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Colobreathe with Cayston and TOBI Podhaler on 5 
October 2011. 
 
The CHMP issued a revised positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation to Colobreathe 
on 10 October 2011. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 8/66
 
 
 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) have viscous mucus in the lungs that, in time, becomes colonised 
with various bacteria and eventually with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This leads to further lung damage 
and ultimately contributes to premature death, often in association with other organ damage due to 
the systemic nature of the disease. 
The very first acquisition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa occurs during infancy and early childhood but 
this is usually intermittent and sequential cultures can be negative for variable periods of time. As age 
increases cultures commonly become persistently positive for this pathogen and chronic infection is 
established, accompanied by a transition from non-mucoid to mucoid P. aeruginosa. In the first 
instance Pseudomonas aeruginosa attaches within the respiratory tract using pili and other adhesins to 
form microcolonies. Over time there is formation of mature biofilms consisting of a community of 
bacteria embedded within an extracellular matrix. In these biofilm environments the bacteria 
communicate with each other by quorum sensing and are physiologically resistant to conventional 
antibacterial agents.  
Antibacterial agents can be used during early infection in efforts to temporarily eradicate pathogens. 
They are also used to treat pulmonary exacerbations and for chronic suppression of bacterial numbers 
with the aim of improving lung function in the short term and slowing the decline in lung function in 
the longer term. In 1981 Hodson et al. showed that a combination of inhaled carbenicillin and 
gentamicin in selected patients with CF led to improvement in lung function and to a reduction in 
hospital admissions for intravenous treatment. Similar results were obtained from other studies (e.g. 
Wall et al., 1983; Mukhopadhyay et al., 1996; Littlewood et al., 1985).    
Antibacterial agents that are active in vitro against Pseudomonas aeruginosa (including anti-
pseudomonal beta-lactam agents, aminoglycosides and colistimethate sodium) are administered to CF 
patients via the parenteral route or by inhalation. Intravenous preparations (i.e. powders made up into 
small volume solutions and delivered by nebulisation) are often used to provide inhaled antibacterial 
therapy. For example, Colomycin powder for solution for injection or inhalation is made up in 2-4 mL 
solution (depending on the dose) to deliver colistimethate sodium by nebulisation. A concentrated 
solution of tobramycin (300 mg in 5 mL) formulated specifically for use in nebulisers (TOBI) is also 
available. 
The administration of inhaled antibacterial agents by nebuliser may take more than 15-20 minutes 
depending on the minimum volume of solution that is possible, the viscosity of the preparation and the 
model of nebuliser and compressor used. In addition, nebuliser systems generally deliver no more than 
about 10% of the dose to the lungs. CF patients may need to take inhaled antibacterial therapy at 
least twice daily together with a range of other inhaled therapies such as bronchodilators and DNAse. 
The periods of time spent taking nebulised medications each day and the lack of portability of nebuliser 
systems (i.e. including a compressor) may have an adverse impact on quality of life.  
In 1990, Goldman et al. showed that it is possible to deliver antibacterial agents by dry powder inhaler 
(DPI). The authors compared delivery of 160 mg gentamicin solution by nebuliser with 180 mg 
micronised gentamicin powder (30 mg per gelatine capsule) by Rotahaler DPI. Similar concentrations 
of gentamicin were found in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid with the different delivery systems. Many dry 
powder inhalers are of a multi-dose design intended for asthma therapy and are incapable of delivering 
high powder doses conveniently. Crowther Labiris et al. (1999) showed that effective quantities of 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 9/66
 
 
 
 
gentamicin could be delivered by a multi-dose DPI (Clickhaler, Innovata biomed) but this required 
administration of 32 doses (each dose 5 mg gentamicin) over 30 minutes. In the current application a 
novel unit-dose DPI - Turbospin DPI – has been used to deliver 125 mg (equivalent to 1,662,500 IU) 
colistimethate sodium per dose from gelatine capsules. 
About the product 
Polymyxins are a group of lipopeptide antibiotics isolated from the spore-forming soil bacterium 
Bacillus polymyxa. Five major, chemically distinct members of the group have been recognised and 
designated as polymyxin A, B, C, D and E. Polymyxin B and E have been in clinical use for more than 
40-50 years. 
Colistin is a naturally occurring multi-component polymyxin antibacterial agent produced by a selected 
strain of Bacillus polymyxa var colistinus. Composed mainly of polymyxin A (E1) and B (E2) it is often 
denoted simply as polymyxin E. It has the characteristic polymyxin structure that includes a cyclic 
heptapeptide joined to a tripeptide chain with a single fatty acid substituent. All the amino groups are 
subject to derivation. All groups are initially sulphomethylated but approximately two are hydrolysed to 
amino-methylol groups in aqueous solutions. 
For parenteral and aerosol therapy colistin is used in the form of the sodium salt of the negatively-
charged methane sulphonate derivative known as colistimethate sodium (also called colistin 
sulphomethate, colistin methanesulphonate or sulphopolymyxin E sulphomethate and abbreviated to 
CMS). Colistimethate sodium is not microbiologically active. It is hydrolysed to the active, positively 
charged colistin in solution and also after administration along with a complex mixture of partially 
sulphonated derivatives that also seem to possess variable antibacterial activity. 
Colistimethate sodium is manufactured from colistin base by the action of formaldehyde and sodium 
bisulphite and has an approximate molecular weight of 1750.  
It is very important to note that while colistimethate sodium is used for administration (including in 
Colobreathe, which includes the mass of 125 mg of active substance per dose) the definition of an 
international unit is biological and 1 IU of colistin is defined as the amount of colistin that inhibits the 
growth of Escherichia coli 95 I.S.M. in 1 ml broth at pH 7.2. Pure colistin base has been assigned a 
potency of 30,000 IU per mg, while colistimethate sodium has a potency of 12,500 IU per mg. 
Polymyxins are cationic agents that are able to disrupt the hydrophobic outer membrane of susceptible 
aerobic Gram-negative bacteria. Colistin binds to the lipid A (endotoxin) moiety of lipopolysaccharides 
and to phospholipids in the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria. It inserts between adjacent 
molecules of lipopolysaccharide and displaces membrane stabilising magnesium ions. This causes the 
outer membrane to expand and distort so that the bacterium loses control over the influx and efflux of 
cations (e.g. potassium and sodium).   
Disruption of the outer membrane also allows colistin molecules to penetrate through to and 
incorporate within the inner cytoplasmic membrane to result in increased permeability to small 
molecules. This increased permeability allows vital cellular constituents such as nucleic acids and 
proteins to leak out.  
Due to its limited spectrum of activity, limited distribution in body compartments and adverse event 
profile colistin has never been widely used for parenteral therapy of bacterial infections. Parenteral 
administration is usually reserved for patients who cannot receive other antibacterial agents that might 
be suitable for the infection to be treated. For example, patients hypersensitive to numerous other 
agents and those infected with organisms that are resistant to all the preferred alternatives. The use of 
intravenous colistin has become relatively common in some EU hospitals due to the increasing number 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 10/66
 
 
 
of nosocomial infections caused by organisms that are resistant to all beta-lactam agents (including 
carbapenems), to aminoglycosides and to fluoroquinolones. 
Nebulised colistin has become established since the 1980s as a treatment for patients with CF who are 
colonised with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In this mode of use systemic absorption is said to be limited 
and few adverse events are reported other than airways irritation and hypersensitivity. However, the 
clinical data that support the safety and efficacy of the doses currently recommended were not 
collected systematically and clinical use has evolved over many years. The published studies were 
generally uncontrolled, were performed by a wide variety of investigators and have been reported to a 
variable standard of detail. 
Colobreathe has been developed as a quicker, more convenient alternative to nebulised delivery of 
colistin. The aim was to increase the acceptability of dosing regimens and hence increase the 
adherence to therapy by patients. Colobreathe is presented as a hard gelatin capsule containing 
125mg of colistimethate sodium for inhalation using the Turbospin device. There are no excipients.   
The pharmacy and chemistry information relating to the drug substance has undergone a full 
assessment by the EDQM and the Certificate of Suitability demonstrates the compliance of 
colistimethate sodium used in this product with the monograph of the Ph. Eur. and Directive 
2001/83/EC. The Turbospin device already carries a CE mark. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
Colobreathe contains 1,662,500 IU colistimethate sodium as the active substance and is presented as 
an encapsulated powder for inhalation in gelatin hard transparent capsules. The capsules are packed in 
aluminium/aluminium blisters and supplied with a breath-actuated Turbospin® powder inhaler.  The 
Turbospin® powder inhaler is an inspiratory flow driven dry powder inhaler made of medical grade 
polypropylene and is CE marked. 
Colistin is a naturally occurring multi-component polymyxin antibacterial agent produced by a selected 
strain of Bacillus polymyxa var colistinus. Composed mainly of polymyxin A (E1) and B (E2) it is often 
denoted simply as polymyxin E. It has the characteristic polymyxin structure that includes a cyclic 
heptapeptide joined to a tripeptide chain with a single fatty acid substituent. All the amino groups are 
subject to derivation. All groups are initially sulphomethylated but approximately two are hydrolysed to 
amino-methylol groups in aqueous solutions. 
For parenteral and aerosol therapy colistin is used in the form of the sodium salt of the negatively-
charged methane sulphonate derivative known as colistimethate sodium (also called colistin 
sulphomethate, colistin methanesulphonate or sulphopolymyxin E sulphomethate and abbreviated to 
CMS). Colistimethate sodium is not microbiologically active. It is hydrolysed to the active, positively 
charged colistin in solution and also after administration along with a complex mixture of partially 
sulphonated derivatives. 
The full list of ingredients is defined in section 6.1 of the SPC. 
2.2.2  Active Substance 
Colistimethate sodium (INN) is a well known drug substance for which a Ph. Eur. Monograph exists.  It 
is a white or almost white, odorless, hygroscopic powder, very soluble in water, slightly soluble in 
alcohol and practically insoluble in acetone and ether.  The specific optical rotation of a 5% aqueous 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 11/66
 
 
 
 
solution of colistimethate sodium is -46° to -51° (Ph Eur).  Colistimethate sodium is hygroscopic.  The 
active substance exists as an amorphous form and there are no other polymorphic forms. The 
empirical formula is C58H105N16Na5O28S 5 and the structural formula is represented below. 
Figure 1: 
Manufacture 
Colistimethate sodium is manufactured from colistin base by the action of formaldehyde and sodium 
bisulphite and has an approximate molecular weight of 1750.  
The manufacture of the active substance is covered by a Certificate of Suitability.  
The particle size distribution is a physicochemical characteristic of relevance to the applied drug 
product. Full details of the micronisation process were provided. Micronisation is considered to be part-
process manufacture and the GMP compliance of the manufacturer was confirmed.  
Specification 
The drug substance complies with the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia monograph 0319 
for colistimethate sodium and with the additional specification for particle size distribution. An 
additional test for heavy metals is added to the European Certificate of Suitability. The specification 
applied by the active substance manufacturer and the Applicant are satisfactory. Ph.Eur. methods are 
used, except the additional in-house analytical procedures for moisture content and particle size 
distribution. Validation data of the in-house test procedures have been provided. 
Batch data of five batches were provided confirming the compliance with the specification and 
consistency of the manufacturing process. 
Stability 
The retest period of five years is stated on the Certificate of Suitability if the drug substance is stored 
in a container consisting of aluminium bottle with PE insert and PP or PE lid. 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The product has been developed in accordance with the requirements of the relevant guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/QWP/49313/2005 Corr. Guideline on the pharmaceutical quality of inhalation and nasal 
products. Formulation development of this dry powder delivery system was conducted to produce a 
more convenient and effective alternative method of respiratory delivery of colistimethate sodium with 
the aim of delivering the equivalent respirable mass of antibiotic when compared to that delivered by 
the nebulised product. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 12/66
 
 
 
 
In vitro formulation studies were carried out to determine the respirable mass of colistimethate sodium 
from a nebuliser. The capsule fill weight was therefore chosen in order to achieve a similar respirable 
mass based on the particulate size profile of the micronised powder. In vivo deposition study was then 
carried out. Data from an in vivo deposition study assessing total and regional deposition of 
colistimethate sodium delivered using Turbospin® powder inhaler and a nebuliser device in subjects 
with cystic fibrosis showed that lung deposition of colistimethate sodium was proportionately 
significantly higher when delivered with the Turbospin® powder inhaler than by a nebuliser. The 
1,662,500 IU (125 mg) of colistimethate sodium given as a dry powder is therefore intended to deliver 
a dose to the lung at least equivalent to 2 million IU nebulised. 
Adventitious agents 
The gelatin used in the manufacture of the capsule is the subject of European Certificates of Suitability 
for TSE. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a simple process which involves the filling of the hygroscopic micronized 
drug substance into hard gelatin capsules under controlled manufacturing conditions. The amount of 
colistimethate sodium used is calculated based on potency and moisture content. The in-process 
controls are considered to be appropriate and ensure compliance with the finish product specification.   
The validation of the manufacturing process has been performed on commercial scale batches of 
Colobreathe 1,662,500 IU, inhalation powder, hard capsule. The results demonstrate that the 
manufacturing process is capable of consistently producing product that meets the finished 
specification. 
Product specification 
The specification complies with the Ph.Eur. requirements and ICH guidelines. The control of the product 
includes: identification, appearance of powder, appearance of capsule, moisture content of powder, 
potency, particle size distribution, fine particle mass, uniformity of delivered dose and microbiological 
purity. All test methods are satisfactorily described and validated. 
Data from five batches show that the batches were consistently manufactured and comply with the 
proposed specification. 
Stability of the product 
Satisfactory stability data under ICH conditions have been provided to support the shelf life and 
storage conditions as defined in the SmPC, There were no changes in uniformity of delivered dose, fine 
particle mass and uniformity of mass. All samples complied with the stability specification for average 
content of colistimethate sodium and microbial testing. 
Comparability Exercise for Finished Medicinal Drug Product  
Not applicable 
GMO 
Not applicable 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 13/66
 
 
 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product are 
acceptable.  
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1  Introduction 
The non-clinical dossier comprises published literature, much of which predates the establishment of 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). Therefore most of the studies will not be compliant with the principles 
of GLP, with the exception of some of the more recent genotoxicity studies that were reportedly GLP-
compliant. 
2.3.2  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Polymyxins are a group of lipopeptide antibiotics isolated from Bacillus polymyxa. They are selective 
cationic agents acting on Gram-negative bacteria by targeting the phospholipids in the bacterial cell 
membrane. Colistin, which is isolated from B polymyxa var. colistinus, consists of a mixture of several 
closely related decapeptides (polymyxin E) and has the characteristic polymyxin structure of a cyclic 
heptapeptide joined to a tripeptide chain with a single fatty acid substituent.  The two main 
components are colistin A (polymyxin E1) and colistin B (polymyxin E2), which differ only in their fatty 
acid side chain.   
Colistimethate sodium is hydrolysed to colistin, the positively charged active moiety, which has a two-
step mode of action against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the bacterium targeted in the produced 
indication.  In the first step, colistin binds to the lipopolysaccharide component of the outer membrane 
of sensitive Gram-negative bacteria by interaction between the peptide ring of colistin and phosphate 
groups present on the lipid A and core region of lipopolysaccharide.  This displaces magnesium ions 
from phosphate groups and results in distortion of the outer membrane structure and loss of the 
permeability barrier. Once the permeability barrier is lost, colistin penetrates the cell wall to the 
underlying cytoplasmic membrane target. The disorganisation of the outer membrane also alters the 
cell’s permeability to various hydrophobic substances including antibiotics.  Insertion of colistin 
molecules between the phospholipid and protein components of cell membranes results in loss of 
membrane integrity, leakage of cytoplasmic constituents and cell death. 
The susceptibility of clinical isolates of Gram-negative bacteria to colistimethate sodium, colistin 
sulphate, colistin and other polymyxins has been reported in the literature. The Minimum Inhibitory 
Concentrations (MIC) are dependent upon what compound is tested and this is not always clear in the 
literature. Additional confusion arises from differences in expression of potency in IU. Some clinical 
isolates of P. aeruginosa have shown resistance to colistin.  These issues are discussed further in the 
part dealing with “Clinical aspects”. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 14/66
 
 
 
Comparison of different forms of colistin in mice in vivo indicated that subcutaneous administration of 
colistimethate sodium is more effective than colistin sulphate or polymyxin B sulphate against 
infections with K. pneumoniae.   
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Receptor screening studies have not been reported in the literature. However colistin is known to have 
an effect on nerve conduction and can cause bronchoconstriction when nebulised. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Conventional safety pharmacology studies have not been conducted but relevant endpoints have been 
reported, and a general pharmacology screen was conducted by Japanese workers in the early 1970s. 
In an early series of general pharmacology studies with colistimethate sodium, a neuromuscular 
blocking effect was seen at lethal doses in mice. Similar effects have been reported in other species. 
The neuromuscular blocking effect appears to result from inhibition of acetylcholine release from 
somatic nerve endings in skeletal muscle. Mutual potentiation of the muscular blocking effect between 
colistin and the muscle relaxant succinylcholine has been reported. The doses of colistimethate sodium 
causing paralysis of the respiratory muscles and death are much higher than those used clinically. 
Colistimethate sodium did not have a local anaesthetic effect or mucous stimulating effect. There was 
no effect on intestine or uterus. 
At high concentrations, solutions of colistimethate sodium depressed cardiac function measured in 
isolated rat atrial preparations, and induced vasodilatation in the blood vessels of isolated rabbit ear 
preparations. In vivo, there was no predictable effect on blood pressure or respiration in rabbits; 
variable changes in blood pressure were attributed to a potential histamine liberating effect.   
Intravenous colistimethate sodium (up to 6.5mg/kg) had no effect on blood pressure in dogs, but 
colistin sulphate at 10-fold lower doses caused a drop in blood pressure.  Clinically, effects on the 
cardiovascular system are not common. 
Colistin is mainly excreted in the urine when given parenterally. Nephrotoxicity is a potential toxic 
effect of colistimethate sodium in humans and is generally associated with the use of higher than 
recommended doses in patients with normal renal function, failure to reduce dosage in patients with 
renal impairment, or concomitant use with other nephrotoxic medications. There was no effect on 
urinary output in rabbits nor on renal function in dogs treated intravenously with colistimethate sodium 
at doses up to 10 mg/kg or 40mg/kg, respectively. However in another study, renal function was 
depressed in one of two dogs given colistimethate sodium at 2.2mg base/kg/6h (8.8mg base/kg/day). 
There was also evidence of drug accumulation at this dosage. Lower doses had no effect. In other 
studies, repeated doses of polymyxins in rabbits and dogs showed no increase in proteinuria with 
polymyxin E, whereas other polymyxins produced various degrees of proteinuria in dogs.  
The effects on nervous and renal systems have been well documented over the years of clinical use of 
colistin. Exposures expected from inhalation of colistimethate sodium are likely to be much lower than 
those achieved in the animal studies and therefore the risk of these known effects is minimised.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The possible interactions resulting from co-administration of drugs acting on the nervous system or 
those with nephrotoxic effects are covered in the proposed SmPC. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 15/66
 
 
 
2.3.3  Pharmacokinetics 
No animal studies on the inhalation of colistimethate sodium have been identified in the literature. 
When colistimethate sodium is administered to humans using a dry powder inhaler, the potential 
systemic exposure is either by absorption directly into the pulmonary circulation or gastrointestinal 
absorption following ingestion of oropharyngeal deposition and drug particulates removed from the 
lung by its mucociliary transport system. Therefore pharmacokinetic investigations in laboratory 
animals following parenteral or oral administration provide data that are relevant to inhalation 
exposure.  
The early studies used bioassays to determine colistin levels in various matrices and were limited to 
measuring pharmacologically active forms of the compound. Subsequent studies have employed high-
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods that are more discriminatory. In many of the 
studies it is not clear what is being measured.   
Absorption 
Oral administration of colistimethate sodium or colistin sulphate to rats, rabbits, dogs, pigs and cows 
has resulted in little or no absorption into the systemic circulation.  However, appreciable absorption 
from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of colistimethate sodium may occur in humans with disturbed or 
damaged gut mucosa; limited absorption of colistin from the GI tract has been reported in newborn 
animals and in children less than six months of age, in which the gut is more permeable.  
Parenteral administration of colistin sulphate or colistimethate sodium to rats, rabbits and dogs has 
produced measurable levels of drug-related material in the plasma, although in the older studies it is 
not clear what is being measured and pharmacokinetic parameters have usually not been calculated.  
In more recent studies in which free colistin and colistimethate moieties could be distinguished using 
an HPLC method, the plasma half-life of colistin was significantly longer than that of colistimethate 
following IV administration of colistimethate sodium to rats (55.7 and 23.6 minutes, respectively) and 
to cystic fibrosis patients (251 minutes and 124 minutes, respectively). 
The longer plasma half-life of colistin compared with colistimethate sodium suggests that its disposition 
after colistimethate sodium administration is rate-limited by its elimination and not by its formation 
from the hydrolysis of colistimethate sodium. 
The plasma drug concentration in rabbits and dogs receiving a single IM dose of colistimethate sodium 
was higher and disappeared faster than the plasma drug concentration after a single IM dose of colistin 
sulphate. Higher plasma concentrations are also achieved in humans following IM administration of 
colistimethate compared with IM administration of colistin sulphate. 
Higher serum drug concentrations and faster elimination were noted in rats following an IV dose 
compared with an IM dose of colistimethate. Similar patterns have been reported for rabbits, dogs and 
humans. In infants aged 4 to 51 days, mean serum half-life after a single IM dose of colistin 
(unspecified salt) was about 2.5 hours, which was only slightly shorter than that reported for adults 
(3.0 hours). 
Distribution 
In vitro binding of colistimethate to dog plasma proteins was substantially less than that for colistin 
sulphate, with the latter showing concentration-dependence (decreased binding with increasing 
concentration). 
Tissue binding of colistimethate sodium following single intravenous doses of 10 or 30mg/kg to rats 
showed highest serum and tissue drug concentrations at 0.5 hours (the first sampling time), except for 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 16/66
 
 
 
the contents of the small intestine, which peaked at 1 hour post-dose.  No drug was evident in the 
brain at any time.  Tissue concentrations equal to, or above, serum levels were recorded for the 
kidney, small intestine and the small intestine contents, reflecting the presumed routes of elimination.   
Neither polymyxin B sulphate nor colistimethate sodium accumulated in the serum following daily IM 
administration (2.5mg/kg/day) of the compounds to rabbits for 7 days, but both free and bound 
polymyxin B persisted in liver, kidney, muscle and brain for 5 days following dosing. 
For colistimethate, bound drug concentrations increased in all tissues apart from serum with time, the 
highest concentrations being detected in the liver and muscle and the lowest concentration in the 
brain. Bound drug was lost most rapidly from the kidney over the 5-day period after the last dose, but 
tended to persist longer in the brain than other tissues. Free colistimethate was not found in the brain 
or lung 24 hours after each administration, but free colistimethate in kidney, liver and muscle declined 
slowly and was present (>5μg/g, stated to be therapeutic concentrations) for up to four days after the 
last dose. 
In rabbits, colistimethate appears to be incompletely converted to colistin in vivo. 
Bound colistimethate appeared to reach saturation in rabbit brain, muscle and heart following twice 
daily dosing of colistimethate sodium for 7 days, with less evidence of saturation in the kidney and 
lung. Free colistimethate was not detected in the brain or lung, and levels in the heart, kidney, muscle 
and liver were low.  
Tissue binding appears to be the main determinant of the distribution and persistence of colistimethate 
within the body. 
In humans, polymyxins have been reported to persist in the liver, kidney, brain, heart and muscle, 
with colistimethate binding to a greater extent than polymyxin B to the kidney, lung and liver. The 
pattern is reversed in the brain and penetration into the CSF in humans is reportedly unpredictable and 
usually negligible. 
No animal studies investigating placental transfer were located in the literature, but colistimethate 
sodium administered as a single intravenous dose to pregnant human volunteers in labour 
demonstrate that the drug crosses the placenta, with levels higher than those in maternal serum by 8 
hours post-dose. 
Intramuscular administration of colistin (unknown form) to cattle and sheep has demonstrated the 
presence of the drug in milk. Clinical studies have reportedly shown that colistin is secreted into human 
milk following administration of colistimethate sodium. 
Metabolism 
Colistimethate appears to undergo limited metabolism. It undergoes hydrolysis to colistin base in vitro 
and in vivo.  
In rabbits, colistin-N-glucuronide was detected following a single IV dose of colistimethate sodium, 
which accounted for 1.7 and 6.7% of the drug in the urine and bile, respectively, in the 24 hours after 
administration.   
Measurement of the D-leucine content of colistin in dog urine by gas chromatography following IM 
administration of colistin sulphate indicated that a significantly greater proportion of the dose was 
present in the urine than was detected by bioassay. This suggests the presence of an (unidentified) 
inactive metabolite or metabolites.  
Excretion 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 17/66
 
 
 
Following oral administration to laboratory animals and humans, colistimethate sodium was excreted in 
the faeces, mainly in a ‘bound’ form.  
The urine is the major route of excretion following parenteral administration of colistimethate sodium 
in rats, rabbits, dogs and humans.  
In rats, over 60% of an IV dose of colistimethate sodium was recovered in urine during the first 24 
hours, the majority of that occurring in the first 12 hours. In rabbits, 74% of a dose was recovered in 
the urine, with a small proportion (0.12%) recovered in the bile within 24 hours.  A similar pattern of 
urinary excretion was evident in humans (children and adults) but no biliary excretion has been 
reported in humans. 
Glomerular filtration appears to be the main elimination process in dogs and humans. The dosage may 
require adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies were identified in the literature. Given the limited protein 
binding and lack of metabolism of colistin, pharmacokinetic interactions resulting from displacement of 
drug from plasma proteins or inhibition of drug-metabolising enzymes is not considered likely.  
Clinical experience with colistimethate sodium and concomitant administration with other drugs 
commonly used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis has not provided evidence of pharmacokinetic 
interactions. 
Concomitant use of colistimethate with non-depolarising muscle relaxants and medications that are 
nephrotoxic or neurotoxic should be undertaken with care, as the effects may be potentiated. It is 
stated in the non-clinical summary that polymyxins may possibly reduce the contraceptive effect of 
oestrogen but that the risk is probably small.  The source of this information was unclear, and the 
published literature has been further discussed. Some antibiotics decrease the efficacy of oral 
contraceptives by induction of liver enzymes, whilst others do so by affecting gut bacteria. In general, 
the failure of oral contraception when taken concomitantly with most antibiotics occurs at a low rate 
and is similar to the rate of failure without concomitant antibiotics. There are no documented reports of 
interactions between polymyxins, colistin or colistimethate sodium and oral contraceptives, 
progesterone or oestrogen; therefore it is not necessary to include a warning in the SmPC.  
Nevertheless, the applicant has now conducted a study to verify whether or not colistimethate sodium 
has the potential to induce liver enzymes. The study showed that concentrations up to 3500 ng/mL of 
colistin or up to 10500 ng/mL of colistimethate sodium did not induce the activity of CYP enzymes 
(CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19 and 3A4/5) in cultured human hepatocytes.  Appropriate prototypical 
inducers were included as positive controls and ensured the validity of the study. Therefore this in vitro 
study confirmed that colistin and colistimethate sodium are not inducers of these CYP enzymes. 
Section 4.5 of the SmPC has been amended to include this information.  
2.3.4  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity studies were conducted over 35 years ago and were lethal dose tests. From the 
LD50 values reported in the literature, colistimethate sodium appears to be more acutely toxic to rats 
than to mice, but less acutely toxic in both species than colistin sulphate. However, colistimethate 
sodium shows a low order of acute toxicity, irrespective of the route of administration.  Inhalation 
studies have not been reported. Lethal doses of colistin compounds caused muscular incoordination, 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 18/66
 
 
 
respiratory distress and occasionally strychnine-like convulsions in mice. Paralysis of the respiratory 
muscles has been attributed to neuromuscular blockade.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
Inhalation toxicity studies have not been conducted with colistimethate sodium. Studies have been 
reported using oral and parenteral administration of colistimethate sodium, colistin sulphate and other 
polymyxins. As was seen in acute toxicity studies, colistin appears to be more toxic to rats than mice 
on repeated dosing, and colistimethate less toxic than colistin sulphate. In an early study, 
colistimethate sodium at 35.5mg/kg given twice daily (IM or IP) was lethal to rats. Findings included 
necrosis of the stomach mucosa and the proximal convoluted tubules in the kidneys. 
In more recent studies in rats and mice following repeated IP dosing for at least 30 days, toxic effects 
included deaths, decreases in spontaneous activity, convulsions and alterations in haematological 
(haemoglobin, haematocrit, red blood cell count) and clinical chemistry (alanine aminotransferase, 
aspartate aminotransferase, blood urea nitrogen, albumin to globulin ratio) parameters.  
One reference noted “reactive symptoms” in liver, spleen and kidney in mice and in liver of rats, with 
hyperaemia noted in rat spleen. Unspecified histopathological changes in the kidney, liver and spleen 
were also reported following IP administration of colistimethate sodium to rats for 6 months.  
An early subcutaneous dog study in which colistin sulphate was administered at 10000 or 20000U/kg 
three times daily for 21 days identified renal changes that were considered to be reversible. 
The findings confirm those reported in the safety pharmacology section. 
Genotoxicity 
In vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies have been reported in the literature, most of which were 
conducted prior to the introduction of GLP standards.  According to a report by the Joint FAO/WHO 
Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) in 2006, there were three studies (reverse mutation in S 
typhimurium strains, forward mutation in V79 Chinese hamster cells and an in vivo mouse 
micronucleus test) that were reported in 1992 and stated to be GLP-compliant. These GLP-compliant 
studies were negative, as were the majority of the other published studies. One study was equivocal 
and another, an investigation of chromosome damage in human lymphocytes, was positive, although 
the methodology used in the latter study was questioned. On balance, the published literature 
suggests that ‘colistin’ (colistin sulphate or other unspecified salt) is not genotoxic.  
Carcinogenicity 
Colistin sulphate and colistimethate sodium have been in use for decades in both human and 
veterinary medicine, without any reports of potential carcinogenic effects being published. Although no 
formal carcinogenicity studies have been conducted, colistimethate sodium does not appear to have 
any structural alerts, and the largely negative genotoxicity studies support the conclusion that the 
compound is unlikely to have carcinogenic potential. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
A full range of reproductive toxicology studies has been reported in the literature. The studies were 
published in 1981 in Japanese, with English tables and translation of the abstracts and are stated to be 
conducted according to pre-ICH Japanese guidelines. The studies comprise male and female fertility in 
mice and rats; embryofetal development in mice, rats and rabbits, and peri- and postnatal 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 19/66
 
 
 
development in rats. Thus the range of studies conducted is appropriate.  However, toxicokinetic 
analyses were not carried out. 
There were no notable effects on fertility or general reproductive performance in rats or mice. In 
embryo-fetal development studies in mice, resorptions and reduced ossification were seen, and in rats, 
reduced fetal weights, reduced ossification and at the high dose of 10mg colistin base/day, reduced 
post natal survival. No effects were reported in rabbits at IV doses of 80mg/kg colistimethate sodium 
(32mg colistin base/kg). The US labelling mentions a single report of talipes varus in rabbits given 
intramuscular colistimethate sodium (4.15 or 9.3mg/kg), which was apparently not clearly dose-
related and was not seen in the Japanese study at higher doses.  
There were no effects on prenatal or postnatal development or on maternal function in rats. Colistin 
has been shown to pass into milk in cattle, sheep and humans. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Most of the studies reviewed were carried out in the period 1960-1984 and toxicokinetic analysis is not 
mentioned. These studies also predated the publication of a reliable HPLC method for the separate 
determination of colistimethate species and free colistin; previously, biological activity of colistin was 
assayed.  Consequently, comparative systemic exposure levels cannot be provided.  The applicant 
discussed the absence of toxicokinetic data in the context of quality and clinical objections raised on 
the assay, disposition in the lung and systemic exposure.  The applicant proposes to conduct a study in 
adults and children with cystic fibrosis to obtain PK data to establish the extent of any systemic 
exposure in the relevant patient population. A non-clinical study to investigate toxicokinetics and lung 
deposition following inhalation of colistimethate sodium is therefore not considered necessary. 
Other toxicity studies 
No other toxicity studies have been conducted or reported in the literature 
2.3.5  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An acceptable justification has been provided for the absence of an environmental risk assessment.  
Colobreathe is intended as an alternative to the current use of nebulised colistimethate.  The 
introduction of the product will therefore not increase the environmental exposure to colistimethate.  
2.3.6  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Polymyxins are a group of lipopeptide antibiotics isolated from Bacillus polymyxa. They are selective 
cationic agents acting on Gram-negative bacteria by targeting the phospholipids in the bacterial cell 
membrane. 
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of genotoxicity. 
Animal studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity or toxicity to reproduction, employing 
routes assuring systemic exposure, showed no particular hazard.  There were no notable effects on 
fertility or general reproductive performance in male or female rats or mice.  In embryo-fetal 
development studies in mice, resorptions and reduced ossification were seen, and in rats reduced fetal 
weights, reduced ossification and at the high dose of 10 mg colistin base per day, reduced post-natal 
survival.  An embryo-fetal study in rabbits reported no effects at intravenous doses up to 80 mg/kg 
colistimethate sodium (32 mg colistin base/kg).   
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 20/66
 
 
 
2.3.7  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects of colistimethate sodium have been properly addressed.   Data do not reveal 
special hazards to humans.  However, as caveat, colistin is known to have an effect on nerve 
conduction and can cause bronchoconstriction when nebulised. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
A GCP inspection related to the single pivotal study was requested by CHMP to support the validity of 
the clinical data provided. Two study sites in Poland and a CRO in the UK were inspected. The conduct 
of the trial was considered to be generally GCP compliant in both clinical sites in Poland. It was the 
opinion of the inspectors that the data recorded and reported by both of the inspected sites were 
trustworthy and reliable. There was one finding during the inspection of the CRO that was graded as 
major/critical. The critical finding pertained to the finding that the processes for assigning patients to 
ITT and PP datasets were inconsistent.  The applicant has adequately addressed the observations 
made during the inspection and CHMP does not consider that the data are a cause of concern. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 21/66
 
 
 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
The clinical development programme for Colobreathe is based on five clinical studies tabulated below: 
Table 1: 
Study overview 
Study no. 
Study Title  
Duration of treatment and dose 
COLO/DPI/98/01 
An open label study 
to compare tolerance 
and bronchial 
response to nebulised 
colistin and colistin 
dry powder inhalation 
in healthy, mildly 
asthmatic and cystic 
fibrosis volunteers. 
COLO/DPI/98/02   A randomised, open 
PPL-252 
label study to 
compare tolerability 
and bronchial 
response to nebulised 
colistin and colistin 
dry powder inhalation 
in volunteers with 
cystic fibrosis. 
Assessing total and 
regional lung 
deposition of 
colistimethate sodium 
delivered using a dry 
powder inhaler and a 
nebuliser device in 
volunteers with cystic 
fibrosis – a pilot 
study. 
COLO/DPI/02/05 
COLO/DPI/02/06 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
A randomised, open 
label, cross over 
study to compare the 
safety of a dry 
powder formulation of 
inhaled colistimethate 
sodium and nebulised 
colistimethate sodium 
in child and adult 
cystic fibrosis patients 
with Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa lung 
infection. 
A randomised, open 
label study to 
compare the 
efficacy and safety of 
Three study days 2-7 days apart: 
Day 1: Colistin solution for injection 
(80mg; 1 million IU) nebulised over 10 
minutes; 
Day 2: Inhaled salbutamol (200μg) 
and micronised colistin (125mg); 
Day 3: Inhaled micronised colistin 
(125mg). 
Four study days 2-7 days apart: 
Treatment A: Colistin solution for 
injection (80mg; 1 million IU) 
nebulised over 10 minutes; 
Treatment B: Micronised lactose 
(125mg); 
Treatment C: Inhaled salbutamol 
(200μg) and micronised colistin 
(125mg); 
Treatment D: Inhaled micronised 
colistin (125mg). 
The CF patients were randomised to 
receive a single dose of one of three 
treatments on separate study days, 
radiolabelled with 99mTc as follows: 
Regimen A: Inhalation of 1 million IU 
(80mg) of Colomycin® Injection, 
using a Medic-Aid Ventstream® 
nebuliser with a standard flow rate of 
more than 8L/min, producing an 
estimated 80% of the aerosol mass in 
droplets of less than 5μm diameter. 
Inhalation continued until the chamber 
reached at least the minimum volume 
(approximately 0.5-0.75mL) or until 
the chamber was dry. 
Regimen B: Inhalation of 200μg 
salbutamol from a pressurised MDI 
device with a spacer attached followed 
10 minutes later by inhalation of 
125mg colistimethate sodium, from a 
gelatin capsule size 2, using the 
Turbospin® DPI device. 
Regimen C: Inhalation of 125mg 
colistimethate sodium, from a gelatin 
capsule size 2, using the Turbospin® 
DPI device. 
Four weeks per treatment (72h wash-
out period in-between). 
Treatment A: Colistimethate sodium 
DPI (125mg , b.d.) 
Treatment B: Colistimethate sodium 
solution for injection nebulised (2 
million IU, b.d.). 
No. of 
Patients 
12 
Study 
design 
Open label, 
single dose 
12 
12 
Open label, 
randomised 
, four 
segment, 
single 
dose, 
cross-over 
randomised
open-label, 
three-way 
crossover 
study. 
16 
Open label, 
randomised
, multiple 
dose, 
cross-over 
24 weeks. 
Treatment A: Colistimethate sodium 
DPI (125mg , b.d.) 
Treatment B: Tobramycin nebuliser 
380 
Open label, 
randomised
, 
multiple 
Page 22/66
 
 
 
solution for inhalation (TOBI®; 
300mg, b.d.). 
dose, 
comparator 
controlled 
a dry powder 
formulation 
of inhaled 
colistimethate sodium 
and nebulised 
TNSFI (Tobramycin 
nebuliser solution for 
inhalation, TOBI®) in 
cystic fibrosis patients 
over 6 years of age 
with chronic 
Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa lung 
infection. 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical methods 
Colistimethate (CMS) concentrations were determined in blood, urine and sputum using a validated 
microbiological assay that was developed by the Bristol Centre for Antimicrobial Research & Evaluation 
(BCARE). Over a concentration range 0.5 – 40 mg/L the mean accuracy was reported to be 93.7% and 
the intra-assay precision was 3.5 – 18.8%. This method measures total antibacterial activity and then 
infers concentrations from a standard curve. Hence it cannot differentiate the possible sub-components 
that might be present in test samples. 
Absorption  
The applicant attempted to assess absorption of colistimethate sodium from the respiratory tract after 
administration of Colobreathe in two studies in volunteers (healthy or with CF) and in the Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 studies in patients with CF who were colonised with P. aeruginosa. 
  DPI 98/01 was an open-label study in healthy volunteers that compared single administrations of 
colistimethate sodium 1 million IU by nebuliser and as 1,662,500 IU of the micronised dry powder 
(Colobreathe). Urine was collected 0-2 h post-dose and blood was collected 30 minutes pre-dose 
and 30 minutes post-dose. No CMS was detected in pre-dose blood or urine samples. Post-dose 
concentrations in serum were all < 0.5 mg/L whereas concentrations in the 8/24 urine samples 
from six subjects containing > 0.5 mg/L ranged from 1 to 6.6 mg/L. 
  DPI 98/02 was conducted in volunteers with CF and was of similar design to DPI 98/01.  Due to 
uncertainty in the labelling of the assay results at the laboratory, it could not be confirmed which 
subject each set of results represented, whether each result was from urine or serum or whether 
the results were pre- or post-dose. Due to some unexpectedly high concentrations (> 64 mg/L) 
reported initially and some plate contamination with Pseudomonas species the samples were re-
analysed. The majority of re-tests gave concentrations within 1-2 mg/L of those reported initially 
while the two samples previously reported to contain > 64 mg/L were reported as > 32 mg/L on 
repeat but it is not known if these were blood or urine.  
 
In the Phase 2 study COLO DPI/02/05 there were two 4-week active treatment periods with 
inhaled dry powder (1,662,500 IU colistimethate sodium twice daily) and with nebulised 
colistimethate sodium in solution (2 million IU colistin twice daily) in a randomised sequence. In 
both treatment groups, the number of patients with < 1 mg/L in serum was lower at the end of the 
respective treatment period than at baseline but values above this were from 1.1 to 2.4 mg/L.  
Urine concentrations ≥ 4 mg/L were seen in four patients in each group at the end of treatment 
(46 and 52 mg/L for Colobreathe and 7.9 and 41.3 mg/L for nebulisation). 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 23/66
 
 
 
 
 
In the phase 3 study COLO DPI/02/06 1,662,500 IU colistimethate sodium dry powder twice 
daily was compared with TOBI (3 on/off cycles) over 24 weeks. Serum and urine were collected 
pre-dose (Day 1), at Week 4 and at Week 24 (Exit Visit).   
  Of the 492 plasma samples tested approximately 90% had results below LLQ (either 1 or 2 mg/L) 
and 479 had results < 3 mg/L. Values in individual subjects were mostly up to 3.8 mg/L but some  
outliers showed concentrations > 32 mg/L, 29 mg/L and 6.7 mg/L. 
 
In the urine samples from initial sites all except three subjects had at least one urinary 
concentration > 2 mg/L reported. Concentrations > 20 mg/L occurred commonly but 30/496 
samples gave values of around 30 mg/L or higher and approximately half of these results were in 
children aged less than 18 years (some had levels > 64 or > 128 mg/L reported).  
These data remain unexplained (e.g. they cannot be explained by inadequate inactivation of other 
antibacterial agents in samples) and therefore the possibility that these unusually high plasma and 
urine levels indicate that a substantial part of the dose may be absorbed by some patients cannot be 
dismissed.  
The applicant was requested to conduct an additional pharmacokinetic study across the full age range 
and using two assays (one microbiological) to further evaluate systemic absorption in association with 
dry powder inhalation. This study had commenced but only very limited data were available before an 
opinion was reached on the application. The full data will be reported and will be used to update the 
SmPC as seems necessary. Meanwhile it can only be stated that in subjects with CF aged from 13 
years systemic exposure after one week of twice daily dosing with Colobreathe was associated with 
considerably lower plasma levels than have been reported in published literature after intravenous 
dosing. 
Distribution 
Lung deposition and distribution of Tc99-radiolabelled colistimethate sodium after 1,662,500 IU 
dry powder inhalation (with and without pre-treatment with inhaled salbutamol by MDI) was compared 
to nebulisation of 1 million IU in study PPL-252 in 10 volunteers with CF.  
Following administration of 1 million IU colistin in solution using a nebuliser (Regimen A) 49.9% of the 
dose was retained in the nebuliser while an average 5.9% of the dose was deposited in the whole lung. 
On average, and based on the corrected data, 11.9% of the dose was deposited in the lungs from dry 
powder inhaled using the Turbospin device following pre-treatment with salbutamol (B) compared to 
11.6% without pre-treatment with salbutamol (C). Without any correction being made for the 
difference in particle size differences the whole lung deposition from the dry powder administered via 
the Turbospin device averaged 19.3% and 18.7% of the dose with or without pre-treatment with 
salbutamol, respectively.  
The lung penetration index was on average 1.8  0.5 for the nebuliser, 1.5  0.5 for the dry powder via 
the Turbospin device following pre-treatment with salbutamol and 1.2  0.5 without pre-treatment. 
Percentages of the dose deposited in the oropharynx were 2.9%, 70.4% and 71.1%, respectively. The 
FEV 1 data indicated that none of the subjects suffered periods of bronchospasm. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 24/66
 
 
 
Table 2: 
Percentage of administered dose deposited in the lung regions (non-corrected 
data) 
Regimen 
Percentage of dose deposited (mean ± SD) 
Whole Lung 
Central Lung 
Intermediate Lung 
Peripheral Lung 
A 
B 
C 
5.9  3.4 
19.3  8.5 
18.7  6.9 
1.4  0.8 
5.6  3.1 
5.9  2.7 
2.0  1.1 
6.4  3.0 
6.2  2.2 
2.4  1.6 
7.3  2.7 
6.6  3.0 
From these data the applicant concluded that approximately 5.9% (SD ± 3.4%) of a nebulised dose of 
1 million IU colistin (~ 80 mg colistimethate sodium) was deposited in the lungs (i.e. ~ 60,000 units of 
colistin). On this basis, it is assumed that administration of the UK-recommended dose for CF patients 
aged at least 10 years (i.e. 2 million IU colistin or ~ 160 mg colistimethate sodium) by nebulisation 
would result in deposition of ~ 120,000 units of colistin in the lungs.  
Following administration of 1,662,500 IU micronised powder with the Turbospin device approximately 
11.6% (SD + 4.3%) of the dose was deposited in the lungs (i.e. ~ 180,000 units). The applicant 
concluded that one capsule of 1,662,500 IU colistimethate sodium dry powder inhaled twice daily and 
2 million IU colistin administered by nebuliser twice daily should result in comparable lung deposition 
and on this basis proceeded with Colobreathe 1,662,500 IU twice daily dosing in Phase 2 and 3.  
From the literature, it appears that plasma protein binding of colistin is low. One study in cystic fibrosis 
patients estimated the steady-state volume of distribution as 0.09 L/kg. Considerable amounts of 
colistin can cross the placenta and also enter breast milk. 
Elimination 
Regarding metabolism, colistimethate sodium is converted to colistin and various sulphomethylated 
derivatives in vitro and in vivo. As somewhere between 40-80% of the intravenous dose (depending on 
the publication) can be recovered unchanged in the urine and there is no biliary excretion it is assumed 
that the remaining drug is inactivated in the tissues. The mechanism is unknown. One study in CF 
patients suggested that pulmonary clearance via sputum may contribute to total clearance. 
From the literature it appears that the main route of elimination of the polymyxins is by renal 
excretion. It has been reported that in subjects with normal renal function about 40% of a parenteral 
dose of colistimethate sodium is recovered in the urine within 8 h and around 80% in 24 h.  
After inhalation by nebulisation, variable amounts of a colistimethate dose have been reported to 
appear in urine. Using HPLC to quantify polymyxin E1 one paper reported that a mean of 4.3 ± 1.3% 
of the inhaled dose of 2 million IU was detected in the urine, with a high variability in the results 
(range 0.3 – 24.2%). The rate of removal during peritoneal dialysis has been reported to be 1 mg/L 
but haemodialysate contained no detectable levels.  
It has also been reported that whereas colistimethate sodium is renally eliminated and the urinary 
excretion involves renal tubular secretion, colistin itself is eliminated predominantly by the non-renal 
route with very extensive renal tubular re-absorption. Another report mentions that after parenteral 
administration of colistimethate sodium in CF patients the plasma half-life of colistimethate sodium 
(124 ± 52 min) is approximately one-half that of the colistin generated from it (251 ± 79 min).  
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Not applicable. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 25/66
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
It has been reported that colistimethate sodium kinetics appears to be similar in children and adults, 
including the elderly, provided renal function is normal. In the current application the intended age 
range for dosing is from 6 years upwards. Although ~40% of subjects in the Phase 3 study were aged 
< 18 years, the PK data generated were not considered sufficiently reliable to determine systemic 
exposure by age group. It is also not possible to reliably assess any possible differences in systemic 
exposure between nebulised and dry powder doses in any age group. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted. This fact has been stated in the SmPC.  A cautious 
approach has been taken with regard to the wording due to the lack of reliable data on systemic 
exposure. 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Colistin is a cyclic polypeptide antibiotic derived from Bacillus polymyxa var. colistinus and belongs to 
the polymyxin group. Colistin is a mixture of polymyxin A (E1) and B (E2) and is often just denoted as 
polymyxin E. In solution there is hydrolysis of colistimethate sodium to E1 and E2.  
The polymyxin antibiotics are cationic agents that work by damaging the cell membrane. The resulting 
physiological effects are lethal to the bacterium. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Due to the mode of action, colistin is active only against certain Gram-negative aerobes and Gram-
negative facultative anaerobes. Species that are generally susceptible to colistin include Citrobacter 
spp, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The in-vitro results may 
not correlate with clinical responses in the case of Acinetobacter spp. Acquired resistance in normally 
susceptible species is currently a potential problem in Enterobacter species and Klebsiella species.  
Because of the differences between colistimethate, colistin sulphate and colistin base, the 
interpretation of MICs is dependent on which entity has been used for testing. In light of variable 
conversion of colistin methanesulfonate (CMS) and colistin sulphate to colistin, the testing conditions 
may also be critical to the answer obtained. In a 2003 publication in which the stability of CMS and 
colistin under various conditions of testing were assayed using HPLC it was found that the formation of 
colistin in buffer corresponded well with a rapid increase in the antibacterial activity of solutions of CMS 
over time against Escherichia coli. Other reports have shown that the antibacterial activity of colistin 
against P. aeruginosa, E. coli, Enterobacter aerogenes and Klebsiella pneumoniae were 3- to 10-fold 
that of CMS. The EUCAST ECOFF for colistin for most susceptible species is 2 mg/L but the ECOFF for 
P. aeruginosa is 4 mg/L.  
Colistin-resistant bacteria are characterised by phosphate groups of lipopolysaccharide that are 
substituted with ethanolamine or aminoarabinose. Naturally resistant Gram-negative bacteria, such as 
Proteus mirabilis and Burkholderia cepacia, show complete substitution of their lipid phosphate by 
ethanolamine or aminoarabinose. Cross resistance between colistimethate sodium and polymyxin B 
(the only other polymyxin that is available for clinical use) would be expected.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 26/66
 
 
 
Since the mechanism of action of the polymyxins is different from that of other antibacterial agents, 
resistance to colistin and polymyxin B by means of changes in lipid phosphate groups would not be 
expected to result in resistance to other drug classes. However, some bacteria may show cross-
resistance to polymyxins and agents in other classes as a result of impermeability and/or efflux pumps.  
The applicant has not conducted any studies of the in-vitro activity of colistin. Literature reports were 
summarised but in many cases it is not known which substance was used for in-vitro testing or the 
methodology that was applied. For example, in-vitro activity was assessed against 385 mucoid and 
non-mucoid strains of P. aeruginosa isolated from 192 sputa that were obtained from 57 adult CF 
patients during 1998-1999 in Germany. Only 38% of the non-mucoid and 45% of the mucoid strains 
were susceptible at 2 mg/L. In contrast a recent study in Turkey, which tested isolates from CF 
patients in Istanbul, the MIC90 for colistin methanesulfonate was 2 mg/L. A survey of P. aeruginosa 
isolates from CF patients in the UK showed that 96.9% were susceptible to colistin based on the BSAC 
breakpoints operative at the time. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Colistin has long been known to exert an effect on nerve conduction that appears to be related to an 
ability to inhibit acetylcholine release at somatic nerve endings in skeletal muscle. Weakness and 
paralysis can result if plasma concentrations are allowed to increase unnecessarily and/or if colistin is 
co-administered with other drugs (e.g. curariform agents) that have this effect. An exacerbation of 
myasthenia gravis is also possible. However, the effect of colistin on sensory nerves and its ability to 
trigger vertigo and ataxia seem to be mediated by a different mechanism that has not been elucidated. 
The effect of colistin on renal function is not well understood although some studies have shown a 
decrease in creatinine and urea clearance during therapy.  
When administered by inhalation of colistimethate sodium in solution via nebulisation local 
bronchoconstriction has been reported to occur as has been described with other inhaled antibacterial 
agents. This effect is distinct from the true hypersensitivity reactions that may occasionally occur and 
may be due simply to a local irritation effect on the mucosa. Published data suggest that a significant 
drop in FEV1 occurs in < 20% of subjects. The applicant assessed the potential for Colobreathe to 
trigger bronchoconstriction in two studies: 
*  In  DPI  98/01  bronchoconstrictive  effects  were  compared  following  administration  of  nebulised  (1 
million  IU)  and  micronised  (i.e.  1,662,500  IU  dry  powder)  colistimethate  sodium  in  healthy  subjects. 
The dry powder was administered with and without pre-medication with inhaled salbutamol (by MDI). 
Subjects  underwent  continuous  specific  airways  conductance  measurements  (sGaw)  in  a  whole  body 
plethysmograph  at  four  hours  following  each  dosing.  Forced  expiratory  volume  (FEV1)  was  measured 
at baseline and at four hours post-inhalation on each study day.  
A mean of 82% of the mass of colistimethate sodium dry powder was delivered when Colobreathe was 
administered  after  salbutamol  pre-medication  (103  mg;  SD  44)  and  90%  was  delivered  when 
Colobreathe was administered alone (113 mg; SD 37). There were no clinically significant differences 
in  mean  FEV 1  (L)  (pre-dose,  4  hours  post-dose)  between  nebulised  and  dry  powder  treatment 
regimens. Mean percentage change in FEV1 4 hours post-dose  (2.7, SD 5.2) was slightly greater for 
dry powder plus salbutamol pre-medication than for nebulisation (-0.9, SD 6.2) and dry powder alone 
(-0.2, SD 4.1).  
Mean  sGaw  (s-1kPa-1)  readings  post  dose  showed  no  significant  differences  between  groups  from 
baseline to 240 min post-dose. However, the percentage change in sGaw measurements over baseline 
(up  to  200  min  post-dose)  was  greater  for  dry  powder  with  salbutamol  pre-medication  than  with  dry 
powder alone, showing an improvement in airways resistance. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 27/66
 
 
 
Figure 2: 
e
g
n
a
h
c
%
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
0
50
100
150
200
250
Time (mins)
Nebulised Colistin
Dry Powder
Salbutamol & Dry Powder
Mean Percentage Change in Specific Airway Conductance 
In a published study that investigated inhalation of 25 mg dry powder colistin sulphate a decrease in 
pulmonary function was observed for six healthy volunteers (FEV1 mean percentage change at 3.5 h of 
-2.78%) and five patients (FEV1 mean percentage change at 3.5 h of -6.62%) after dosing. The FEV1 
and  specific  airway  conductance  readings  obtained  in  study  DPI  98/01  indicated  that  inhalation  of 
nebulised  and  dry  powder  colistimethate  did  not  induce  any  degree  of  bronchoconstriction  in  healthy 
volunteers. This finding is contrary to the published study using the sulphate and would be consistent 
with lack of hydrolysis in vivo of colistimethate to colistin sulphate. 
*  In  DPI  98/02  an  additional  control  arm  (micronised  lactose  powder)  was  added  compared  to  DPI 
98/01  with  the  aim  of  determining  whether  any  bronchoconstriction  observed  was  due  simply  to  the 
physical  properties  of  inhaling  1,662,500  IU  (125mg)  dry  powder.  The  study  was  therefore  a  four-
segment, single-dose cross-over study involving 12 adult subjects with CF.  
A  mean  of  76%  of  the  mass  of  colistimethate  sodium  dry  powder  was  delivered  when  it  was 
administered alone (94 mg, SD 30) compared to a mean of 90% delivered when it was delivered with 
salbutamol  pre-medication  (112  mg,  SD  40).  These  results  were  consistent  with  the  data  from  DPI 
98/01 in healthy volunteers. A mean of 51% of the mass of micronised lactose was delivered (64 mg, 
SD  43)  and  it  was  considered  that  poor  flow  from  the  capsule  was  a  possible  explanation  for  this 
relatively low delivery.  
There  was  a  wide  range  in  baseline  pulmonary  function  with  a  mean  FEV1%  predicted  of  50%  but  a 
range from 21% - 98%. However, there was no correlation between baseline FEV 1% predicted and the 
mass  of  micronised  dry  powder  delivered.  The  applicant  considered  that  the  Turbospin  inhaler  was 
reliable in delivering a consistent mass (albeit greater than anticipated from preceding in-vitro studies) 
of micronised colistimethate sodium irrespective of lung function status. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 28/66
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  no  clinically significant  differences  of  mean  FEV1, FVC,  PEF  or MMEF  (pre-dose  up  to  240 
minutes  post-dose)  between  the  four  different  treatment  regimens.  The  mean  percentage  change  in 
FEV 1  over  4  h  was  slightly  greater  for colistin  with  salbutamol  pre-medication  compared  with  colistin 
alone.  However,  no  clinically  significant  decrease  in  pulmonary  function  was  observed  after  colistin 
administration  and  there  were  no  clinically  significant  differences  in  pulmonary  function  between 
treatments. It was concluded that the nebulised and micronised powder formulations of colistimethate 
sodium did not induce bronchoconstriction.  
2.4.4  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The erratic PK results reported in the initial dossier could reflect several factors but it remains 
impossible to dismiss the possibility that some of the reported high concentrations could be real. The 
available data do not allow a comparison between systemic exposures during nebulisation vs. DPI 
treatment. Blood levels reported after IV dosing have been variable, probably reflecting the doses and 
the biological assay used. However, a range from 6 - 30 mg/L has been reported after dosing within 
the recommended range using infusions or bolus injections. Study PPL-252 suggested that 
administration of 1,662,500 IU micronised powder with the Turbospin device deposited ~11.6% (SD + 
4.3%) of the dose in the lungs (i.e. ~ 180,000 units) so that the average dose delivered by inhalation 
is perhaps up to 400,000 IU per day. This compares with parenteral doses up to 6 million IU daily in 
adults and a minimum dose ~750,000 IU/daily for children aged 6 years and at least 15 kg body 
weight. On this basis, even if the entire dose delivered using Colobreathe (1.6 million IU twice daily) 
was to leave the Turbospin and get absorbed from the lungs and oropharynx the systemic exposure 
should be considerably less than that associated with IV dosing. 
The applicant has commenced a new study that will generate PK data across age groups and will use 
biological and non-biological assays. Meanwhile, since theoretical considerations all point to much 
lower systemic exposure using Colobreathe vs. intravenous dosing it was considered that the outlier 
results obtained using the microbiological assay most likely reflect unidentified errors. Nevertheless, 
until such time as the new study provides information on systemic exposure across age groups the 
SmPC must take a cautious approach.  
2.4.5  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address the issues related to pharmacology: 
Full data to be reported on the ongoing additional pharmacokinetic study across the full age range and 
using two assays (one microbiological) to further evaluate systemic absorption in association with dry 
powder inhalation. 
2.5  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1  Dose response studies 
No formal dose-ranging studies have been performed with Colobreathe. The selection of the dose for 
main trial is defined by the deposition study using radio labelled colistimethate sodium (Study PPL-
252). In this study 125mg colistimethate DP for inhalation was calculated to give similar whole lung 
deposition to 2-3 Million International Units (160-240mg) colistimethate when given using a Medic-Aid 
Ventstream® nebuliser. The recommended nebulised dose is 2 million IU (160mg) for children and 
adults and therefore 125mg (1.6 million IU) was selected as an appropriate dose. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 29/66
 
 
 
 
2.5.2  Main study 
  COLO/DPI/02/06  -  Randomised,  open  label  study  to  compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  a  dry 
powder  formulation  of inhaled  colistimethate  sodium  and  TOBI  (Tobramycin  nebuliser  solution  for 
inhalation) in cystic fibrosis patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection.  
This  was  an  open-label  randomised  and  active-controlled  study  of  Colobreathe  versus  TOBI  in  CF 
patients from the age of 6 years upwards colonised with P. aeruginosa and was conducted from 2004-
2007. There were 66 active study sites spread across 10 EU Member States plus Russia and Ukraine. 
The study was conducted and monitored on behalf of the sponsor by a UK-based CRO. 
This  was  the  single  pivotal  Phase  3  study  in  the  application.  The  clinical  programme  did  not  evaluate 
efficacy against placebo.   
Methods 
Study Participants 
Due to differences in the availability and usage of TOBI in participating countries and to ensure that all 
patients had received at least two cycles of TOBI before the randomised treatment period commenced, 
a run-in period was incorporated by protocol amendment affecting four countries.  
 
To be eligible for the run-in period subjects were to be aged at least 6 years with diagnosis of CF 
from  a  specialist  CF  unit  (genotype  and/or  positive  sweat  tests)  and  willing  to  receive  TOBI  in  a 
cycle of 28 days active therapy followed by 28 days of rest from treatment. Other criteria were as 
for the main study. 
 
To  be  eligible  for  randomisation  subjects  were  to  be  aged  at  least  6  years  with  a  documented 
diagnosis of CF from a specialist CF unit (genotype and/or positive sweat tests). They were to have 
received  a  minimum  of  two  TOBI  cycles  (on/off;  28  days  each  and  off  not  to  exceed  35  days) 
immediately  prior  to  randomisation.  Patients  were  non-smokers  or  had  not  smoked  within  12 
months of the first study drug administration (Visit 1). 
CF  was  to  be  clinically  stable  in  the  investigator’s  opinion  with  no  evidence  of  acute  respiratory 
exacerbation (according to a standard definition in the protocol) within 28 days prior to Visit 1. FEV1 
had to be at least 25% but no more than 75% of predicted value using the Knudson predicted values 
tables.  Lung  function  had  to  be  clinically  stable  (investigator’s  decision)  at  Visit  1  prior  to 
randomisation. Patients were to have P. aeruginosa infection defined as: 
(i)  ≥  50%  samples  (minimum  of  3  samples:  sputum  samples  or  throat  swabs)  positive  for  P. 
aeruginosa over the 12 months prior to Visit 1 OR 
(ii)  Two  samples  (sputum  samples  or  throat  swabs)  positive  for  P.  aeruginosa  over  the  previous  6 
months prior to Visit 1. 
The  exclusion  criteria  were  generally  common  to  the  run-in  period  and  to  randomisation.  Most 
pertinent  of  these  were  evidence  of  an  acute  respiratory  exacerbation  at  Visit  1,  hypersensitivity  or 
previous  intolerance  to  colistimethate  sodium  or  β2  agonists,  pregnancy  or  breastfeeding,  patients 
receiving  anti-pseudomonal  agents  specifically  for  the  treatment  of  an  exacerbation  or  pre-scheduled 
prophylactic  courses  of  oral  antibacterial  agents  at  Visit  1  (but  see  permitted  treatments  below)  and 
those with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 30/66
 
 
 
Treatments 
Patients of all ages received either 1,662,500 IU Colobreathe (i.e. 1,662,500 IU colistimethate sodium) 
twice daily for inhalation using a Turbospin device or 300 mg TOBI twice daily by nebulisation using a 
PARI LC Plus nebuliser. The dose interval was to be as close as possible to 12 hours and not less than 
6 hours for both regimens. The general treatment plan over the 24 weeks of the study was as follows: 
Figure 3: 
Bronchodilator inhalers and pre-existing non anti-pseudomonal CF medications and antibacterial agents 
(e.g. ciprofloxacin) for prophylaxis or other agents (e.g. azithromycin) if taken for long-term use were 
permitted  during  the  study.  After  randomisation  patients  who  needed  admission  for  an  acute 
respiratory exacerbation continued study medication throughout. Rescue medication was allowed under 
protocol-defined  circumstances.  All  children  had  to  have  a  responsible  adult  to  supervise  (as  far  as 
possible) study treatment. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to quantify any change in FEV1 % predicted compared to baseline (on 
entry to the study at Visit 1 [Day 1]). 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 31/66
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary objectives were: 
i.  To quantify changes in antibacterial susceptibility of P. aeruginosa isolates (MIC at Week 24) 
ii.  To compare QoL to establish superior ease of administration  
iii.  To assess clinical and laboratory safety of 24 weeks of treatment  
iv.  To compare weight and BMI changes 
v.  To compare time to first acute respiratory exacerbation and time to first use (and duration of use) 
of systemic anti-pseudomonal antibacterial treatment for acute respiratory exacerbation 
vi.  Other pulmonary function tests including FEV1 % predicted at Week 20 and change in FVC, PEFR, 
FEV1 and FEF25-75 
vii.  Use of concomitant medication including bronchodilators or rescue medication 
viii. To compare the drop-out rates. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable was the change in FEV1 % predicted from baseline (Visit 1) to Week 
24  (Visit  6).  The  FEV1  %  predicted  =  [Highest  FEV1  /  predicted  FEV1]  *  100.  The  change  from 
baseline  to  Week  24  of  FEV1  %  predicted  results  was  summarised  separately  for  patients  who 
completed  the  study  (i.e.  with  a  baseline  and  a  Week  24  result)  and  for  all  patients  using  LOCF 
imputation to Week 24 for missing data. 
Respiratory  function  tests  (spirometry  and  expiratory  curve  of  the  flow  volume  loop)  were  measured 
using  suitable  equipment  (spirometry  or  body  plethysmography)  that  was  capable  of  printing  records 
that  could  be  stored  with  the  patient’s  CRF.  All  testing  was  performed  according  to  the  American 
Thoracic  Society  (ATS)  criteria.  Pulmonary  function  testing  was  carried  out  at  each  visit  by  an 
independent observer who was unaware of the patient’s treatment assignment.  
For a given patient, pulmonary function testing was performed at the same time of day for each study 
assessment.  There  was  a  minimum  time  window  of  2  hours  between  inhalation  of  bronchodilator 
agents (whether short- or long-acting) and performance of spirometry. 
MICs  of  colistin  and  tobramycin  against  P.  aeruginosa  were  determined  using  the  E-test  system  at  a 
reference  laboratory  (UK  HPA).  If  resistance  appeared  to  develop  during  the  study  the  isolates  from 
individual patients were investigated by PFGE of DNA macrorestriction digests.  
The QoL questionnaires for CF used were those developed in the United States by Quittner, based on 
versions that were first developed in France. The CFQ-Rs were completed at Visit 1 (study start) and 
then  at  Visits  2,  5,  and  6.  Patients  who  shifted  questionnaire  age  brackets  during  the  study  did  not 
switch CFQ-R version. 
Sample size 
Based on the publication of Ramsey et al. (1999) with preservative-free TOBI it was assumed that the 
SD  of  the  primary  outcome  variable  (FEV1 %  predicted)  was  about  16%.  To  test  for  this  hypothesis, 
the 95% two-sided CI for the difference between the two groups was computed and if the lower limit 
was  not  less  than  -3.0%  then  non-inferiority  was  to  be  accepted.  To  detect  this  difference,  with 
α=0.05  and  β=0.20,  162  evaluable  patients  for  the  TOBI  group  and  162  evaluable  patients  for  the 
Colobreathe group were required. These calculations were based on a 2-group t-test with a 0.05 two-
sided  significance  level  and  a  common  SD  of  16%,  and  assumed  a  difference  of  2%  in  favour  of 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 32/66
 
 
 
Colobreathe against TOBI. Assuming a 10% drop-out/non-compliance rate, approximately 360 patients 
were  to  be  entered  into  the  study  (180  TOBI  patients  and  180  Colobreathe  patients)  to  obtain  324 
evaluable patients. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation and recruitment was as follows: 
  At  study  entry  (with  or  without  completion  of  the  run-in  period)  patients  were  randomised  to 
treatment (1:1) using an interactive voice response system (IVRS).  
 
The block size used for each centre’s first allocation was 6. A block size of 4 applied thereafter. 
  Each  centre  was  to  recruit  approximately  3  to  10  patients  although  it  was  envisaged  that  certain 
specialist CF centres (with a significant number of patients routinely nebulising TOBI) would recruit 
larger numbers of patients. 
 
The  statistical  analysis  was  planned  to  investigate  whether  there  were  any  centre  effects  and 
whether any particular centres were influencing the outcome. 
Blinding (masking) 
The study report states that a double-blind design was not feasible in light of obvious differences in the 
administration method. Using a double-dummy approach would have ruled out an assessment of any 
potential administration advantages of Colobreathe over TOBI.  
Statistical methods 
Initially there were three populations defined for the analyses as follows: 
  Safety population: all randomised and treated patients. 
 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population: all randomised and treated with laboratory-confirmed chronic 
infection. This population was used for all efficacy analyses. 
  Per Protocol (PP) population: all randomised and treated patients who met the criteria for 
efficacy evaluable patients and did not meet the violation criteria. This population was used for the 
primary efficacy endpoint and other pulmonary function endpoints only. 
An additional analysis was performed for the patients with a baseline and week 24 result (i.e. 
completers).  
For  the  analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint  the  applicant  calculated  the  actual  difference  between 
treatments in mean FEV1% predicted at week 24 i.e. expressed in difference in percentage points. This 
approach was in line with the derivation of the non-inferiority margin recommendation by the CHMP. A 
95%  two-sided  CI,  based  on  the  ANCOVA  model,  was  computed  for  the  difference  of  Colobreathe 
minus TOBI. If the lower bound was no lower than -3% for both the PP and ITT populations it was to 
be  concluded  that  Colobreathe  was  non-inferior  to  TOBI.  The  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  was 
performed  using  main  effects  of  treatment,  baseline  FEV1  %  predicted  and  pooled  centre.  Adjusted 
means by treatment were presented as well as an estimate of the difference between adjusted means. 
The  analysis  was  presented  for  patients  who  completed  the  study  and  also  for  all  patients  using  a 
method of LOCF imputation to Week 24 for missing data. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 33/66
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
The figure below summarises patient disposition. The percentage of patients who completed the study 
was  numerically  higher  in  the  TOBI  group,  reflecting  a  higher  number  of  patients  in  the  Colobreathe 
group whose primary reason for withdrawal was at least one AE. Review of patients who discontinued 
due  to  “patient  request”  included  others  who  experienced  adverse  reactions  and  some  who  did  not 
want to be randomised to TOBI. 
Figure 4: 
Patient Disposition 
Conduct of the study 
There  were  9  amendments  to  the  protocol  of  which  7  occurred  after  initiation  of  enrolment  on  25 
March 2004. The most important reduced the lower age limit from 8 to 6 years and added a run-in for 
countries where TOBI was not routinely available or used (Russia, Ukraine and UK).  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 34/66
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The ITT population comprised 170 (45.5%) female and 204 (54.5%) male patients. The mean age was 
21.1 years with a range from 6 to 56 years and overall 59% were aged > 18 years (59%) while 18% 
were  aged  6  to  12  years  and  23%  were  aged  13  to  17  years.  However,  the  distribution  of  children 
across sites was uneven. At the Ukraine sites 53/66 (80%) were less than 18 years old, including 34 
(52%)  aged  6-12  years,  19  (28%)  aged  13-17  years  and  only  13  (20%)  adults.  In  contrast,  at  the 
non-Ukraine  sites  only  104  (33%)  were  aged  <  18  years  with  35  (11%)  aged  6-12  years  and  69 
(22%) aged 13-17 years. Therefore, the Ukraine contributed 34/69 (49%) of the total aged 6-12 years 
in the entire study, 22% of all patients aged 13-17 years and <10% of the adults.   
In all three analysis sets, the two treatment groups were comparable with respect to all demographic 
parameters.  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  with 
respect  to  disease-related  baseline  characteristics.  In  particular,  44.8%  and  49.7%  per  group  had  a 
baseline  FEV1  %  predicted  that  was  <  50%  (noting  that  the  “baseline”  value  was  almost  always  the 
screening value since most patients had a combined screening/baseline visit).  
The  actual  mean  FEV1  %  predicted  at  screening  in  the  ITT  population  was  52.01  in  the  Colobreathe 
group  and  50.88  in  the  TOBI  group,  with  median  values  of  52.55  and  50.47,  respectively.  For  those 
aged 6-12 years the mean FEV1 % predicted values at screening were 54.15 and 52.14 per treatment 
group compared to 51.26 and 52.69 for those aged 13-17 years.  
Table 3 
In  the  ITT  population,  comparable  proportions  in  the  Colobreathe  and  TOBI  groups  were  ≥  75% 
adherent to study medication (66.7% and 70.7%, respectively). The most frequently used concomitant 
medication  were  enzyme  preparations  (93.4%  Colobreathe  94.2%  TOBI  group),  mucolytics  (74.3% 
and  79.1%),  selective  β2-adrenoreceptor  agonists  (76.5%  and  71.2%),  other  plain  vitamin 
preparations (59.6% and 55.5%) and macrolides (49.7% and 51.3%). Azithromycin was taken by 85 
(46.4%)  Colobreathe  and  97  (50.8%)  TOBI  patients  while  dornase  alpha  was  taken  by  51.4%  and 
55.0%. Azithromycin and/or dornase alpha was used by 72.1% and 75.4% per group.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 35/66
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Of 380 randomised patients, six patients (4 Colobreathe) did not have a laboratory confirmed chronic 
infection and were excluded from the ITT population. Protocol violations in 46 Colobreathe and 35 TOBI 
patients led to the different proportions included in the PP population and mostly reflected Colobreathe 
patients given the wrong treatment (3 vs. 0), non-adherence (3 vs. 0), prohibited medication (23 vs. 
18) or other violations (2 vs. 0).  
Table 4: 
Data Analysis Sets 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Analysis 
Based on the LOCF approach there was a negative mean change in FEV1% predicted from baseline (-
0.9 percentage points) in the Colobreathe group compared to positive mean change (+0.35 percentage 
points) in the TOBI group. These values gave a difference of -1.25 and an adjusted difference of -1.16 
percentage  points.  The  corresponding  adjusted  difference  for  the  completers  was  smaller  (-0.43 
percentage  points).  The  median  values  were  all  negative  but  less  so  in  the  TOBI  group  vs.  the 
Colobreathe group. The minimum and maximum changes indicated that there was considerable inter-
patient variability in FEV1% during the course of the study. The lower limits of the 95% CI around the 
adjusted  mean  treatment  differences  were  marginally  below  (-3.15%  for  ITT  LOCF)  and  above  (-
2.59% for ITT completers). 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 36/66
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Change in FEV1 predicted at Week 24 (ITT population) 
Figure 5: 
Primary endpoint: FEV1 % predicted percentage change from baseline (ITT 
Population) 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 37/66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the PP population, the corresponding adjusted difference was -1.49% (95% CI: -3.79%, 0.81%) in 
the  LOCF  analysis  with  -0.99%  (95%  CI:  -3.48%,  1.51%)  for  patients  who  completed  the  study. 
Therefore the criterion for concluding non-inferiority was not met.  
Table 6: 
Change in FEV1% predicted at Week 24 (PP population) 
The  treatment-by-pooled  centre  interaction  was  not  statistically  significant  and  was  therefore  not 
included in the model. Also, no difference in the drop-out rates was detected. However, because of an 
indication  of  departures  from  normality,  the  ANCOVA  using  the  main  effects  of  treatment,  baseline 
FEV1%  predicted  and  pooled  centre  was  repeated  on  logarithmically  transformed  data.  Comparisons 
between treatment groups were presented as ratios. The non-inferiority criterion for the lower limit of 
the  95%  CI  of  -3%  for  the  treatment  difference  was  equivalent  to  a  lower  limit  of  0.94  for  the 
treatment ratio. This ratio of 0.94 comes from the fact that as the middle of the inclusion criterion is a 
predicted FEV1% of 50%, an absolute change of 3% is a relative change of 6%. 
In the ITT population, the adjusted mean ratio was 0.980 (95% CI: 0.943, 1.018) in the LOCF analysis 
and  0.994  (95%  CI:  0.955,  1.035)  for  patients  who  completed  the  study.  When  the  treatment  ratio 
was converted to a treatment difference using the unadjusted TOBI geometric mean as the multiplier 
in the conversion formula, the adjusted mean difference was -0.97% (95% CI: -2.74%, 0.86%) in the 
LOCF analysis and -0.29% (95% CI: -2.21%, 1.71%) for patients who completed the study. Therefore 
the criterion for non-inferiority was met. The corresponding results for the PP population showed that 
the criterion for non-inferiority was marginally missed in the PP  LOCF analysis but was met in the PP 
completers analysis. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 38/66
 
 
 
 
Table 7: 
Change in FEV1% predicted at Week 24 (ITT population) – data 
logarithmically transformed 
In  the  logarithmic  transformation  analyses  a  significant  (just)  treatment-by-pooled  centre  interaction 
was  observed  in  the  ITT  LOCF  analysis  (p=0.0495)  but  this  was  not  found  in  the  ITT  completers 
(p=0.1192), PP LOCF (p=0.1203) or PP completers (p=0.3070). The interaction was explained by the 
fact that in some pooled centres the treatment effect was in favour of Colobreathe and in others it was 
in  favour  of  TOBI.  Accordingly  additional  exploratory  analyses  were  performed  on  logarithmically 
transformed  data  that  included  the  interaction  term  in  the  model.  In  the  ITT  population,  the  table 
shows that the pre-defined criterion for non-inferiority was met in the LOCF and completers analyses 
when the treatment by centre interaction was included in the model.  
Table 8: 
Change 
in  FEV1  %  predicted  at  Week  24  (ITT  population)  –  Data 
Logarithmically  Transformed  –  Treatment-by-pooled  centre 
interaction 
included in model 
The  assumption  of  normality  was  not  fully  satisfied  after  logarithmic  transformation  of  the  data  so  a 
non-parametric  analysis  was  also  performed.  Firstly,  95%  CIs  for  the  difference  between  treatment 
groups  were  determined  using  distribution-free  methods  based  on  the  Wilcoxon  Rank  Sum  Test 
without adjustment for pooled centre. Secondly, 95% CIs for the difference between treatment groups 
were  determined  using  distribution-free  methods  based  on  the  Van  Elteren  Test  with  adjustment  for 
pooled  centre.  In  ITT  (lower  95%  CI  -2.16  and  -1.61)  and  PP  populations  (-2.57  and  -2.14)  the 
criterion for non-inferiority was met in the LOCF and completers analysis.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 39/66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite the use of a run-in period with TOBI the statistical analyses revealed a highly significant centre 
effect due to pooled data that corresponded to the Ukrainian centres. Patients at the various Ukrainian 
centres  did  not  show  a  uniform  pattern  of  responses  to  either  treatment  regimen.  The  applicant 
performed  a  subgroup  analysis  after  exclusion  of  the  Ukrainian  patients  and  compared  this  to  the 
primary analysis. 
 
 
There were 308 patients (Colobreathe 151) in the ITT population after excluding Ukraine. 
There were 236 patients (Colobreathe 111 patients) in the PP population after excluding Ukraine. 
Figure 6: 
Primary endpoint: FEV1 % predicted change from baseline (ITT population) 
The figure above shows the FEV1% predicted change from baseline for all ITT patients and for 
Ukrainian versus non-Ukrainian patients who were included in the ITT population.  It becomes clear 
that across all the Ukrainian centres the change from baseline was greater for both treatments (and 
despite the TOBI run-in period) compared to the non-Ukrainian patients. After exclusion of the 
Ukrainian patients the non-inferiority criterion was reached for both (LOCF) ITT (-1.67%) and PP (-
2.4%) populations (using type III estimates). The criterion was also met for the completers. An 
additional analysis of the primary efficacy variable after excluding Ukraine was performed using type II 
estimates. In the LOCF analysis, the adjusted treatment difference in the change in FEV1 % predicted 
at Week 24 analysis was -1.36% (95% CI: -3.25, 0.54) for all patients in the ITT population. In 
completers, the adjusted treatment difference was -0.75% (95% CI: -2.81%, 1.31%) in the ITT 
population. 
The following analyses were performed using the untransformed data. 
The change in FEV1 % predicted at Week 24 according to baseline FEV1 subgroups (</> 50% 
predicted) gave comparable results for the two treatment groups. In the ITT population, the lower limit 
of the 95% CI was above -3% for the FEV1 <50% predicted subgroup but not the FEV1 ≥50% 
predicted subgroup. Similar results were obtained for the PP population in the LOCF and completers 
analysis. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 40/66
 
 
 
 
Table 9: 
The applicant provided additional tabulations of percentages with positive and negative changes in 
FEV1% predicted from baseline to week 24 by 3, 6 and 9 percentage points for all patients, by the 
three age groups and also according to baseline FEV1% predicted </> 50%. In the categorical analysis 
for all ITT patients there was no consistent trend in favour of either treatment. Using the LOCF but not 
using the completers approach there were more Colobreathe patients with negative changes but this 
only occurred in the last category (>-9%). 
The 6-12 years group showed larger numbers in the Colobreathe group with the greatest positive 
changes from baseline (12 vs. 7) whereas the opposite occurred in the adolescents (7 vs. 13). Among 
the adults the results were comparable across all categories of change from baseline. For patients with 
baseline FEV1 values of < 50% and ≥ 50% there were no consistent trends. However, the subset with 
higher baseline values showed larger numbers in the Colobreathe with the last category negative 
change. For the most part the same patterns applied in the tabulations of the PP population data 
although numbers and differences between groups were mostly smaller. 
In the ITT population, the FEV1 % predicted values at Week 24 for the two treatments were 
comparable within each age sub-group but the lower limit of the 95% CI was above -3% only for 
adults (59% of the study population). Similar results were obtained for the PP population in the LOCF 
and completers analysis. Due to the preponderance of children enrolled at the Ukraine sites and in light 
of the additional tabulations that showed a particular advantage for Colobreathe at the Ukraine sites 
but not at other sites among those aged 6-12 years it seemed that it was the Ukraine data that was 
driving the overall finding shown below that the benefit of Colobreathe might be most marked for the 
youngest group. In contrast, the FVE1% data suggested least benefit for the adolescents and broadly 
comparable benefit for the adults.  
It was considered that these findings merited further exploration and additional questions have been 
suggested for the D180 LoOI. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 41/66
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: 
Change from baseline (untransformed data from CSR) 
In the ITT population, the change in FEV1% predicted values from baseline to Week 24 showed slightly 
greater treatment differences in female patients. The lower limit of the 95% CI was above -3% for the 
male completer patients only. Similar results were obtained for the PP population in the LOCF and 
completers analysis, although the lower limit of the 95% CI was below -3% for all analyses.  
In the ITT population, the change in FEV1 % predicted values from baseline to Week 24 showed that 
treatment differences in patients who had not used azithromycin or dornase alpha at baseline were 
higher than in patients who had. The lower limit of the 95% CI was above -3% for the patients who 
had used azithromycin or dornase alpha at baseline only. Similar results were obtained for the PP 
population in the LOCF and completers analysis although the lower limit of the 95% CI was below -3% 
for each analysis. 
The use and timing of use of bronchodilators was comparable between treatments with little change 
during the 24 weeks of study except that slightly more Ukraine patients started salbutamol during the 
study period. The applicant was asked to evaluate the possible effects of allowing spirometry to be 
performed when only 2 h had elapsed since use of a bronchodilator. Further statistical analyses for 
FEV1 at 24 weeks (logarithmically transformed data) were performed according to use of 
bronchodilators in the ITT population. Patients were categorised according to no use within 4 weeks of 
FEV1 measurement or use afterwards only vs. those for whom the CRF indicated bronchodilator use 
prior to the FEV1 measurement. These additional analyses (for LOCF ITT and PP populations) 
supported the efficacy of Colobreathe among patients who did not take bronchodilators within 4 hours 
of pulmonary function testing and/or were not taking bronchodilating drugs. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 42/66
 
 
 
 
Other pulmonary function tests 
 
The adjusted treatment difference for the change in FVC from baseline to Week 24/Exit Visit (Visit 
6) was 0.01 L (95% CI: -0.09, 0.10 L) in the ITT population (p=0.886) and -0.02 L (95% CI: -
0.12, 0.08 L) in the PP population (p=0.697). 
 
The adjusted treatment difference for the change in PEFR from baseline to Week 24/Exit Visit (Visit 
6) was -3.32 L/min (95% CI: -16.31, 9.67 L/min) in the ITT population (p=0.616) and -8.73 L/min 
(95% CI: -22.69, 5.22 L/min) in the PP population (p=0.219). The ITT results at weeks 20 and 24 
demonstrated differences in mean but not median values, with a large range in both treatment 
groups. 
 
The adjusted treatment difference for the change in FEV1 from baseline to Week 24/Exit Visit (Visit 
6) was -0.05 L/s (95% CI: -0.12, 0.01 L/s) in the ITT population (p=0.120) and -0.07 L/s (95% 
CI: -0.14, 0.01 L/s) in the PP population (p=0.077). A detectable treatment difference was 
observed for the change in FEV1 from baseline to Week 4 (Visit 2) in the PP population (adjusted 
treatment difference, -0.06 L/s [95% CI: -0.13, -0.00 L/s], p=0.048) but not in the ITT population. 
 
The adjusted treatment difference for the change in FEF25-75 from baseline to Week 24/Exit Visit 
(Visit 6) was -0.12 L/s (95% CI: -0.23, -0.01 L/s) in the ITT population and -0.12 L/s (95% CI: -
0.26, 0.01 L/s) in the PP population. A significant difference in favour of comparative therapy was 
detectable in the ITT population (p=0.038) but not in the PP population (p=0.063). Treatment 
differences (p<0.05) were observed in both populations for the changes in FEF25-75 from baseline 
to Week 4 (Visit 2), to Week 8 (Visit 3), and to Week 20 (Visit 5) in favour of the comparator.  
 
For the ITT and PP populations, the analyses of the other pulmonary function tests by paediatric 
age group showed a small number of detectable treatment differences, which are shown in the 
table below. These were all in favour of the comparative therapy. However, the actual differences 
were small. 
Table 11: 
Other pulmonary function tests by paediatric age group 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 43/66
 
 
 
 
Time to acute respiratory exacerbation and to first additional anti-pseudomonal treatment 
In the ITT population, the mean period of time to acute respiratory exacerbation (overall) was slightly 
longer in the Colobreathe group (63.70 days) than in the TOBI group (59.39 days). The mean period of 
time to non-protocol-defined acute exacerbations was 83.32 days in the Colobreathe group compared 
to 67.06 days in the TOBI group.  
The  mean  time  to  first  additional  anti-pseudomonal  treatment  was  55.28  days  in  the  Colobreathe 
group and 51.79 days in the TOBI group. The results of the PP population were similar and confirmed 
the ITT results. In the ITT population the mean duration of use of additional anti-pseudomonal agents 
was  slightly  lower  in  the  Colobreathe  group  (13.6  days)  than  in  the  TOBI  group  (14.4  days).  The 
results of the PP population were similar and confirmed the ITT results. 
In  the  6-12  years  ITT  and  PP  populations,  the  mean  time  to  acute  exacerbation  was  nearly  twice  as 
long  in  the  Colobreathe  group  compared  to  the  TOBI  group.  There  was  also  a  substantial  difference 
between  the  treatment  groups  for  time  to  first  additional  anti-pseudomonal  treatment.  There  was  an 
advantage for TOBI in adolescents and a modest advantage for Colobreathe in adults.  
Table 12: 
Time  to  Acute  Exacerbation  and  Time  to  First  Additional  Anti-pseudomonal 
treatment, (ITT population) 
Change in FEV1 % predicted at Week 20 
The adjusted treatment difference for the change from baseline to Week 20 (Visit 5) was -1.40% (95% 
CI: -3.43%, 0.63%) in the ITT population (p=0.175) and -1.86% (95% CI:-4.19%, 0.46%) in the PP 
population (p=0.116). The treatment-by-pooled centre interaction was investigated but was found to 
be not statistically significant and was therefore not included in the model. 
The ANCOVA was repeated on logarithmically transformed data. In the ITT population, the adjusted 
mean difference between the Colobreathe and TOBI groups in the change in FEV1 % predicted at Week 
20 was -1.23% (95% CI: -3.03%, 0.64%). In the PP population, the adjusted mean difference 
between the Colobreathe and TOBI groups in the change in FEV1 % predicted at Week 20 was -1.44% 
(95% CI: -3.45%, 0.66%). Non-parametric analysis on the data was also performed and the 95% CI 
fell within -3%. 
Quality of life (CFQ-R) 
With respect to all CFQ-R domains and at nearly all time points the two treatments were similar. At 
Week 24/Exit, the QoL assessments were in favour of Colobreathe in the majority of CFQ-R domains in 
the ITT population.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 44/66
 
 
 
 
Table 13: 
Adjusted  mean  changes  in  quality  of  life  (CFQ-R)  from  baseline  to  Week 
24/Exit Visit (ITT population) 
In the ITT population, detectable differences were only observed for: 
 
The  change  in  treatment  burden  from  baseline  to  Week  4  (Visit  2)  with  Colobreathe  being  more 
favourable (adjusted difference: 6.27; 95% CI: 3.15, 9.40; p<0.001) 
 
The  change  in  body  image  from  baseline  to  Week  4  (Visit  2)  with  TOBI  being  more  favourable 
(adjusted difference: -4.08; 95% CI: -7.73, -0.44; p=0.028) 
 
The  change  in  digestion  from  baseline  to  last  recorded  result  with  Colobreathe  being  more 
favourable (adjusted difference: 3.67; 95% CI: 0.27, 7.07; p=0.034). 
In the PP population, detectable differences were only observed for: 
 
The  change  in  treatment  burden  from  baseline  to  Week  4  (Visit  2)  with  Colobreathe  being  more 
favourable (adjusted difference: 5.57; 95% CI: 2.07, 9.06; p=0.002) 
 
The  change  in  body  image  from  baseline  to  Week  4  (Visit  2)  with  TOBI  being  more  favourable 
(adjusted difference: -4.30; 95% CI: -8.55, -0.06; p=0.047). 
At Week 24/Exit, the QoL assessments for the paediatric subgroups (ITT population) were in favour of 
Colobreathe in the majority of CFQ-R domains but there were no statistically significant differences. 
After exclusion of the data from Ukraine, the ITT population showed changes from baseline to Week 
24/Exit Visit that were more positive in the Colobreathe group compared to the TOBI group for the 
majority of CFQ domains, especially for treatment burden, health perceptions, body image and 
digestion. The mean change from baseline to Week 4 in treatment burden (ITT: p<0.001 and PP: 
p=0.004) and health perception (ITT: p=0.047) and for the mean change from baseline to last 
recorded result in digestion (ITT: p=0.039) were statistically significantly higher with Colobreathe. 
Adherence to study medication 
In the ITT population, a similar proportion of patients in the Colobreathe and TOBI groups were ≥75% 
adherent to study medication (66.7% and 70.7%, respectively). In the PP population, rates for 
adherence ≥75% were slightly higher (68.8% and 72.0%).  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 45/66
 
 
 
 
Patient ease of use/preference assessment 
In the ITT population, 51.9% assessed Colobreathe as ‘very easy to use’ whereas only 9.9% assessed 
TOBI as ‘very easy to use’. In the Colobreathe and TOBI groups, 38.8% and 44.0% assessed the 
treatments as ‘easy to use’ while 2.2% vs. 31.9% assessed them as ‘neither easy nor hard to use’. 
There was a statistical difference (95% CI: 4.684, 15.274; p<0.001) in favour of Colobreathe. Overall 
43/183 patients (23.5%) randomised to Colobreathe preferred TOBI and 120/183 (65.6%) preferred 
Colobreathe. 
Of the 6-12 year old patients in the in the Colobreathe group, 25/31 (80.6%) preferred Colobreathe.   
Of the 13-17 year old patients in the in the Colobreathe group, 24/41 (58.5%) preferred Colobreathe. 
Investigator’s global assessment 
In the ITT population, a slight to marked improvement was reported by the investigators in 84/183 
patients (45.9%) in the Colobreathe group and 81/191 patients (42.4%) in the TOBI group. No change 
was reported for 32.8% and 41.4%, respectively, and a slight to marked worsening for 18.0% and 
12.0%, respectively. The differences between the two treatment groups did not reveal a trend. 
A slight to marked improvement was reported by the investigator in 26/31 (83.9%) 6-12 year old 
patients in the Colobreathe group and in 28/36 (77.8%) in the TOBI group. 
A slight to marked improvement was reported by the investigator in 21/41 (51.2%) 13-17 year old 
patients in the Colobreathe group and in 28/46 (60.9%) in the TOBI group. 
Antibacterial  susceptibility  of  respiratory  tract  P.  aeruginosa  isolates  (BSAC  breakpoints, 
2008) 
Based on the 2008 BSAC breakpoints for colistin (S ≤ 4 mg/L, R > 4 mg/L) and the use of E-tests the 
proportion of colistin-resistant isolates obtained during the 24-week treatment period was low (≤ 
1.1%) and did not increase based on patients still in the study at each time point. The findings also 
applied in the paediatric sub-populations and in each country. The percent resistant to tobramycin did 
not change substantially during the study. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 46/66
 
 
 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarises the efficacy result from the main study supporting the present 
application. This summary should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 14: 
Summary of Efficacy for trial COLO/DPI/02/06 
Title: A randomised, open label study to compare the efficacy and safety of a dry powder 
formulation of inhaled colistimethate sodium (Colobreathe) and nebulised tobramycin (TNSFI 
[tobramycin nebuliser solution for inhalation], TOBI™) in cystic fibrosis patients with Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa lung infection.  
Study identifier 
COLO/DPI/02/06 
Design 
Hypothesis 
A randomised, open label, multicentre study in subjects ≥ 6 years of age 
with documented cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic pulmonary infection with 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Subjects would normally be being treated with 
inhaled antibiotics, and should have an FEV1 (% predicted) value of 25 – 
75% and be inhaling TOBI™ (having had a minimum of two on/off cycles) 
prior to randomisation.  The study objective was to quantify any change in 
FEV 1 (% predicted) from baseline on entry to the study Visit 1 (Day 1) to 
Visit 6 (Week 24). 
Duration of main phase: 
24 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
At least 8 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase:  Not applicable 
Non-inferiority. The 95% two-sided confidence interval was computed for the 
difference of DPI colistin minus TOBI.  If the lower bound is no lower than -
3.0 percentage points for both the PP and ITT populations it will be concluded 
that the experimental drug, dry powder inhaler, is not inferior to the control.  
Treatments groups 
Colistimethate sodium dry 
powder inhaler 
Tobramycin nebuliser 
solution for inhalation 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
FEV 1 (% 
predicted) at 
week 24 
Emergence of 
resistance 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Quality of life 
One capsule containing 1,662,500 IU 
(125mg) colistimethate sodium dry powder 
inhaled twice daily for 24 weeks using the 
Turbospin™ device(n=187) 
One ampoule of 5ml containing 300mg 
tobramycin inhaled via a PARI-LC Plus™ 
nebuliser twice daily for 24 weeks.  
Administered as cycles of  4 weeks of 
treatment followed by 4 weeks of no 
treatment (n=193) 
To quantify any change in FEV1 (% predicted) 
by comparison to baseline at Visit 6 (Week 
24). 
To quantify changes in resistance of 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates to 
colistimethate and tobramycin as measured 
by in vitro MIC at the beginning and end of 
the study. 
To compare the quality of life on each 
treatment regimen as measured by responses 
to the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire – Revised 
(CFQ-R)   
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 47/66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Other 
Database lock 
2nd November 2007 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Additional secondary endpoints to provide 
supportive evidence by further characterising 
treatment effects included: 
1)  Time to first acute respiratory 
exacerbation and time to first use of 
additional anti-pseudomonal 
intravenous or oral antibiotics 
intended for the management of 
acute respiratory exacerbation 
2)  Other pulmonary function tests to 
include FVC, PEFR, FEV 1 and FEF25-75 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Intent to treat, FEV1 % predicted at week 24, logarithmically transformed  
Treatment group  Dry powder  
colistimethate 
twice daily 
Nebulised 
tobramycin 
twice daily 
183 
0.964 
190 
 0.986 
Number of 
subjects 
Ratio to baseline 
in FEV1 % 
predicted at 
week 24 (mean) 
all patients using 
LOCF 
Treatment 
Comparison 
Dry powder 
colistimethate 
vs. Nebulised 
tobramycin  
95% CI for 
treatment ratio 
0.943, 1.018 
95% CI for 
treatment 
difference (back 
transformed) 
-2.74, 0.86 
Standard 
deviation of logs 
0.1994 
0.1898 
Per Protocol, FEV1 % predicted at week 24, logarithmically transformed  
Treatment group  Dry powder  
colistimethate 
twice daily  
Nebulised 
tobramycin 
twice daily 
141 
0.974 
157 
 0.997 
Number of 
subjects 
Ratio to baseline 
in FEV1 % 
predicted at 
week 24 (mean) 
all patients using 
LOCF 
Standard 
deviation of logs 
0.2040 
0.1957 
Treatment 
Comparison 
Dry powder 
colistimethate 
vs. Nebulised 
tobramycin 
95% CI for 
treatment ratio 
0.935, 1.020 
95% CI for 
treatment 
difference (back 
transformed) 
-3.07, 0.96 
Page 48/66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
Analysis of variance on logarithmically transformed data with covariates of 
baseline FEV1 % predicted and pooled centre 
Supportive study 
  COLO/DPI/02/05  -  Randomised,  open  label  cross-over  study  to  compare  the  safety  of  a  dry 
powder formulation of inhaled colistimethate sodium in CF patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
lung infection.  
This was a Phase 2 study in which the primary objective was an assessment of safety. However, 
efficacy data are reported. 
This randomised, open label cross-over study in patients aged eight years and over with documented 
CF who would normally be treated with inhaled antibacterial agents provides a short-term comparison 
of nebulised and dry powder inhalation of colistimethate sodium. The study was conducted in 2003-
2005 at three centres in the UK and enrolled 16 patients (8 aged < 14 and 8 > 14 years).  
Patients were to have stable lung function, a history of prior treatment with nebulised colistimethate 
sodium without showing intolerance or requiring cessation of therapy and FEV1 at least 25% of 
predicted value. There were two active antibacterial treatment periods of four weeks each, with a 
wash-out period of 72 h from any anti-pseudomonal therapy (and 28 days off TOBI before study entry) 
at the beginning and between treatment periods. At randomisation patients were stratified by age to 
receive either Colobreathe (1) or nebulised treatment (2) first.   
No relevant changes in FEV1% predicted and FVC were seen from the baseline to end of the respective 
treatment period. Additionally, statistical testing (paired t-test) showed no significant differences in 
changes in FEV1% predicted between the two treatments. FEV1% predicted tended to be higher in 
those < 14 years vs. > 14 years but within each age stratum no clear differences were seen between 
the dry powder and the nebulised treatments. There were also no consistent differences in FVC 
between the two treatments in either age stratum. The results for the per protocol and safety sets 
were comparable. 
All patients with values who received the dry powder first and then the nebulised treatment rated the 
latter as much harder (62.5%) or a little harder (25%) to use than the former treatment. In line with 
this finding, all patients with values who received the nebulised treatment first and then the dry 
powder rated the latter as much easier (62.5% of patients) or a little easier (25%) to use than the first 
treatment (i.e. nebulised). Patients aged < 14 years were more likely to report better ease of use for 
dry powder (75% rated dry powder as much easier to use in the safety set and 100% in the per 
protocol set) than patients aged > 14 years (50% rated dry powder as much easier to use in the safety 
set and 66.7% in the per protocol set).  
When adolescents and adults completed the CFQ the scores remained about the same or decreased 
from Visit 1 to end of treatment in both treatment groups for most of the domains. A clear increase 
was only seen for the total treatment score in the dry powder group. When the parents/caregivers 
completed the CFQ for children a clear increase in mean scores from Visit 1 was seen during treatment 
with dry powder for the total body score, the total treatment score, the total school score and the total 
digestion score. With the exception of the total school score where the reverse was the case these 
increases were greater during dry powder treatment. A pronounced decrease from Visit 1 to end of 
treatment was seen for the total weight score during both treatments with the decrease being greater 
on dry powder. For the remaining scores, no major changes were seen.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 49/66
 
 
 
 
2.5.3  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
COLO/DPI/02/06 
Design and conduct of clinical study 
The study planned that if the lower bound of the 95% CI around the treatment difference in change in 
FEV1% predicted at week 24 was within -3% for both the PP and ITT populations, it was to be 
concluded that Colobreathe was non-inferior to TOBI. This non-inferiority margin was based on the 
pooled results of two placebo-controlled nebulised tobramycin studies conducted during the 1990s. The 
published analysis showed that at week 24 the relative change from baseline was by about +8% for 
TOBI and -2% for placebo. At week 20 the TOBI group had a 10% relative increase in FEV1% 
predicted compared to -2% in the placebo group.  
Since the baseline mean FEV1% predicted was almost exactly 50% in both treatment groups these 
data equated with approximately 6 and 5 percentage point differences in actual FEV1% predicted mean 
values at weeks 20 and 24, respectively. Thus, CHMP had considered that a non-inferiority margin not 
in excess of -2.5% could be supported at week 24 for COLO/DPI/02/06. The changes in treatment of 
CF and in FEV1% values since the 1990s add to the difficulties raised by possible lack of constancy but 
there are no other suitable data to assist in defining an appropriate non-inferiority margin from past 
studies.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The applicant pre-defined a 3% non-inferiority margin at least partly on grounds that this would be a 
clinically acceptable difference. In the pre-planned primary analysis the lower bound of the 95% CI 
was -2.59% for patients who completed the study in the ITT population but for the ITT LOCF and both 
the PP analyses the lower bound of the 95% CI exceeded -3%. The corresponding analyses using 
logarithmic transformation of the data gave lower 95% CI from -2.20 to -3.08 and the non-parametric 
analyses gave lower 95% CI from -1.43 to -2.49.  
There are several other observations that need to be taken into account when considering these overall 
comparisons. For example, at week 24 subjects in the comparative group had been off treatment for 4 
weeks and therefore might represent a time point at which a comparison could potentially bias 
Colobreathe. The comparison of data at week 20 indicated that the lower bound of the 95% CI 
exceeded -3.5%. As described above, there were clear differences according to age groups with 
suggestions of an advantage for Colobreathe in those aged 6-12 years, a disadvantage in the 
adolescents aged 13-18 years and very comparable results in the adults. Most of the children aged 6-
12 years had been enrolled at Ukraine sites, where the benefit of Colobreathe was anyway seemingly 
larger and this could be driving these observations.  
The conclusion was that Colobreathe is probably not quite as good as TOBI across pooled age groups 
but still within a range that would exclude significant clinical differences. In addition, there was a clear 
patient preference for Colobreathe.  Quality of life assessment supported the use of Colobreathe and 
“Time to exacerbation” also tended to favour Colobreathe.  After resolution of all the questions, 
including the provision of several additional analyses to provide reassurance regarding the robustness 
of the single pivotal study, it was concluded that making available an alternative dry powder inhalation 
that requires only two inhalations per day could be regarded as an advantage to patients in terms of 
convenience and likely without clinical significant disadvantage in terms of lung function.. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 50/66
 
 
 
 
COLO/DPI/02/05 
Regardless of the sequence in which they used dry powder and nebulised colistin, most patients with 
values found the dry powder easier to use. The tendency for a better ease of use assessment for dry 
powder than nebulised treatment was more pronounced in children than in adults. Changes in FEV1% 
predicted  appeared  to  be  slightly  better  with  nebulisation,  but  there  was  no  significant  difference 
between treatments. 
2.5.4  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Based on all the lung function data the overall picture pointed to a conclusion that Colobreathe may be 
slightly less optimal than TOBI . However, the fact remains that most differences vs. TOBI were 
actually quite small (within an acceptable range) whilst there were also some clear advantages noted 
for Colobreathe in sub-populations. These observations were weighed against patient opinions 
regarding ease of use and quality of life data that favoured Colobreathe. 
2.6  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Exposure ranged from single doses to 24 weeks treatment with Colobreathe. 
Adverse events  
In COLO/DPI/98/01 the 12 healthy subjects reported 60 AEs, all of which were of mild intensity. 
Cough, throat irritation and unpleasant taste were all more common after dry powder inhalations than 
after nebulised colistimethate sodium. There was no appreciable difference with salbutamol pre-
treatment except for nausea and dizziness, which may have been due to use of the beta-agonist by 
subjects not accustomed to these agents. Similarly, in PPL-252 nine of the 10 subjects reported AEs. 
These were mainly cough, unpleasant taste and throat irritation. Three subjects also reported 
wheezing. Most were of mild intensity. In COLO/DPI/98/02 14 AEs were reported by the 12 subjects 
with CF, all of which were of mild intensity. There was no excess of AEs during dry powder inhalations, 
with or without salbutamol pre-treatment, compared to nebulised colistin.  
In COLO/DPI/02/05 the safety assessments included spontaneously reported AEs and solicited 
symptoms. All except one patient reported solicited symptoms in the dry powder phase compared to 
one third in the nebulised colistin phase. The difference was mostly accounted for by reports of 
unpleasant taste, throat irritation and new cough/increase in cough. There were no major differences 
in reporting between the adults and the children. The majority of AEs were of mild or moderate 
intensity. Severe AES were reported by six patients in the dry powder phase and one in the nebulised 
phase.  
COLO/DPI/02/06 
The overall comparison between treatment groups is shown in the table. In interpreting these figures it 
must  be  remembered  that  all  subjects  had  already  been  exposed  to  the  comparative  treatment 
whether pre-study or in the run-in phase.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 51/66
 
 
 
 
Table 15: 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Summary (Safety population) 
The most common AEs by system organ class were respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders 
(occurring in 89.8% of Colobreathe patients and 78.2% of TOBI patients) and the most common 
individual AEs in this SOC are shown in the table below. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 52/66
 
 
 
 
Table 16: 
Adverse events by system organ class and preferred term (Safety population) 
Gastrointestinal disorders were reported in 65.2% Colobreathe and 38.9% TOBI patients. For other 
SOCs the total frequencies of reporting were comparable between treatment groups. Individual AEs 
that were reported with a considerably higher incidence in the Colobreathe group compared to the 
TOBI group included cough (75.4% vs. 43.5%), throat irritation (45.5% vs. 28.0%), haemoptysis 
(10.7% vs. 6.7%) and dysgeusia (62.6% vs. 27.5%). 
Between 0 and 28 days cough was reported by 58% of patients in the Colobreathe group and 20% in 
the TOBI group who were still on study. These reporting rates had decreased to 10% and 8% of 
patients in respective groups for those still in the study after 20 weeks. The nearly 8-fold drop in 
reporting cough cannot be explained by the numbers who had discontinued due to cough or other 
respiratory AEs and likely represents habituation of patients to the new treatment.   
Relevant to these data patients completed a symptom questionnaire. This showed that at baseline 
(Visit 1) symptoms reported to be associated with drug inhalation included unpleasant taste (48.1% of 
Colobreathe patients and 13.5% in the TOBI group), throat irritation (21.4% and 8.3%) and new 
cough/increase in cough (36.4% and 7.8%). By the time of the Week 24/Exit Visit (Visit 6) the 
proportions that assessed drug inhalation to be associated with their symptoms had decreased so that 
unpleasant taste was reported by 34.2% of Colobreathe patients and 5.7% of TOBI patients, throat 
irritation was reported by 12.8% and 5.2% and new cough/increase in cough by 24.6% and 3.6%. 
However, there was a slight increase from baseline to Week 24/Exit Visit in the proportion of 
Colobreathe patients who experienced severe unpleasant taste (from 4.3% to 7.0%). 
There were 20 patients treated with Colobreathe who had haemoptysis reported as a TEAE. 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 53/66
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: 
Safety Population Haemoptysis Reports 
A prior history of haemoptysis did not correlate with clinically significant differences in severities or 
durations of the haemoptysis episodes that occurred while on treatment with Colobreathe. Two of the 
four with a medical history of haemoptysis reported it as ongoing throughout treatment as did three 
without a prior medical history. Most episodes of haemoptysis lasted for 6 days or less and the 
maximum duration of those instances that did resolve during study was 36 days. Most patients only 
experienced one episode of haemoptysis and no episodes resulted in withdrawal from treatment. Co-
administered inhaled products which have been associated with reports of haemoptysis include 
dornase alpha and hypertonic saline. In the Colobreathe group 14/20 with haemoptysis on treatment 
received one or both of these treatments.    
AEs of moderate or severe intensity were reported in a higher percentage of Colobreathe patients 
compared to TOBI patients. In addition, drug-related AEs were reported more often in the Colobreathe 
group. Overall 21.9% of patients in the Colobreathe group and 3.1% in the TOBI group had at least 
one severe AE considered to be drug-related. This difference between groups reflected rates of 
respiratory AEs (16% vs. 2.1% of patients) and mainly cough (in 11.8% and 2.1% in respective 
groups). Severe, drug-related gastrointestinal disorders occurred in 10.2% of Colobreathe patients and 
1.6% of TOBI patients but these rates were due to dysgeusia. Similar patterns were observed for AEs 
of moderate severity that were considered drug-related (overall in 43.3% Colobreathe and 20.2% 
TOBI patients) and mild severity considered drug-related (69.5% and 42% of patients in respective 
groups). 
Adverse reactions (possibly, probably or definitely related or with an unknown relationship to study 
medication) are summarised in the table below, which expresses rates in terms of percentages of 
patients reporting an ADR. Cough, unpleasant taste and throat irritation were the most commonly 
reported ADRs in both treatment groups but were reported more often with Colobreathe. There was no 
clear trend for these ADRs to increase in frequency with increasing age although adults had the highest 
rates in each treatment group for many of the AEs listed. Despite this, adults very commonly 
considered these ADRs to be of mild intensity. The data did not suggest consistent trends for age-
related reporting of AEs or ADRs. The types of AEs reported most often in children resembled those 
reported in adults and rates were often slightly lower in children compared to older subjects.  
In order to put the findings into perspective, the applicant pointed out that an increased risk of local 
irritation from inhalation of a dry powder compared to a nebulised mist was reported in studies that 
compared these modes of administration for tobramycin. For example, Geller et al (2007) compared 
tobramycin dry powder (TIP) vs. TOBI. More TIP subjects experienced at least one AE (69% after 112 
mg) compared to TOBI (30%). The most common AEs after TIP were cough (13/66 subjects, 20%) 
and dysgeusia (11/66 subjects, 17%), which were not reported after TOBI but 85% had previously 
been treated with TOBI. Konstan et al (2011) published results from the EAGER study that compared 
24 weeks TOBI with 128 mg TIP given over three on/off cycles in 553 patients. Cough was reported for 
48.4% TIP and 31.1% TOBI patients and drug-related cough for 25.3% vs. 4.3%. Approximately 4% 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 54/66
 
 
 
 
 
TIP patients discontinued due to cough vs. 1% (2/209) of TOBI patients. Other AEs more commonly 
reported for TIP were dysphonia (13.6% vs. 3.8%) and dysgeusia (3.9% vs. 0.5%). The highest 
reporting rates occurred in the first cycle. 
Table 18: 
Adverse reactions by age group as % of patients reporting an event 
(COLO/DPI/02/06) 
Hypersensitivity reactions were recorded in a small number of patients in each treatment group. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In COLO/DPI/02/06 two TOBI patients had respiratory tract infections leading to death.  
Rates of SAEs were not different between treatment groups, were mixed in nature and were not 
clustered by type or treatment. Of the five SAEs considered to be drug-related by investigators, the 
three in the Colobreathe group involved a convulsion, asthma and haemoptysis while the two in the 
TOBI group were both cases of haemoptysis. The Colobreathe patient with a convulsion had a past 
history of petit mal seizures. The Colobreathe patient with asthma was 14 years old with no history of 
asthma but had an acute attack requiring hospitalisation on Day 57 of study and 7 hours after the last 
dose. A patch test performed post-recovery gave a positive result. The patient with haemoptysis at 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 55/66
 
 
 
 
about one month into treatment was 18 years old and had haemoptysis three years earlier. He also 
had bronchiectasis and pancreatic insufficiency. 
Laboratory findings 
COLO/DPI/02/06 
Laboratory abnormalities reported as AEs (there were no laboratory SAEs) in the Colobreathe group 
included increased neutrophil count (n=3 patients), hyperglycaemia (3), increased ALT (2), increased 
WBC count (2), proteinuria (2), increased hepatic enzymes (1), increased platelet count (1) and blood 
in urine (1). One AE of proteinuria was assessed as possibly related to study drug by the investigator. 
There were no notable mean or median changes from baseline to Week 24 in any haematology, 
biochemistry or urinalysis parameter and no notable differences between the two treatment groups 
with respect to mean or median laboratory values or shifts from baseline. Clinically significant values 
were reported in relatively small numbers and there did not seem to be any notable difference between 
treatment groups in numbers with these various types of events. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In COLO/DPI/02/05 AEs leading to withdrawal were reported for two patients during treatment with 
dry powder. Both had completed nebulised treatment in the first treatment period. These involved: 
  A 19-year old female with chest discomfort, severe cough, moderate dyspnoea, severe wheezing, 
unpleasant taste and throat irritation after the first intake of dry powder. No therapy was given and 
the events resolved. These AEs were considered definitely related to study medication. 
  A 9-year old male with moderate cough and severe gastrointestinal disorder after the first intake of 
dry  powder,  assessed  as  definitely  related  to  study  medication.  No  treatment  was  given  and  the 
events resolved.  
COLO/DPI/02/06 
Of the 27 patients (7.1%) withdrawn from the study due to an AE 22 were in the Colobreathe group 
and 21 were withdrawn due to one or more respiratory AEs including cough, dyspnoea, haemoptysis 
and asthma. The timing of withdrawals was as shown below. 
Table 19: 
Number of withdrawals by time band (related adverse events, lack of efficacy 
and other reasons) (Taken from Appendix 1, Listing A) 
Three adults withdrew on days 1- 3, including two due to bronchospasm and one due to abnormal 
chest sounds, all regarded as probably related and moderate in severity. Up to day 28 a further 7 
adults (one was 17 years old) patients withdrew including five due to reasons such as cough, 
dyspnoea, wheezing and decrease in FEV1 but none appeared to have suffered exacerbations. One 
withdrew due to haemoptysis and one due to convulsion. In the second 4 week period a further 6 
Colobreathe patients (all adults) withdrew for reasons including severe decrease in FEV1, lower 
respiratory tract infection, asthma, cough with recorded respiratory exacerbation, dyspnoea and cough 
and haemoptysis. Between days 56 and 84 a child with severe asthma and dyspnoea, an adult with 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 56/66
 
 
 
 
wheezing being treated with oral antibiotics and an adult with mild dyspnoea on anti-allergy treatment 
withdrew. In the remaining 12 weeks only 4 patients withdrew.  
Thus, 21/22 patients who withdrew from Colobreathe had symptoms that would be associated with 
pulmonary exacerbation, intolerance to Colobreathe or other manifestations of cystic fibrosis. Only two 
of these patients were under 18 years even though patients aged < 18 years accounted for half the 
study population. The rate of withdrawal decreased over time and 16/22 occurred during the first 2 
months.  
Post marketing experience 
There are no post-marketing data on the dry powder. There are many years experience on use of 
nebulised colistimethate sodium. The applicant provided a satisfactory review of the safety information 
related to nebulised colistimethate, which suggested that most of the problems that will arise with the 
DPI will likely be related to immediate or early airways reactivity that should be manageable in the 
same way that reactions to nebulisation are managed. 
2.6.1  Discussion on clinical safety 
Cough,  throat  irritation  and  unpleasant  taste  were  reported  more  commonly  with  Colobreathe 
compared to nebulised colistimethate sodium or TOBI. There were more withdrawals from Colobreathe 
than  from  TOBI  due  to  AEs,  almost  all  which  involved  cough,  dyspnoea,  haemoptysis,  wheezing  or 
asthma.  However,  all  patients  in  the  Phase  2  study  had  previously  received  nebulised  colistimethate 
while  all  patients  in  the  Phase  3  study  had  previously  received  TOBI.  Therefore  the  patients  were 
already  pre-selected  to  a  considerable  extent  such  that  they  were  very  likely  to  tolerate  nebulised 
treatments. 
It  appears  that  the  majority  of  the  problems  that  can  be  expected  on  initiating  Colobreathe  may  be 
associated with DPI rather than the active substance per se. Based on published experience with DPI 
tobramycin, the picture observed with Colobreathe is not dissimilar. It also appears that the numbers 
that will withdraw from treatment will decrease over time. This does not necessarily mean that the side 
effects  disappear  but  more  likely  reflects  early  discontinuation  by  those  with  severe  side  effects  and 
increasing tolerance of less severe symptoms. 
The  analyses  of  AEs  and  ADRs  by  age  suggest  that  the  same  range  of  side  effects  occurs  with  no 
marked differences in rates but the severity scoring is more variable. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
2.6.2  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  Colobreathe  is  acceptable.  It  is  likely  that  a  similar  profile  would  be 
observed  when  commencing  inhalational  therapy  and  also  when  switching  from  nebulised  to  dry 
powder inhalation antibacterial treatment.  
2.7  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 57/66
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table 20: 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern  
(Identified risks)  
Cough, including 
coughing out drug 
substance  
Agreed pharmacovigilance  
activities (routine and 
additional)  
Agreed risk minimisation  
activities (routine and additional)  
o  Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC 
recommend that these symptoms may be 
ameliorated with appropriate pre-
treatment with a bronchodilator (beta2-
agonist) prior to inhalation. 
o  Educational material: Preparation of an 
educational DVD for use by healthcare 
professionals and patients which will 
describe clearly the technique for use of 
the device and provide reassurance with 
respect to continued use. The complete 
content of the DVD is currently under 
consideration and will be finalised prior to 
launch of the product in the EU  
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance  
o  A study to evaluate systemic 
exposure following inhalation 
of Colobreathe is planned to 
be conducted shortly:  
This study will include the 
determination of sputum drug 
levels and therefore the analysis 
of these data will be able to 
correlate the emergence of cough 
with drug levels. This should 
provide definitive reassurance that 
coughing out drug substance has 
no effect on efficacy.  
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of cough will be closely 
monitored in a post approval 
study as well as post-marketing 
surveillance, and will be the 
subject of special review in future 
PSURs  
Dysgeusia  
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance  
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
None  
Study:   
Reports of dysgeusia will be 
closely monitored in a post 
approval study as well as post-
marketing surveillance, and will be 
the subject of special review in 
future PSURs  
Dyspnoea  
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance  
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
None  
Study: 
Reports of dyspnoea will be 
closely monitored in a post 
approval study as well as post-
marketing surveillance, and will be 
the subject of special review in 
future PSURs 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of bronchospasm will be 
closely monitored in a post 
approval study as well as post-
marketing surveillance, and will be 
the subject of special review in 
future PSURs 
None 
Bronchospasm 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 58/66
  
 
 
 
Exacerbation of 
Myasthenia 
Gravis 
Off-label use 
Oropharyngeal 
infection with 
candida albicans 
or other yeast like 
organisms 
Accidental 
inhalation of 
gelatin capsule 
particles 
Accidental 
Ingestion of 
whole gelatin 
capsule 
Increased 
Sensitisation to 
colistimethate 
due to inhaled 
route of 
administration 
Nephrotoxicity 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance  
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
None 
Study:   
Reports of exacerbation of 
myasthenia gravis will be closely 
monitored in a post approval 
study as well as post-marketing 
surveillance, and will be the 
subject of special review in future 
PSURs 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance 
o  Reports of off label use will be 
closely monitored via the 
post-marketing 
pharmacovigilance systems, 
and will be reviewed 
independently in future 
PSURs. 
None 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
None 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of oropharyngeal infection 
will be monitored by review of 
adverse events reported during 
post-marketing surveillance,   
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review 
in future PSURs  
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of accidental inhalation 
will be monitored by review of 
adverse events reported during 
post-marketing surveillance. 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of accidental inhalation 
will be monitored by review of 
adverse events reported during 
post-marketing surveillance. 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:  
Reports of increased sensitisation 
to colistimethate will be monitored 
by review of adverse events 
reported during post-marketing 
surveillance. 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:   
Reports of nephrotoxicity will be 
monitored by review of adverse 
events reported during post-
o  Educational material: Preparation of an 
educational DVD for use by healthcare 
professionals and patients which will 
describe clearly the technique for use of 
the device and provide reassurance with 
respect to continued use. The complete 
content of the DVD is currently under 
consideration and will be finalised prior to 
launch of the product in the EU 
o  Educational material: Preparation of an 
educational DVD for use by healthcare 
professionals and patients which will 
describe clearly the technique for use of 
the device and provide reassurance with 
respect to continued use. The complete 
content of the DVD is currently under 
consideration and will be finalised prior to 
launch of the product in the EU 
o  Section 4.3 of the SmPC specifically 
contraindicates use in patients with 
hypersensitivity to colistimethate sodium, 
colistin sulphate or polymyxin B. This is 
also fully reflected in the Patient 
Information Leaflet 
None 
Page 59/66
 
 
 
marketing surveillance, 
Hepatotoxicity 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
None 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:  
Reports of hepatotoxicity will be 
monitored by review of adverse 
events reported during post-
marketing surveillance, 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study: 
Reports of neurotoxicity will be 
monitored by review of adverse 
events reported during post-
marketing surveillance, 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:  
Reports of medication errors will 
be closely monitored in a post 
approval study as well as post-
marketing surveillance, and will be 
the subject of special review in 
future PSURs 
Neurotoxicity 
Potential for 
medication errors 
due to 
inappropriate 
handling of the 
inhalation device 
None 
o  The patient information leaflet (PIL) 
contains clear instruction as to how to 
administer Colobreathe. The possibility of 
underdosing as a result of incorrect 
puncturing of the capsule can be 
addressed by checking the capsule has 
been fully emptied following inhalation. 
This instruction is included in the PIL.  
o  Educational material: Preparation of an 
educational DVD for use by healthcare 
professionals and patients which will 
describe clearly the technique for use of 
the device and provide reassurance with 
respect to continued use. The complete 
content of the DVD is currently under 
consideration and will be finalised prior to 
launch of the product in the EU 
Foetal Harm 
o  Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
o  The SmPC Section 4.6 Pregnancy and 
including independent review 
in future PSURs 
o  Post Marketing Surveillance 
Study:  
Reports of foetal harm will be 
monitored by review of adverse 
events reported during post-
marketing surveillance, 
lactation states:  
…‘ Pregnancy  
There are no adequate data from the use of 
inhaled colistimethate sodium in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals using parenteral 
administration have shown reproductive 
toxicity (see section 5.3). Single dose 
intravenous studies in human pregnancy show 
that colistimethate sodium crosses the 
placenta and consequently there is potential 
for foetal toxicity if administered during 
pregnancy. Colistimethate sodium should be 
used in pregnancy only if the benefit to the 
mother outweighs the potential risk to the 
foetus.  
This is also fully reflected in the Patient 
Information Leaflet  
Page 60/66
(Missing Information) 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
  
  
 
 
 
Pregnant or 
lactating women 
Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review in 
future PSURs 
Routine Pharmacovigilance, 
including independent review in 
future PSURs 
Pharmacokinetic 
and 
pharmacodynamic 
interactions with 
co-medications 
other than 
aminoglycosides 
Systemic 
exposure data in 
children after 
inhalation of 
Colobreathe 
Metabolism/ 
Mechanism of 
inactivation in the 
tissues 
A systemic absorption study in 
cystic fibrosis patients including 
children is planned to address this 
issue. The protocol for this study 
is summarised in section 2.4 of 
this RMP for reference purposes 
A study of the effect of 
colistimethate on hepatocytes is 
planned to investigate inhibition or 
enhancement of metabolism by 
colistimethate 
o  The SmPC Section 4.6 Pregnancy and 
lactation states:  
…‘ Pregnancy  
As above. 
Breastfeeding  
Absorbed colistimethate sodium may be 
secreted in breast milk. A decision on whether 
to continue/discontinue breastfeeding or to 
continue/discontinue therapy with 
COLOBREATHE should be made taking into 
account the benefit of breastfeeding to the 
child balanced against the benefit of 
COLOBREATHE therapy to the woman.  
 This is also fully reflected in the Patient 
Information Leaflet 
o  The SmPC Section 4.5 on interactions 
states:  
 There is no experience of using 
COLOBREATHE concurrently with other 
inhaled antibiotics.  
Due to the effects of colistimethate sodium on 
the release of acetylcholine, non-depolarising 
muscle relaxants should be used with extreme 
caution in patients receiving COLOBREATHE as 
their effects could be prolonged. Concomitant 
use of inhaled colistimethate sodium with 
other medicinal products that are nephrotoxic 
or neurotoxic (e.g. cephalothin sodium, 
aminoglycosides, non-depolarising muscle 
relaxants) including those which are 
administered by the intravenous or 
intramuscular routes should be undertaken 
with care. 
None 
None 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns: 
Description 
Systemic absorption study in cystic fibrosis patients 
Postmarketing surveillance study: 
Due date 
Final report 
should be 
available 
before end 
March 2012 
Study to 
Open-label, observational, registry based surveillance study comparing the long 
commence Q3 
term safety of 2 years’ treatment with Colobreathe 125mg with the same of 
2012. Final 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 61/66
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
nebulised Colomycin 
Early colonisation study: 
Due date 
report by Q4 
2015 
Study to 
commence Q3 
Multicentre, multiple dose, single-blind parallel group study of the efficacy and 
2012. Final 
safety of Colistimethate dry powder for inhalation in the treatment of early 
report by Q4 
infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa in paediatric patients with cystic fibrosis 
2016 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the format and content of the healthcare professional 
and patient educational pack with the National Competent Authority prior to launch in the Member 
State.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe or 
use Colobreathe are provided with a healthcare professional and patient educational pack containing 
the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
The Patient Information Leaflet 
The “Physician DVD” 
The “Patient DVD” 
“Physician DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those physicians who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
 
“Patient DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those patients who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
The Physician and patient “DVDs/leaflet forms” should contain the following key elements and 
messages: 
Introduction to the product: provide information on the contents of the box ie that 28 days 
treatment is 56 capsules and 1 device. Explain that the device should be discarded after 28 days. 
Explanation of the Turbospin and how it works. 
Information on the need to comply with the treatment in order to maximise the potential benefits. 
Explanation that using inhaled antibiotics can reduce the need for intravenous antibiotics. 
 
 
  Detailed instructions about how to use the medication: starting from unpacking of the product and 
finishing with disposal of the used capsule and device. Some detail about cleaning the Turbospin 
device. 
  Discussion about common side effects and in particular cough and taste abnormality: Explanation 
that: 
  These are only of nuisance value for most patients 
  Emphasise that patients should persist with the treatment. 
 
that cough decreases with repeated use of the product and should stabilize after the first 
month or so.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 62/66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Since  a  dramatic  change  in  FEV1  would  not  be  expected  in  such  a  patient  population,  the  modest 
improvement  in  FEV1  achieved  by  Colobreathe  when  administered  twice  daily  over  24  weeks  to 
subjects already established on TOBI with no evidence of acute exacerbation at baseline, is considered 
a sufficient demonstration of efficacy. Overall, the fact that Colobreathe failed to meet the pre-defined 
criterion for non-inferiority vs. TOBI is not considered critical in light of the overall amount of evidence 
provided.  In terms of respiratory function, the data show that the differences with TOBI were mostly 
quite  small.  There  were  some  advantages  noted  for  Colobreathe  in  sub-group  analyses.  Secondary 
outcome  measures  such  as  the  time  to  acute  respiratory  exacerbations  and  mean  time  to  first 
additional  anti-pseudomonal  treatment  tended  to  favour  Colobreathe.    Also,  patients  generally 
preferred the dry powder inhalations instead of nebulisations. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The critical questions are whether subjects satisfactorily maintained on TOBI have a clinically important 
deterioration in FEV1% if they switch to Colobreathe and whether adequate efficacy could be expected 
if  Colobreathe  was  used  instead  of  TOBI  from  the  outset  in  subjects  in  need  of  chronic  anti-
pseudomonal  therapy.  Regarding  the  first  issue  the  available  data  suggest  that  if  there  is  a 
deterioration  in  FEV1%  it  is  likely  modest.  Since  these  types  of  patients  are  usually  closely  followed 
and  also  would  report  back  to  their  management  centres  if  there  were  untoward  symptoms  any 
deterioration  of  significance  could  be  expected  to  come  to  light  and  be  dealt  with  quite  quickly. 
Regarding  the  second  issue,  there  are  no  data  to  answer  this  question.  However,  it  does  seem  that 
Ukrainian patients who had received only a short pre-study run-in with TOBI experienced a benefit on 
commencing Colobreathe.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The  rate  of  serious  adverse  events  were  not  different  between  treatment  groups.    However, 
Colobreathe  was  associated  with  higher  rates  of  AEs  vs.  nebulised  comparators.    Patients  were 
exposed to a dry powder inhalation for the first time and the available evidence suggests that much of 
the difference was due to the novel effects of dry powder inhalations rather than Colobreathe per se or 
the active substance. The comparisons are biased against Colobreathe since patients had already been 
exposed to the comparative treatments and were therefore to some extent pre-selected to be tolerant. 
Rates of withdrawal decreased considerably after weeks 1-8.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 63/66
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
While it seems unlikely that rates of AEs attributable to Colobreathe would increase during longer-term 
use there are currently no data on usage beyond 24 weeks of twice daily inhalations.  
Benefit Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
It is concluded that Colobreathe showed adequate efficacy in the sought indication. The safety data, 
when viewed in the light of the biases introduced by patient treatment histories are considered 
acceptable. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The risk-benefit relationship for Colobreathe is considered to be favourable in the intended indication. 
4  Recommendations 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Colobreathe is not similar to Cayston and Tobi Podhaler 
within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. See appendix 1. 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Colobreathe in the management of chronic pulmonary infections due to 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 6 years and older (see See Section 
5.1) is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to 
the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation 
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 64/66
 
 
 
 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the format and content of the healthcare professional 
and patient educational pack with the National Competent Authority prior to launch in the Member 
State.  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe or 
use Colobreathe are provided with a healthcare professional and patient educational pack containing 
the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
The Patient Information Leaflet 
The “Physician DVD” 
The “Patient DVD” 
“Physician DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those physicians who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
 
“Patient DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those patients who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
The Physician and patient “DVDs/leaflet forms” should contain the following key elements and 
messages: 
 
Introduction to the product: provide information on the contents of the box ie that 28 days 
treatment is 56 capsules and 1 device. Explain that the device should be discarded after 28 days. 
Explanation of the Turbospin and how it works. 
 
Information on the need to comply with the treatment in order to maximise the potential benefits. 
Explanation that using inhaled antibiotics can reduce the need for intravenous antibiotics. 
  Detailed instructions about how to use the medication: starting from unpacking of the product and 
finishing with disposal of the used capsule and device. Some detail about cleaning the Turbospin 
device. 
  Discussion about common side effects and in particular cough and taste abnormality: Explanation 
that: 
  These are only of nuisance value for most patients 
  Emphasise that patients should persist with the treatment. 
 
that cough decreases with repeated use of the product and should stabilize after the first 
month or so.  
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable 
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 65/66
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States 
The Member States shall agree the final healthcare professional and patient educational pack with the 
Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH) prior to launch of the product in their territory. 
The Member States shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe or use Colobreathe 
are provided with a healthcare professional and patient educational pack containing the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
The Patient Information Leaflet 
The “Physician DVD” 
The “Patient DVD” 
“Physician DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those physicians who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
 
“Patient DVD” information in “leaflet form” for those patients who do not have access to a DVD 
player 
The Physician and patient “DVDs/leaflet forms” should contain the following key elements and 
messages: 
 
Introduction to the product: provide information on the contents of the box ie that 28 days 
treatment is 56 capsules and 1 device. Explain that the device should be discarded after 28 days. 
Explanation of the Turbospin and how it works. 
 
Information on the need to comply with the treatment in order to maximise the potential benefits. 
Explanation that using inhaled antibiotics can reduce the need for intravenous antibiotics. 
  Detailed instructions about how to use the medication: starting from unpacking of the product and 
finishing with disposal of the used capsule and device. Some detail about cleaning the Turbospin 
device. 
  Discussion about common side effects and in particular cough and taste abnormality: Explanation 
that: 
  These are only of nuisance value for most patients 
  Emphasise that patients should persist with the treatment. 
 
that cough decreases with repeated use of the product and should stabilize after the first 
month or so.  
Colobreathe 
Assessment report  
Page 66/66
 
 
 
 
