EMA/808930/2011 corr. 
EMEA/H/C/001225 
EPAR summary for the public 
Colobreathe 
colistimethate sodium 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Colobreathe. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Colobreathe. 
What is Colobreathe? 
Colobreathe is a medicine that contains the active substance colistimethate sodium. It is available as 
capsules containing a powder for inhalation using an inhaler device.  
What is Colobreathe used for? 
Colobreathe is used to manage long-term lung infection caused by the bacteria Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in patients aged six years and over who have cystic fibrosis.  
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease that affects the cells in the lungs and the glands in the gut and 
pancreas which secrete fluids such as mucus and digestive juices. In cystic fibrosis these fluids become 
thick and viscous, blocking the airways and the flow of digestive juices. The accumulation of mucus in 
the lungs allows bacteria to grow more easily causing infections, lung damage and breathing problems. 
Bacterial lung infection with P. aeruginosa is frequent in cystic fibrosis patients. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Colobreathe used? 
The contents of Colobreathe capsules are inhaled using a powder inhaler called Turbospin. They are 
not to be inhaled using any other device. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose is one capsule twice daily, taken as close as possible to 12 hours apart. The 
very first dose at the start of the treatment should be taken under medical supervision. Treatment may 
continue for as long as the doctor considers that the patient is benefiting from it.  
If the patient is also receiving other treatments for cystic fibrosis, they should be taken in the following 
order: inhaled bronchodilator, chest physiotherapy, other inhaled medicines and then Colobreathe. 
How does Colobreathe work? 
The active substance in Colobreathe, colistimethate sodium, is an antibiotic from the polymyxin group.  
Polymyxins work by disrupting the cell membrane of bacteria by interacting with certain components of 
the membrane called phospholipids. Polymyxins target a group of bacteria called Gram-negative 
bacteria, which includes P. aeruginosa, because their cell membranes contain a high level of 
phospholipids.  
Colistimethate sodium is a well-known antibiotic that has been used for several years to treat lung 
infection in cystic fibrosis patients and is available in the form of a solution used with a nebuliser (a 
machine that changes a solution into an aerosol that the patient can breathe in). Colobreathe, as a 
powder for inhalation, is expected to be more convenient for patients than nebulisers.  
How has Colobreathe been studied? 
The effects of Colobreathe were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans.  
Colobreathe was compared with another medicine, tobramycin nebuliser solution, in 380 cystic fibrosis 
patients aged six years and above with P. aeruginosa lung infection. The patients’ condition had been 
stabilised by treatment with tobramycin before the study. The main measure of effectiveness was 
based on the improvement in FEV1, adjusted for the patients’ age and height, after 24 weeks. FEV1 is 
the most air a person can breathe out in one second. 
What benefit has Colobreathe shown during the studies? 
Colobreathe compared well with the tobramycin treatment, considering the fact that the patients were 
already stabilised on tobramycin nebuliser. Among patients that completed the study, the 
improvement in FEV1 adjusted for age and height was 0.39% with Colobreathe compared with 0.78% 
with tobramycin. The improvements in FEV1 seen with Colobreathe were considered sufficient proof of 
effectiveness, considering the fact that the patients in the study were already stabilised on tobramycin 
nebuliser. 
What is the risk associated with Colobreathe? 
The most common side effects seen with Colobreathe in studies were: unpleasant taste, cough, throat 
irritation, difficulty breathing and dysphonia (difficulty speaking). Inhalation may also lead to coughing 
or bronchospasm (tightening of the muscles in the airway), which may be controlled by first treating 
the patients with inhaled beta-2 agonist medicines. For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Colobreathe, see the package leaflet. 
Colobreathe must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to colistimethate sodium or 
to colistin sulphate or polymyxin B. 
Colobreathe  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Why has Colobreathe been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that the modest improvement in FEV1 seen with Colobreathe was sufficient 
evidence of the medicine’s effectiveness, given that larger improvements would not be expected in 
patients whose condition was already stabilised on tobramycin nebuliser. In addition, the Committee 
noted that patients generally prefer inhaling powder to using a nebuliser. 
The side effects seen with Colobreathe were considered acceptable. No more serious side effects were 
seen with Colobreathe than with tobramycin. 
The Committee therefore decided that the benefits of Colobreathe are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of Colobreathe? 
The company that makes Colobreathe will supply education packs to patients and healthcare 
professionals. The packs will contain information on the need to comply with treatment, instructions on 
how to use the medicine and information on side effects. 
Other information about Colobreathe 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Colobreathe on 13 February 2012. 
The full EPAR for Colobreathe can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Colobreathe, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2011. 
Colobreathe  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
