23 October 2014 
EMA/707128/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report 
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
Polymyxin-based products 
INN/active substance: colistin, colistimethate sodium 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1383; 
Colobreathe EMEA/H/A-31/1383/C/1225/0007 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a 
commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Referral of the matter to the CHMP ......................................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics ............................................................... 5 
2.2.1. Strength expression ........................................................................................... 5 
2.2.2. Mechanism of conversion of CMS to colistin .......................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Mechanism of action .......................................................................................... 6 
2.2.4. Mechanism of resistance ..................................................................................... 7 
2.2.5. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.6. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 10 
2.3. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 10 
2.3.1. Efficacy of intravenous CMS .............................................................................. 10 
2.3.2. Efficacy in children ........................................................................................... 12 
2.3.3. Dosage recommendations for intravenous CMS ................................................... 12 
2.3.4. Efficacy of inhaled CMS .................................................................................... 15 
2.3.5. Dosage recommendations for inhaled CMS .......................................................... 16 
2.3.6. Non-critically ill patients ................................................................................... 16 
2.3.7. Other routes of administration........................................................................... 17 
2.4. Safety data ........................................................................................................ 18 
2.5. Consultation of the PKWP and the IDWP ................................................................ 20 
2.6. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 20 
2.7. Changes to the product information ...................................................................... 20 
2.8. Benefit-risk balance ............................................................................................ 20 
3. Conclusion and grounds for opinion ...................................................... 22 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Referral of the matter to the CHMP 
On 16 September 2013, the European Commission initiated a referral under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. The CHMP was requested to give its opinion on the benefit-risk of polymyxin-
based products and on the need for regulatory measures to be taken. 
The procedure described in Article 32 of Directive 2001/83/EC was applicable. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The emergence of multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria that cause nosocomial infections is a 
growing problem worldwide. Limited therapeutic options have led to an increased clinical use of 
colistin, a polymyxin antibiotic developed over 50 years ago and which has retained activity against a 
number of multi-drug resistant pathogens. This is possibly due to its limited clinical use as the 
parenteral formulation quickly decreased in utilisation following authorisation in the 1960s, due to the 
existence of safer, less neurotoxic and nephrotoxic therapeutic options. As a consequence, the existing 
preclinical and clinical pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) information is limited, the 
product information has not been significantly updated over the years and the dosage regimens in use 
today are not based upon robust PK/PD data. Indeed, recent clinical experience and the medical 
literature point to the urgent need to update the product information, in particular the indications, the 
dosage recommendations and the PK/PD information, as highlighted by recent reports of suboptimal 
efficacy and the emergence of colistin resistance, in particular when used as monotherapy. In addition, 
differences across the world in the expression of the strength and dose of colistin products may result 
in medication errors and put patients at risk. 
Polymyxins are currently listed among the critically important antimicrobials and in view of the 
importance of ensuring the availability of efficacious and safe antibiotics in order to efficiently respond 
to the threat posed by the spread of antimicrobial resistance, the European Commission initiated a 
procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC on 16 September 2013, requesting the CHMP to 
give its opinion on the benefit-risk of polymyxin-based products and on the need for regulatory 
measures.  
The CHMP noted the variations and divergences of the various authorised products in terms of 
indications and dosage recommendations across the EU, in particular for the parenteral route of 
administration. The CHMP noted that colistimethate sodium (CMS) is widely approved for use in adults 
and children without explicit age restriction. One SmPC lists intramuscular use rather than intravenous 
use as well as the use of intrapleural and intraperitoneal administration, while another includes 
recommendations for intrathecal and intraventricular administration in meningitis. The CHMP 
considered that these differences reflect uncertainties in the most appropriate use of colistin due to the 
limited data in the literature. The CHMP decided that the medical need was greatest for high dose 
(500.000 IU or higher) medicinal products for parenteral and inhalation use and that the scope of the 
review should be limited to these products. Consequently, products for oral, topical, vaginal or 
auricular use were not included in the scope of the procedure, nor were polymyxin-containing products 
authorised as vaccines. The scope of the procedure includes nationally-authorised medicinal products 
and a centrally-authorised medicinal product, Colobreath (dry powder for inhalation), authorised in 
February 2012 and indicated for the treatment of lung infections caused by the bacteria P. aeruginosa 
in patients with cystic fibrosis. While the PK and posology for this product differs from other inhalation 
solution products, the CHMP considered the recently reviewed data included in the product information 
to be of relevance to the parenteral and solution for inhalation products.  
Of note, a review under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was initiated by the European 
Medicines Agency on 13 September 2013, requesting the CHMP to give an opinion on whether the 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 4 
 
 
 
 
 
current manufacturing, the quality control methods and the Ph. Eur. Monograph for polymyxin-based 
products need to be revised. 
In its assessment, the CHMP reviewed all available data, including data submitted during the procedure 
by the MAHs, in response to the questions raised by CHMP. This report presents a summary of the 
relevant data for the procedure. In the context of the procedure, the CHMP consulted the 
Pharmacokinetics Working Party (PKWP) and the Infectious Disease Working Party (IDWP). 
Polymyxins are a group of naturally occurring multi-component polypeptide antibiotics produced by 
selected strains of the spore-forming soil bacterium Paenibacillus polymyxa (formerly known as Bacillus 
polymyxa var. colistinus). Five major, chemically distinct members of the group have been recognised 
and are designated as polymyxins A, B, C, D and E, of which B and E are available commercially. Only 
polymyxin E is approved for clinical use in the EU and is therefore the focus of this procedure. 
Polymyxin E is usually referred to as colistin and its two main components polymyxin E1 and polymyxin 
E2 are therefore referred to as colistin A and colistin B, respectively. As colistin is an uneven mixture pf 
colistin A and B, the comparative antimicrobial activity of both subcomponents would potentially be 
relevant if the proportional yield of colistin A and B is not consistent, however no data was identified in 
the published literature and only an abbreviated report of a limited investigation by one MAH was 
submitted, suggesting that there are no differences in antimicrobial activity between colistin, colistin A 
and colistin B. 
Two forms of colistin are used clinically: colistin sulphate and its microbiologically inactive prodrug, 
CMS. Colistin sulphate has a relatively high level of toxicity associated with parenteral administration 
and is therefore mainly used for oral and topical administration. Instead, CMS was developed for 
parenteral and inhalation use, manufactured from colistin base by the action of formaldehyde and 
sodium bisulphite. CMS for parenteral use is indicated for the treatment of serious infections caused by 
Gram-negative pathogens and CMS for inhalation use is indicated for the management of chronic 
pulmonary infections due to P. aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis. 
2.2.  Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
2.2.1.  Strength expression 
The CHMP reviewed the available data to determine the optimal way of expressing the strength and 
dose of polymyxin-containing finished drug products and noted the currently existing differences. The 
EU reference standard is declared in international units (IU)/mg, while US reference standard is 
declared in µg activity/mg of colistin base activity (CBA). Accordingly, in clinical practice in the EU and 
in the European and British Pharmacopoeia, strength and vial contents are expressed as IU of CMS 
while in other parts of the world, such as North America and Australia, vial contents are expressed in 
mg of CBA, even though the drug product content is CMS. 
The definition of an international unit of the drug is biological, i.e. 1 IU of colistin is defined as the 
amount of colistin that inhibits the growth of Escherichia coli 95 I.S.M. under standardised conditions. 
Based on historical information referenced in Martindale Extra Pharmacopoeia, 29th edition, it is 
generally accepted that 1 mg of pure CBA has a potency of 30.000 IU CMS, while 1 mg of CMS has a 
potency of 12.500 IU. These conversions are valid whether the potency result is obtained from testing 
with US or EU reference material and the potency can therefore be converted from IU/mg to µg 
activity/mg and vice-versa. Confusion arises when mass units (mg) are used incorrectly as measures 
of activity. 
As a result, 1 million IU (MIU) of CMS is approximately equal to 80 mg CMS or 33.3 mg CBA. In the EU, 
this results in a conversion factor of 2.4 (80 mg CMS divided by 33.3 mg CBA) which means that 2.4 
mg of CMS is required to obtain 1 mg of CBA. However, reference is also found in US publications to a 
conversion factor of 2.67, obtained when considering that 1 MIU CMS is equal to 30 mg CBA (80 mg 
CMS divided by 30 mg CBA = 2.67). This small difference between the conversion factor results in 
large differences for large doses: a US vial labelled as containing 150 mg CBA would contain 4.5 or 5 
MIU of CMS, depending on the conversion factor, which would explain some of the differences in 
maximum daily dose frequently observed in the literature (9 versus 10 MIU). 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP was of the opinion that given the established use of international units in the EU, the 
strength and dosing recommendations in the EU SmPC and PL for CMS should continue to be 
expressed in international units, as any potential switch in strength expression risks causing confusion 
and potential administration errors even if accompanied by advice and educational material to 
stakeholders. However, the CHMP considered that the multiplicity of terms used is likely to lead to 
dosage and reporting errors and therefore decided to introduce a table indicating dose content 
conversions between CMS expressed in IU, CMS expressed in mg and CBA expressed in mg. This table 
will raise awareness of the different ways of expressing dose and will be of relevance to prescribers 
who obtain additional information from medical literature or publications using different standards or 
ways of expressing dose or strength. The final agreed wording is presented in Annex III. 
2.2.2.  Mechanism of conversion of CMS to colistin 
The conversion from CMS to colistin requires hydrolysis of the sulfomethyl peptide linkages, with 85% 
of CMS converted into the two major active components, colistin A and colistin B, while the remaining 
15% are converted into a complex mixture of up to 32 partially sulphomethylated colistin derivatives 
that also seem to possess variable antibacterial activity, although there is little data on this. It appears 
that all sulfomethyl groups of the inactive prodrug CMS must be cleaved from the peptide structure to 
form the active colistin compound. 
The CHMP noted that this conversion occurs both in vitro in aqueous solutions as well as in vivo in 
human plasma after administration. It is not clear if the in vivo hydrolysis involves any catalysing 
enzymes, or if CMS undergoes a non-hydrolytic degradation process. The available data indicates that 
in vitro conversion is temperature and concentration dependent, with higher conversion rates at lower, 
less clinically relevant, concentrations. In contrast, more concentrated solutions of CMS, such as those 
in pharmaceutical formulations, have been shown to be stable for extended periods with respect to 
formation of colistin. Data by Li et al, 2003 suggest slow conversion in human plasma ex vivo, in 
contrast to the rapid appearance of colistin after CMS administration in rats, leading to the assumption 
that mechanisms other than blood/plasma-mediated hydrolysis may contribute to the rapid in vivo 
formation of colistin. However, human data from critically ill patients suggest a rather slow conversion 
in vivo. Regarding the extent of conversion, Li et al. and Marchand et al, 2010 estimated a fractional 
systemic conversion of 6% and 13%, respectively, while Yapa et al, 2014 reported even lower 
estimates of around 3%. Conversion rates of around 30% have been reported in humans. Slow, 
sustained conversion of CMS to colistin in epithelial lung fluid was described by Yapa, resulting in a 
higher rate of conversion of 23%. 
In summary, the CHMP noted that the extent and rate of conversion of CMS in vivo as well as the 
mechanism of conversion remain incompletely characterised and that a statement indicating the lack of 
data on the mechanism of conversion and hence the lack of data on the potential for drug-drug 
interaction should be included in the SmPC. The CHMP also considered that the known conversion of 
the reconstituted drug product in vitro has potential implications for toxicity, as colistin is less safe and 
less well tolerated than CMS. The reconstituted drug product should therefore not be stored for 
extended periods of time before administration, whether intravenously or via inhalation and infusion 
times should be kept reasonably short. On the other hand, the delay in appearance of colistin after 
CMS administration makes rapid infusion unnecessary. Infusion times of 30-60 minutes seem suitable 
and reflect the current recommendations across the EU. 
2.2.3.  Mechanism of action 
Regarding the mode of action of colistin, the CHMP noted that no original data was available but that 
publications by Davis et al, 1971, Newton et al, 1956, and Schindler et al, 1979 suggest that the target 
of antimicrobial activity of colistin is the bacterial cell membrane. The initial association of colistin with 
the bacterial membrane occurs through electrostatic interactions between the cationic polypeptide 
(colistin) and anionic lipopolysaccharide molecules in the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, 
leading to a loss of membrane integrity and an increase in the permeability of the cell envelope, 
leakage of cell contents, and subsequently, cell death. However, there are also reports on an 
alternative mode of action in which colistin acts intracellularly to precipitate ribosomes and other 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 6 
 
 
 
 
 
cytoplasmic component and uncertainties remain as to the exact mode of action. However, synergistic 
activity to disrupt membrane integrity is plausible, in particular with hydrophilic antibacterial agents 
such as rifampicin, carbapenems, glycopeptides and tetracyclines. Colistin is mostly active against 
Gram-negative clinical isolates. Colistin is active against most species of Enterobacteriaceae, excluding 
Proteae and Serratia spp.. The non-fermentative Gram-negative bacteria P. aeruginosa and 
Acinetobacter species are naturally susceptible. Colistin is also active against Haemophilus influenzae, 
E. coli, Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., Klebsiella spp., Legionella pneumophila, Aeromonas spp., 
Citrobacter spp. and Bordetella pertussis. Campylobacter species vary in susceptibility to colistin. 
Colistin was evaluated for antibacterial activity against an extensive collection of Gram-negative 
pathogens collected as part of the SENTRY Antimicrobial Surveillance Program between 2006 and 2009 
(Gales et al, 2011). The study showed that colistin maintained high susceptibility rates above or equal 
to 98.5% for all key target pathogens and MIC90 values that were ≤1 mg/l. The study evaluated 9,130 
clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa and colistin exhibited good activity against all isolates with an MIC90 of 
1 µg/ml and 99.6% of isolates being reported as susceptible using EUCAST interpretive criteria. 
Furthermore, colistin susceptibility rates remained relatively constant over the 4 years of the study. 
2.2.4.  Mechanism of resistance 
Several mechanisms of resistance have been identified in the targeted species, the most common 
appearing to be modifications to lipopolysaccharides, the initial site of action of colistin. Overall 
resistance levels to colistin appear relatively low at present, which may in part be explained by the low 
levels of clinical use. There is complete cross-resistance between the polymyxin B and E. The 
pathogenic Neisseria spp., Moraxella catarrhalis, Helicobacter pylori, Proteus mirabilis, Serratia 
marcescens, Morganella morganii, Chromobacterium and Brucella species are naturally resistant to 
colistin and isolates of Inquilinus, Pandoraea and Burkholderia associated with cystic fibrosis are also 
intrinsically resistant to colistin. According to the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility 
Testing (EUCAST), acquired resistance to colistin occurs in Enterobacteriaceae, Acinetobacter spp. and 
P. aeruginosa. Stable acquired resistance is rare and high frequency of mutational resistance to colistin 
when used alone was observed in Gram-negative bacteria including K. pneumoniae, P. aeruginosa, A. 
baumannii and E. coli. A strong association between the use of colistin and the development of 
resistance in A. baumannii has been reported in clinical isolates collected between 2001 and 2004 and 
outbreaks with colistin-resistant strains have been reported. A report by the Antimicrobial Advice ad 
hoc Expert group (AMEG) published by the EMA in 2013 found that “acquired resistance to colistin was 
characterised by chromosomal mutations and thus in theory is non-transferable by mobile genetic 
elements. Polymyxin resistance is mediated by mutations in specific regions (pmrA/B and phoP/Q). 
With the exception of some well-examined clinical strains, many of the above mutation mechanisms 
are not stable after several passages in vitro. This instability of polymyxin resistance, and the absence 
of horizontal gene transfer of these mutations, reduces the risk of rapid spread of resistance to colistin. 
Investigations on consecutive samples of Acinetobacter baumannii from nosocomial infections have 
indicated that this in vitro instability of colistin resistance is also found in vivo during colistin therapy. 
Out of 37 patients treated with colistin for <1 to 3 months, in 5 patients (13%) mutations in the pmr 
locus were found. Colistin susceptibilities returned soon after cessation of colisitin therapy. […] 
Mutations coding for colistin resistance might even downregulate resistance spread by horizontal gene 
transfer”. 
In summary, mechanisms of acquired resistance to colistin are limited to a stepwise process via 
mutations in target bacteria. However, clinical data indicate that this clonal resistance can develop and 
can spread rapidly under certain conditions. Resistance transfer via mobile genetic elements (e.g. 
plasmids) between bacteria has not been reported. Colistin resistance is surveyed as part of the 
European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Network. Data from the UK and Denmark suggest that 
resistance to colistin in multi-drug resistant P. aeruginosa has not been observed for 15 years. In vitro 
time-kill studies in a limited number of strains indicate that colistin displays very rapid concentration-
dependent killing against P. aeruginosa and A. baumanii, and appears to have a modest post-antibiotic 
effect which is only seen at high concentrations (and may hence not be relevant clinically). Regrowth is 
a common feature seen in vitro and in vivo in A. baumannii and K. pneumoniae in static time-kill 
studies utilizing colistin concentrations up to 64× MIC and in P. aeruginosa with colistin concentrations 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
up to 200 mg/l. Colistin hetero-resistance has been observed in those pathogens and may contribute 
to the emergence of colistin resistance (Bergen et al, 2008) but the CHMP noted that combination 
therapy may reduce the emergence of such subpopulations. Colistin-resistant subpopulations in colistin 
hetero-resistant strains of A. baumannii had remarkably greater susceptibility, compared to their 
parent strains, to other antibiotics including those that normally are not active against Gram-negative 
bacteria. The CHMP was of the view that the SmPC should include a warning regarding the risk of 
development of resistance. Development of resistance associated with inhaled use was considered less 
problematic, although it is acknowledged that this was based on data generated on the use of colistin 
in combination with ciprofloxacin.  
2.2.5.  Pharmacokinetics 
The CHMP reviewed a number of PK studies in various patient subpopulations and noted that there is 
limited PK data for colistin and CMS and that most of this data is based on the results of 
microbiological assays which are unable to quantify colistin and CMS separately. Even a low percentage 
of CMS degradation after sampling and during the workup procedure can have a pronounced influence 
on the colistin concentrations, particularly at time points when the CMS concentration is high and the 
colistin concentration is low. Reliable high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-based methods, 
which enable colistin and CMS to be measured in biologic specimens accurately and separately were 
only established relatively recently (Li et al, 2001 and Li et al, 2002). This assessment is therefore 
generally limited to clinical PK studies using HPLC or liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry assays 
to determine colistin/CMS plasma concentrations. Ex vivo conversion of CMS to colistin may however 
still contribute to inaccurate results, in particular where urine analysis is involved. 
After intravenous administration of a single dose of CMS in healthy subjects, colistin appears in plasma 
with a delay. It is estimated that approximately 30% of CMS is converted to colistin. The volume of 
distribution of colistin in healthy subjects is low and corresponds approximately to the extracellular 
fluid volume. The overall disposition of formed colistin is rate-limited by its elimination rather than its 
formation as indicated by the substantially longer terminal half-life of formed colistin compared with 
that of the administered CMS. The half-life of colistin in healthy subjects is reported to be around 3h, 
with a total clearance of around 3L/h. Mohamed et al, 2012 determined the unbound fraction of colistin 
in plasma from healthy volunteers and showed it to be concentration-dependent (decreasing with 
higher concentrations). The measured unbound fractions of total colistin in patients were 34% 
(median) and ranged from 26 to 41%. 
CMS is mainly eliminated renally via glomerular filtration (in healthy volunteers, 60-70% of CMS is 
excreted in the urine during the first 24 hours), but the fate of the remaining proportion is unclear. At 
least a proportion of the remaining 40% is converted to colistin. Unusually for a prodrug, its clearance 
is dependent on creatinine clearance (CrCL) and as renal function decreases, a greater portion of the 
prodrug is converted to colistin. In patients with very poor renal function (CrCL <30 ml/min), the 
extent of conversion could be as high as 60 to 70%. 
Colistin seems to undergo renal reabsorption and is postulated to be eliminated predominantly by the 
non-renal route by mechanisms that are not characterised. However, Ma et al, 2009, who studied 
colistin in the isolated perfused rat kidney, found that 90% of colistin was removed by the kidney, but 
only 10% appeared in urine, suggesting either renal accumulation of colistin or metabolism of colistin 
in the kidney and the kidney may therefore be the major organ of elimination for colistin, with little 
elimination by the liver. Given the known nephrotoxicity of colistin, the potential for renal accumulation 
is of concern. Little data on multiple dosing in patients has been published and renal accumulation of 
colistin in humans cannot be fully ruled out. The data published by Mohamed et al, 2012 are reassuring 
in this regard, as concentration data after the 8th dose are observed to be lower than predicted from 
the population PK model.  
In the same study, active transporters were shown to be involved in the extensive reabsorption of 
colistin and interactions with drugs that inhibit these renal transporters cannot be excluded. Such 
inhibition would result in increased renal elimination of colistin and reduced efficacy. 
Animal data by Li et al, 2003 suggest that colistin clearance may be largely independent of liver blood 
flow (low extraction ratio) and, as protein binding is not extensive, would be expected to be mainly 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
 
dependent on intrinsic hepatic clearance. However, no difference in the PK for colistin and CMS was 
found in rats with induced liver failure. While these data are considered inconsistent with the purported 
extensive non-renal clearance of colistin, they would be expected if the kidney is the main organ of 
colistin elimination. The translation of these findings to colistin disposition in patients is unclear. 
As would be expected, simulations performed by Couet et al, 2011 show that impaired (non-renal) 
colistin clearance is predicted to lead to significantly elevated plasma concentrations. Given that the 
respective roles of the liver and kidney in colistin clearance are unclear in patients, a cautionary 
statement regarding patients with impaired hepatic function was included in the SmPC. In addition, the 
CHMP considered that a comment indicating the lack of data on the elimination of colistin and hence 
the lack of data on the potential for drug-drug interaction should be included in the SmPC, together 
with cautionary advice when colistin is co-administered with drugs known to affect drug metabolising 
enzymes to a relevant degree. The final agreed wording is presented in Annex III. 
Further informative PK data stem from studies in critically ill patients, which all suggested that a two-
compartment model for CMS and a one-compartment model for colistin best described the observed 
data. Both CMS and colistin were reported to display linear PK in the dose ranged used. 
Plachouras et al, 2009 found a significant delay to reach Cmax for colistin (7h) and noted that the PK 
of colistin A and B were found to be very similar. The population PK model did not find a correlation 
between colistin concentration and creatinine clearance, which is likely due to the lack of patients with 
significant renal impairment in this study. The T½ of CMS was very similar to that in healthy subjects 
reported by Couet, while T½ for colistin was longer (14h versus 3h). The estimated volume of 
distribution of formed colistin was much higher than found in healthy subjects (189l) and colistin 
clearance was found to be higher (9l/h versus 2.9l/h). Both parameters depend on the estimate for 
conversion of CMS. 
Mohamed et al, 2012 added data from 10 critically ill patients who received a loading dose of CMS to 
this population PK model. The updated population PK model showed similar results to the study by 
Plachouras. In addition it was found that colistin A, but not colistin B, had a concentration-dependent 
binding. There was no obvious difference in plasma binding in the critically ill patients and the healthy 
volunteers over the concentration range studied, which is not necessarily expected as colistin was 
demonstrated to bind to alpha-1 acid GP, which is known to be elevated in critical illness. 
Garonzik et al, 2011 included 105 critically ill patients with renal impairment and patients on renal 
replacement therapy (RRT) and showed that there was a strong correlation between CrCL and average 
plasma concentrations and that CrCL was a relevant covariate for both CMS and colistin plasma 
concentrations. The half-life of CMS (4.6h) and colistin (9h) in patients with CrCL > 70ml/h was longer 
than in healthy subjects. It could be speculated that this is due to a larger volume of distribution in the 
critically ill. In patients with renal insufficiency or renal failure, the excretion of CMS is decreased, 
possibly resulting in a greater conversion to colistin and increased colistin exposure (Bergen et al 2012, 
Biswas et al 2012, Michalopoulos et al, 2011).  
It was also considered that “critically ill” patients are a poorly defined group, whose characteristics will 
differ significantly between patients. The high variability of plasma concentrations observed by 
Garonzik et al can partly be explained by the heterogeneity of this population. Nevertheless, the 
relatively consistent findings of the main studies support the use of PK data, although it must be 
considered that patients with less systemic involvement than those termed “critically ill” may display 
different PK. The CHMP considered that colistin is presently (and should remain) a second or third line 
antibacterial agent and is likely used in patients who have already failed other treatments or have 
acquired their infection after a prolonged hospital stay. For these reasons, the typical target population 
can be expected to be broadly similar to the populations in the studies. The PK of patients with 
pulmonary exacerbations of cystic fibrosis may differ from those of critically ill patients, however 
intravenous colistin is not presently approved in this group in the vast majority of member states. Li et 
al presented data from a small group of patients with cystic fibrosis and reported half-lives of 2 h for 
CMS and 4.2 h for colistin. The reported clearance may be an overestimate as a mono-exponential 
model was assumed for CMS. The data by Li et al and Reed et al, 2001 seems to suggest that PK data 
for CMS and colistin in cystic fibrosis patients receiving intravenous CMS for acute pulmonary 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
exacerbation are more similar to those in healthy adults and could be a reflection of lesser 
physiological abnormalities compared to critically ill patients. 
In summary, the formation of colistin from CMS in vivo is incomplete and relatively slow, leading to a 
significant delay in reaching effective plasma concentrations, at least in critically ill patients. In normal 
renal function, approximately 20-30% of CMS is converted to colistin, although the rate of conversion 
may be higher in critically ill patients. The volume of distribution of colistin approximates the 
extracellular fluid in healthy subjects, but may also be higher in critically ill patients, although the 
uncertainty regarding the extent of conversion of CMS to colistin affects the estimates. Protein binding 
is moderate and dose dependent for colistin A (but not B) and hence for total colistin. The unbound 
fraction increases at higher doses. CMS and colistin appear to have linear kinetics in clinically relevant 
doses. T ½ appears longer in critically ill patients (14h) compared to healthy subjects and those with 
cystic fibrosis (3-4h). T1/2 of colistin is longer than T1/2 of CMS in all patient populations. Around 60-
70% of CMS is excreted renally in subjects with normal renal function. Colistin appears to undergo 
extensive tubular reabsorption and is cleared non-renally, however CrCL is a significant predictor of 
both CMS and of colistin plasma concentrations, the latter possibly due to changes in the proportion 
converted from CMS. The effect of hepatic disease on colistin clearance in humans is not known. The 
potential for drug-drug interactions is equally unknown. CMS and colistin are removed during 
intermittent haemodialysis and continuous RRT. The CHMP agreed on wording to be inserted 
accordingly in the SmPC. The final agreed wording is presented in Annex III. 
2.2.6.  Pharmacodynamics  
The CHMP also examined the concentration-effect relationship of colistin, noting that simulated 
regimens have been carried out in an in vitro PK/PD model based on the PK of colistin generated from 
CMS in humans with normal renal function and allowing for an unbound fraction of colistin in human 
plasma of approximately 0.5. Killing was the same with 8, 12 and 24 h regimens (which resulted in 
similar areas under the curve (AUCs)) and the data showed that longer dose intervals may increase 
the likelihood of resistance development as the emergence of resistance appeared less likely with 8 h 
dosing. This may be related to the finding that colistin, despite its concentration-dependent killing, 
possesses little or no post-antibiotic effect at clinically relevant concentrations. It should be noted 
however that the PK parameters simulated used a T1/2 of 4h, shorter than what was observed in the 
population of the critically ill, which may affect data interpretation. 
A study by Dhudani et al, 2010 investigated the relationship between antibacterial effect and measures 
of exposure to unbound colistin, showing that the PK/PD parameter that correlated best with its 
efficacy was fAUC/MIC (area under the concentration-time curve). The fAUC/MIC targets required to 
achieve 1-log and 2-log kill against the three strains were 15.6 to 22.8 and 27.6 to 36.1, respectively, 
in the thigh infection model, while the corresponding values were 12.2 to 16.7 and 36.9 to 45.9 in the 
lung infection model. The findings of this in vivo study indicate the importance of achieving adequate 
time-averaged exposure to colistin and the results were taken into consideration for breakpoint setting 
by EUCAST. A further study by the same authors found the same index to be relevant for A. baumanii. 
The CHMP noted the current EUCAST clinical breakpoints (version 1.0, 2010) and that there is 
insufficient evidence to set non-species-related breakpoints for parenteral colistin. Species-related 
breakpoints were based on PK data, microbiological data and clinical experience. It was also noted that 
breakpoints for inhaled and topical colistin are not available. 
2.3.  Clinical efficacy 
2.3.1.  Efficacy of intravenous CMS 
Regarding the efficacy of intravenous CMS, the CHMP reviewed a number of studies, inculding a 
prospective study by Dalfino et al, 2012 aiming to validate the dosage proposed by Plachouras et al in 
the treatment of multi-drug resistant Gram-negative infections. The CMS dosing schedule was based 
on a loading dose of 9 MIU and a 9 MIU twice daily (bid) maintenance dose, titrated on renal function. 
In patients with moderate to severe renal impairment, the loading dose was 9 MIU with maintenance 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
doses of 4.5 MIU/24 hours (CrCL 20–50 ml/min) or 4.5 MIU/48 hours (CrCL <20 ml/min). A high 
clinical cure rate (82.1%) of predominantly bloodstream infections and ventilator-associated 
pneumonia (VAP) in their cohort of 286 patients was observed. Acute kidney injury developed during 5 
treatment courses (17.8%) subsided within 10 days after cessation of treatment. The CHMP considered 
that the study provided some clinical support for the use of higher than previously recommended doses 
of colistin, after administration of a loading dose, in the critically ill population. All patients in the study 
fulfilled the criteria for sepsis or septic shock. Overall cure rates were relative high, and while renal 
toxicity was observed in a relatively large proportion, the background rate for renal injury in this 
population is considered high.  
Other data on the clinical efficacy of intravenous colistin stem mostly from retrospective studies on 
colistin in a range of conditions, as expected in view of the clinical use pattern of colistin. The largest of 
the cohort studies (Falagas et al, 2009) enrolled intensive-care unit patients mostly with pneumonia 
(60%), with other diagnoses including bacteraemia (13%), abdominal infections (9%), central venous 
catheter-related infections (6%) and infections of other sites (12%). Overall, a high success rate was 
found, with best results for patients with pneumonia. Patients with concurrently administered 
carbapenems had better outcomes than those with other concurrent antibiotics. The study showed 
acceptable levels of nephrotoxicity (10% of patients) and considerable effectiveness depending on the 
dose and infection site (in total, 79.1% of patients were cured). The effectiveness of colistin was not 
found to be dependent on the type of pathogen. The authors commented that higher doses of colistin 
(above 6 MIU) than currently recommended in the product information are increasingly used in clinical 
practice. 
Levin et al, 1999 used intravenous CMS for nosocomial infections caused by P. aeruginosa and A. 
baumannii resistant to aminoglycosides, cephalosporins, quinolones, penicillins, monobactams, and 
imipenem. Here, the poorest results were observed in pneumonia (n=20), with only 25% cured. Other 
studies reported moderately high success rates in pneumonia including VAP (Montero et al, 2009, 
Kallel et al, 2006, Kwa et al, 2008). Garnacho-Montero et al, 2003 performed a preliminary evaluation 
of 35 cases of VAP caused by A. baumannii that were treated with intravenous colistin or imipenem. 
Clinical cure was reported in 57% of patients.  
Overall, the best evidence for the efficacy of intravenous colistin was found in pneumonia, including 
VAP. Various studies or case series reported acceptable success rates with colistin in other infections 
with multi-drug resistant Gram-negative pathogens. The more commonly reported infections are 
urinary tract infections (UTI), and some cases of intra-abdominal infections (IAI) and skin and soft 
tissue infections (SSTI), particularly in patients with burns, as may be expected. “Bloodstream 
infections” are also frequently reported, as are bacteraemia and catheter related infections. 
There is limited data to suggest that colistin penetrates into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) after 
intravenous administration of CMS, however no recent data on CSF concentrations were identified. 
Several case reports have suggested the efficacy of intravenous CMS against meningitis caused by 
multi-drug resistant A. baumannii. The evidence is at present considered insufficient to confirm safety 
and efficacy. Case reports indicate that colistin has been used intrathecally, but there is very limited 
safety data and unclear dosages (further discussed later in this report). The CHMP considered that the 
SmPC should include a comment to point out that there is insufficient data to indicate that colistin 
crosses the blood-brain barrier to a therapeutically relevant extent and that there is very limited 
evidence on efficacy in meningitis. The final agreed wording is presented in Annex III. 
Data from the literature provide some support for efficacy in VAP, UTI, IAI and SSTI in burns patients 
and cases associated with bacteraemia; however the focus of the studies is on the pathogens rather 
than the site of infection, while current regulatory requirement require site specific indications. In line 
with the position of the IDWP, the CHMP therefore reworded the indication according to the wording for 
use of antimicrobial agents in patients with limited treatment options suggested in the addendum to 
the Guideline on the evaluation of medicinal products indicated for treatment of bacterial infections 
(CPMP/EWP/558/95 Rev. 2), to allow more appropriate clinical use of intravenous colistin. In addition, 
the CHMP agreed with the IDWP recommendation to qualify the indication as “serious”, in light of the 
known safety profile of colistin and adopted the following indication: “For the treatment of serious 
infections due to selected aerobic Gram-negative pathogens in patients with limited treatment 
options”. In addition, the CHMP emphasised that national guidelines should be adhered to and added 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
the statement “Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of 
antibacterial agents“, taking into account the need to adapt national prescriptions, especially regarding 
the local situation. The SmPC should also include a statement in section 4.4 detailing the limitations of 
the evidence available, while section 5.1 should detail the list of relevant species.  
Although the use of colistin monotherapy is considered to be effective in many cases, it is frequently 
used in combination with other antibiotics. However, studies do not consistently show improved 
efficacy when colistin is used in combination treatment, in fact most studies show similar outcomes 
with colistin alone or in combination, despite the theoretical possibility of a synergistic effect with other 
antimicrobial classes. The CHMP reviewed in vitro and in vivo studies supporting the use of colistin in 
combination with a variety of antimicrobial agents including beta-lactams, penems, rifampicin, 
glycopeptides and tetracyclines. Additive or synergistic effects against the commonly targeted 
pathogens were reported in a number of these investigations, while others did not identify clear 
beneficial effects in terms of improved efficacy. A further relevant aspect when considering the co-
administration of antibiotics is the prevention of resistance but no clinical studies were identified 
specifically addressing this question. Some more recent studies using an in vitro PK/PD model reported 
that at least for some drugs co-administered with colistin, a substantial increase in bacterial killing 
against colistin-susceptible, hetero-resistant, and resistant organisms (e.g. doripenem/colistin in multi-
drug resistant K. pneumonia) and reduced emergence of colistin resistance was observed. While the 
overall resistance to colistin is reported to be low, emergence of resistance under treatment is 
relatively common. This may be explained by the observation that many of the mutation mechanisms 
are not stable after several passages in in vitro tests (Moskowitz et al, 2004), which, together with the 
lack of horizontal resistance transfer, reduces the risk of spread of resistance. In the treatment of 
multi-drug resistant pathogens, combination of antibiotics is common in clinical practice and generally 
recommended. The CHMP noted the IDWP recommendation that use in combination with other 
antibacterial agents with the aim of reducing the risk of emergence of bacterial resistance is 
appropriate for the systemic route of administration and therefore introduced a statement in section 
4.4 of the SmPC regarding the co-administration of colistin with other antibiotics, taking into account 
the remaining susceptibilities of the pathogen(s) under treatment.” The final agreed wording is 
presented in Annex III. 
2.3.2.  Efficacy in children 
Regarding use in children, several case series were identified in children with and without cystic 
fibrosis. The case mix is very similar to the adult population, with pneumonia including VAP the most 
commonly treated infection. Other infections are “bloodstream infections”, UTI and SSTI and central 
nervous system infections in some cases. Based on this limited data, the CHMP was of the opinion that 
the indications agreed for the adult population can be extrapolated to the paediatric population and 
that no age restrictions should be included in the SmPC. The final agreed wording is presented in 
Annex III. 
2.3.3.  Dosage recommendations for intravenous CMS 
The CHMP noted that PK/PD-based dose finding is becoming increasingly established and accepted for 
antibacterial agents and is, in the absence of clinical dose finding studies, considered acceptable for 
colistin. It was also accepted that plasma concentrations persistently below the MIC for the relevant 
pathogens, as reported for colistin in some publications, cannot produce successful clinical outcomes. 
The CHMP therefore agreed that the available data on dosage is a cause for concern, as PK findings 
and the assumption that fAUC/MIC is the relevant predictive PK/PD parameter indicates that plasma 
concentrations in at least a proportion of patients is not optimised, which would lead to suboptimal 
efficacy for the treatment of infections caused by pathogens with MICs for colistin in the upper range, 
as well as the selection of resistant strains. The CHMP reviewed the data to determine whether a 
loading dose and longer dosing intervals would be more appropriate, including three main studies. 
A first study, by Plachouras et al, 2009 investigated plasma CMS and colistin concentrations on the 
basis of the model developed for the currently used dosage regimen (3 MIU as 15 min infusions tid) 
and for dosage regimens with a loading dose and a maintenance dose of 4.5 MIU bid (with infusion 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
lengths of 15 min to 2 h). Based on these data, the authors proposed a loading dose of 9 million IU 
followed by 3 MIU q8h, commenting that “the results from this study indicate that for a typical patient, 
colistin concentrations are below the MIC breakpoints (2 mg/l) after the first few doses of the currently 
used dosing regimen, in effect signifying a delay in appropriate treatment. Even at steady state, the 
plasma concentrations, as measured in the present study, are, in many cases, below the MIC 
breakpoints for the Enterobacteriaceae and P. aeruginosa, frequent multi-drug resistant pathogens in 
critically ill patients. A second study by Mohammed et al, 2012 modelled the time courses of the PK 
plasma concentrations and a semi-mechanistic PK/PD model for predictions of bacterial kill. Time 
courses of total and unbound colistin concentrations and bacterial counts following a maintenance dose 
of 2 MIU three times per day (tid) or 3 MIU bid and loading doses of 4 MIU, 6 MIU, and 8 MIU were 
predicted for an individual with the typical population value, with approximately 12.5 h to achieve a 3-
log-unit kill of wild-type P. aeruginosa following a loading dose of 6 MIU, whereas a dose of 2 MIU did 
not reach a 3-log-unit kill at all. For loading doses of 9 MIU and 12 MIU, the times to 3-log-unit kill 
decreased further and were estimated to be 6.5 and 5 h, respectively. The authors concluded that the 
results showed that a loading dose was beneficial for all concentration-time profiles predicted and a 
loading dose of 6 to 9 MIU is recommended in critically ill patients. In the third study, Garonzik et al, 
2011 developed dose suggestions for CMS in critically ill patients based on the population PK model for 
patients not on RRT described earlier. 
Data suggests that without the administration of a loading dose, it may take 2 to 3 days before the 
steady-state concentration of colistin is obtained for a typical individual. A loading dose of 9 MIU or 
even 12 MIU CMS and a maintenance dose of 4.5 MIU CMS bid would result in the same average 
steady-state concentration of colistin achieved with the current dosing schedule but would achieve the 
target concentration faster and lead to the need for less frequent administration, although some 
publications have indicated that extended interval dosing may be associated with increased 
nephrotoxicity in rats (Wallace et al, 2008) and increased resistance (Bergen et al, 2008). A 9 MIU 
loading dose followed by 4.5 MIU bid was shown to be effective in a series of 28 courses of infections 
in 25 patients. This regimen was not associated with renal toxicity and colistin resistance was not 
observed during the follow up period (Dalfino et al, 2012). The CHMP noted that several MAHs already 
included an option for a loading dose and a maintenance dose of up to 9 MIU/day in the product 
information of their products. 
The CHMP, taking into consideration the available data and the input from the IDWP therefore 
considered that a loading dose should be used in the critically ill population. While a loading dose of 9 
MIU for all patients seems supported, there is little data, including on safety, from clinical studies for 
doses > 9 MIU and there is almost no clinical data in support of a 12 MIU loading dose. The CHMP 
therefore proposed a simplified loading dose of 9 MIU for patients above 60kg and 6 MIU for patients 
below 60kg in critically ill adult patients, together with a statement that doses up to 12 MIU may be 
required for patients but that the clinical experience with such doses is limited. The loading dose 
should apply to all patients regardless of renal function. The need for, and size of, a loading dose in 
other populations is not clear. 
Regarding the maintenance dose, the CHMP agreed that data indicates that for patients with normal or 
at least not significantly impaired renal function, the presently recommended daily doses of up to 6 
MIU are not sufficient and are likely to achieve plasma concentrations lower than desirable. 
Although there is data indicating that doses of 9 MIU or higher are associated with an acceptable 
overall clinical success rates in patients with normal renal function, there is concern regarding the 
increased risk, in particular of nephrotoxicity, associated with higher doses. A suggestion by Li et al, 
2006 that Levin et al, 1999 used doses of up to 13 MIU in some patients could not be confirmed in the 
original article. Studies by Plachouras and Garonzik have indicated that (at least in patients with good 
renal function) loading and maintenance doses above 9 MIU may be preferable, although the lack of 
clinical data with such doses is of concern. None of these studies reviewed reported using loading 
doses above 9 MIU. In the study by Garonzik, maintenance doses of 9 MIU were used, but only in 
three patients. The CHMP therefore concluded that maintenance doses higher than 9 MIU/day are at 
present not supported by the available clinical data and that a total daily dose of 9 MIU is appropriate 
and should be recommended. In line with the position of the IDWP, the CHMP considered that 
additional wording could be added to the SmPC to indicate that modelling suggests that higher doses 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
up to 12 MIU may be justified in some cases, but also pointing out the present lack of supporting 
clinical data. In view of the long half-life at least in critically ill patients, a bid regimen appears 
sufficient, although other data suggest that a tid regimen may be preferable to reduce the likelihood of 
resistance development. The CHMP considered it acceptable to allow both bid and tid dose intervals in 
critically ill patients, however if colistin were to be used in other populations, where shorter T1/2 have 
been reported (e.g. in cystic fibrosis), tid would be preferable. As weight does not seem to relevantly 
affect maintenance dose, the dose could be applied to all adults (and paediatric patients above the 
commonly applied cut-off of 40kg). Even higher doses in excess of 9 MIU/day may be appropriate, 
however clinical safety data are lacking to support such a recommendation at present. 
Regarding time to first maintenance dose, it was suggested that after a loading dose, the first 
maintenance dose should generally be given according to the maintenance-dose schedule. Modelled 
data by Mohamed et al suggest that after a 9 MIU loading dose, extended dosing interval of 12h had a 
limited impact on the bacterial kill for all individual PK profiles predicted, while longer dosing intervals 
resulted in pronounced regrowth for shorter exposures. Additional simulations based on the available 
PK data suggested that in patients with normal CrCL, plasma concentrations will fall below the target 
Css,avg even after a 9 MIU loading dose. However, given the lack of data, the CHMP decided not to 
include any recommendations on the time interval to the first maintenance dose. 
Regarding the maintenance dose in patients with renal impairment or those on renal replacement 
therapy (RRT), dose recommendations could be based on the relationship identified between CrCL and 
CL CMS/colistin. According to this model, with an upper limit for the daily dose of 9 MIU as proposed in 
normal renal function, a daily dose of 9 MIU for all patients with CrCL at or above 50 ml/min would be 
appropriate. Below this, approximate daily doses of 6 (30-40 ml/min), 5 (20 ml/min) or 4 MIU (10 
ml/min) are calculated. It should however be noted that the resulting exposures for patients with renal 
impairment will be higher than for those with normal renal function, which may have implications for 
safety and requires further consideration. The CHMP therefore recommended dose reductions for 
patients with creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min, with bid dosing. For patients with reasonably good 
renal function (CrCL of 80 ml/min or greater), a daily dose of 9 MIU may not be sufficient to achieve a 
target Css,avg of 2.5 mg/l. In general, a loading dose of 9 MIU is supported, as is the interval of 24h 
before administering the next dose, although in patients with reasonably good renal function, it 
appears that it may be beneficial to administer after 12h. 
In patients receiving intermittent haemodialysis or continuous RRT, both CMS and colistin undergo 
efficient extracorporeal clearance, which is in agreement with previous case reports. Based on a fixed 
Css,avg of 2.5mg/l, this corresponds to a maintenance dose of 2.25 MIU/day on non-HD days and 3 
MIU/d on haemodialysis days, to be given after the HD session (bid dosing is recommended).  
For patients on continuous RRT, in line with the recommendations for patients with normal renal 
functions, it is advised not to exceed a total daily dose of 9 MIU in the absence of safety data and 
hence apply the same dose as in patients with normal renal function (9 MIU in 3 divided doses). The 
CHMP noted that the dose recommendations for patients on RRT derived by Garonzik are based on a 
very small dataset and have to be regarded with caution. Nevertheless, the risk of basing dose 
recommendation on such limited data must be balanced against the risk of providing no guidance to 
the prescriber and the CHMP therefore agreed to include dose recommendations in this patient 
population with a cautionary statement on the limitations of the data. 
In most studies, paediatric doses range from 50.000 – 75.000 IU/kg of CMS and it appears that this 
dose has been applied to children of all ages, including preterm neonates, although Iosifidis et al, 2010, 
Celebi et al, 2010 and Antachopoulos et al, 2010 describe the safe use of doses over 75.000 IU/kg and 
up to 225.000 IU/kg in single cases. None of the studies report the use of a loading dose, and clinical 
or PK data are missing, but evidence from critically ill adult patients makes the need for a loading dose 
in the paediatric population likely. The CHMP reviewed the currently approved SmPCs and noted that 
the recommended daily paediatric CMS doses range from 50.000 to 75.000 IU/kg/day in 3 divided 
doses in most EU member states, although one SmPC recommends doses of 150.000-225.000 
IU/kg/day. In the United States, dose recommendations range around 75.000-150.000 IU/kg/day 
(83.000 to 166.000 IU/kg/day using the alternative conversion factor). 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
In view of the dose considerations in adults, it was expected that paediatric doses used in the past 
may also be inadequately low and the CHMP reviewed additional, recently published studies in support 
of higher doses. One study by Karbuz et al, 2014, enrolled children with a median age of 17 months 
(range 3–217 months) and although small, provides interesting data as some of the patients received 
a non-EU colistin product and others an EU product, resulting in administration of a higher dose of 
colistin in those receiving the non-EU product. The median dosage in the non-EU group was reportedly 
150.000 IU/kg (69.000–168.000 IU/kg) compared to 75.000 IU/kg/day (50.000–80.000 IU/kg/day) in 
the EU group. Treatment success was observed to be higher in the high dose group (85% versus 
70%), while the incidence of reported adverse events was low. The study was too small to draw firm 
conclusions regarding the dose, however given the scarcity of the data overall, the CHMP considered 
that the efficacy and safety data supports doses superior to 75.000 IU/kg/day in paediatric patients. 
Another study by Alan et al, 2014, included 21 preterm neonates (mean gestational age 28 weeks). In 
this population, doses of 75.000-150.000 IU/kg/day were reportedly used. Clinical success rate was 
around 80%, mortality 20%. Renal impairment was observed in 20% of patients, but was reversible. 
Efforts were made to assess neurotoxicity, considered particularly relevant in this population, but data 
are essentially non-interpretable in the absence of a control group.  
The CHMP therefore concluded that the dose in paediatric populations is likely too low to achieve 
effective plasma concentrations in at least a significant proportion of cases and although the paediatric 
data is limited, the CHMP agreed on an increased dose recommendation of 75.000-150.000 IU/kg/day. 
It is expected that a loading dose is also required in the paediatric population, however no studies 
using a loading dose in children have been identified and a loading dose is not included in the US 
product information so while the magnitude of the loading dose in adults largely corresponds to the 
daily maintenance dose, and a similar principle may apply in the paediatric population, the CHMP 
concluded that the SmPC wording should be limited to a statement indicating that there is no data 
regarding the use or magnitude of a loading dose in critically ill children. Similarly, a statement was 
included to indicate that no dose recommendations are established in children with impaired renal 
function. 
2.3.4.  Efficacy of inhaled CMS 
Regarding the efficacy of inhaled CMS, the CHMP reviewed studies conducted on CMS in pneumonia as 
well as in cystic fibrosis. The CHMP noted that inhaled CMS is not currently approved in the treatment 
of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) or VAP in the EU, neither as monotherapy nor as an adjunct to 
intravenous antibiotics. Little data in support of inhaled colistin as monotherapy in these indications 
was identified and the evidence identified is considered insufficient at present. To justify the use of 
colistin in addition to systemic antibiotics, improved clinical cure rates over treatment with systemic 
antibiotics alone should be provided. In a small study, Kofetridis found no benefit in adding inhaled 
colistin to parenteral colistin when compared to parenteral colistin alone. However, a larger 
retrospective cohort study by Korbila et al found a significant difference in outcome when inhaled 
colistin was added to intravenous treatment in VAP. The magnitude of the effect is rather unexpected 
and suggests that other factors than the addition of inhaled colistin alone may be involved. Among the 
studies where colistin was used as an adjunct to intravenous treatment with parenteral colistin and or 
other antibiotics, the only randomised controlled trial investigating the benefit of adding inhaled CMS 
to systemic antibiotics (Rattanaumpawan et al) did not show improved clinical outcomes in the colistin 
arm. In another retrospective analysis in patients with VAP, Naessens et al showed higher clinical 
success rates when inhaled colistin (alone or with parenteral colistin) was compared to parenteral 
colistin alone. The CHMP concluded that the effect of adding inhaled colistin to various intravenous 
antibiotic treatment regimens cannot be reliably judged from the available data as results are 
conflicting, studies were small and had relevant design flaws. In addition, due to the retrospective, 
non-randomised nature of the trials, treatment groups are not comparable and most studies are 
thought to have used sub-optimal doses. While a beneficial effect of adding inhaled CMS to intravenous 
antibiotic agents in the treatment of HAP or VAP cannot be ruled out, the data presented is insufficient 
to conclude on such an effect with any confidence. A positive aspect is the apparent lack of a relevant 
increase in adverse events (both pulmonary and renal) with additional inhaled colistin. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
In contrast to the limited data in non-cystic fibrosis patients, there is extensive experience with inhaled 
CMS and colistin in patients with cystic fibrosis. This includes the management of early and chronic 
colonisation/ infection with P. aeruginosa. Aerosolized colistin has been successfully used to prevent 
pulmonary exacerbation and lung deterioration in patients with cystic fibrosis colonized with P. 
aeruginosa and the efficacy of colistin in these conditions is considered well established. The CHMP did 
note that comparative data suggests that inhaled tobramycin may be more effective than colistin in the 
management of cystic fibrosis patients, but considered that prescribers should have a variety of agents 
available to deal with specific organisms as appropriate and to allow alternating treatments. P. 
aeruginosa is the most prevalent infection in cystic fibrosis, with 37.5% of patients of all ages having a 
chronic infection in 2010, according to the UK cystic fibrosis trust (2010). The studies presented for 
colistin include children mostly aged 2 years or older, in line with the prevalence of P. aeruginosa 
colonisation, which increases with age. The CHMP noted that most colistin products approved in the EU 
did not include a lower age limit for inhalational therapy, which was considered acceptable. The CHMP 
took into account the IDWP recommendation to align the wording of the indication with that agreed for 
other recently approved inhalation products for cystic fibrosis and adopted the following indication: 
“For the management in adult and paediatric patients of chronic pulmonary infections due to 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis.“ 
2.3.5.  Dosage recommendations for inhaled CMS 
There are no breakpoints for inhaled/topical colistin and no PK/PD data that could contribute to dose 
considerations, instead the dose has to be established based on the available clinical data. The CHMP 
reviewed the currently authorised SmPCs and based its recommendation on the existing posology and 
longstanding experience with a combination of nebulised CMS (2 MIU tid) and oral ciprofloxacin (10–20 
mg/kg bid) used in a Danish cystic fibrosis centre for aggressive eradication therapy of lower 
respiratory tract infections by multi-drug resistant P. aeruginosa. The outcome has been very 
encouraging: chronic P. aeruginosa infection was prevented in 85% of patients treated with the 
combination compared with only 42% in the non-treated group (p<0.05) and despite of use against 
intermittent P. aeruginosa colonisation for 15 years by this group, there has been no development of 
antibiotic resistance. Nevertheless, some national guidelines make different recommendations and the 
CHMP considered that in addition to the recommended posology in adults and children above 2 years of 
age of 1-2 MIU, bid or tid, a statement that national guidelines should be adhered to should be added 
to the SmPC, “Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial 
agents”, in accordance with the European guideline taking into account the need to adapt national 
prescriptions, especially regarding the local situation.  
2.3.6.  Non-critically ill patients  
Regarding patients who are not considered critically ill, the CHMP assessed whether a loading dose is 
required in this population. Very little additional data in non-critically ill patients was identified in the 
published literature but a study in healthy Japanese patients compared the PK after a single and 
multiple bid doses of CMS and found Cmax and AUC0-12 of colistin increased by 72 % and 63 %, 
respectively, after the repeated dose. The need for a loading dose was not specifically addressed. 
Another study by Lee et al, 2013 was performed in patients with burns, a special population 
characterized by hyper-metabolic patients with physiological changes in e.g. glomerular filtration rate, 
plasma protein levels and extracellular fluid. These changes may affect drug disposition and PK 
parameters significantly. Of note, the subpopulation with relevant oedema had lower CMS plasma 
concentrations and the rate of conversion to colistin was reportedly lower in these patients. This 
suggests that a loading dose may be required in this population, although the study did not address 
this question and no firm conclusions can be drawn. The CHMP was therefore unable to conclude on 
the need of a loading dose in non-critically ill patients and the wording of the SmPC should be limited 
to a statement on the need of a loading dose in critically-ill patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.7.  Other routes of administration 
Regarding intrathecal and intraventricular administration, the CHMP reviewed the available data 
together with searches conducted by some MAHs of their pharmacovigilance and clinical trial databases 
to identify case reports relating to colistin administered via the intrathecal/intraventricular route. The 
CHMP noted that the available data demonstrates that CMS and colistin penetrate poorly into the 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), even if the meninges are inflamed. In vitro data suggest that conversion of 
CMS into colistin occurs in the CSF. Imberti et al, 2012 reported information on a total of 92 patients 
(adult and paediatric) who received intrathecal or intraventricular CMS for Gram-negative meningitis, 
frequently associated with trauma, surgery and indwelling devices. Intravenous antibiotics were usually 
administered concomitantly and 65.000 or 130.00 IU/day administered intraventricularly continuously 
resulted in CSF concentrations of colistin above the minimum MIC of 2 mg/l and with AUC0–24/MIC 
between 74 and 141 and Cmax/MIC between 45 and 72. The overall clinical and/or microbiological 
cure rate was around 90%. Adverse effects (mostly aseptic meningitis) were reported in 15% of 
patients. Another study reported that drugs administered intrathecally do not distribute uniformly in 
the CSF and that ventricular concentrations may be much lower and inadequate, while intraventricular 
administration results in high concentrations throughout the CSF. This does not explain the higher 
doses recommended for intraventricular administration. Meningitis is associated with high mortality 
and morbidity, and where caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-negative pathogens, therapeutic 
options are very limited. The failure to obtain effective CSF concentrations after intravenous 
administration of colistin makes intrathecal or intraventricular administration necessary in cases of 
central nervous system infections with multi-drug resistant pathogens. While data is limited, it appears 
that the presently approved formulation of CMS can be administered directly into the CSF. 
The IDWP agreed that there is a medical need for the intrathecal/intraventricular route of 
administration of colistin in small numbers of patients and that it should therefore be included in the 
SmPC.  
Regarding dosage, a review by Karaiskos et al, 2013 reports that the most commonly used dose was 
125.000 IU/day in adults, ranging from 20.000-500.000 IU/day. In the study by Imberti, doses ranged 
from 32.500 IU/day to 65.000 IU bid. A dose of 65.000 IU/day achieved CSF concentrations 
persistently above MIC and an AUC/MIC ratio above 50 (with a MIC of 2mg/l), however the authors 
also recommend a dose of 120.000 IU/day to compensate for losses via CSF drainage. This appears to 
be consistent with the dose recommendations of the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA). 
The IDWP suggested that the dose recommendations of the IDSA could be used for the intraventricular 
route and that the intrathecal route dose should be stated not to exceed this dose. Based on the 
available data and the IDWP advice, the CHMP therefore concluded that 125.000 IU/day is the most 
appropriate dose in adults for intraventricular administration.  
Regarding paediatric patients, the study by Karaiskos et al reported doses for nine patients, ranging 
from 2.000 to 125.000 IU/kg. This included one neonate who received a total daily dose of 20.000 IU 
and four children below 1 year, of whom three received a weight-based dose. Assuming these three 
children were of normal weight, their daily dose would also have been around 20.000 IU in total. The 
fourth child (aged 2 months) received a total daily dose of up to 125.000 IU. The remaining four 
children aged 3-9 years received 50.000 to 125.000 IU/day. The IDWP considered that the available 
data does not allow the definition of dose recommendations for children, who have smaller 
cerebrospinal fluid volumes. The CHMP agreed that the small number of cases and the wide range of 
doses used prevents the determination of a paediatric dose although based on anatomical and 
physiological considerations, it could be assumed that the dose at least in adolescents should be the 
same as in adults. 
Because the current pharmaceutical formulation of all products included in this procedure is suitable for 
these routes of administration (based on the pH, absence of preservatives and antioxidant and 
administered volume), it was agreed that recommendations for intraventricular and intrathecal 
administration should be reflected in section 4.2 of the SmPC. Due to the paucity of data to support 
these recommendations and in line with IDWP advice, the CHMP agreed to include a cross-reference in 
section 4.2 to a warning in section 4.4. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 17 
 
 
 
 
 
No data on the use of CMS by injection were made available, as all clinical studies reviewed used CMS 
administered as an infusion. The CHMP considers that information on the injection route of 
administration can be retained in the SmPCs where it is already included. Similarly, data on the use of 
CMS with a TIVAD (totally implantable venous access device) were not made available during the 
procedure and the use of these devices was therefore not reviewed. The CHMP considers that 
information on the use of TIVADs can be retained in the SmPCs where it is already included. 
2.4.  Safety data 
As part of the benefit-risk review, the CHMP also reviewed the safety profile of colistin and identified a 
number of warnings and precautions and a number of statements on interactions to be harmonised 
and implemented in section 4.4 and 4.5 respectively of the SmPC of all products for intravenous use. 
Nephrotoxicity is the major safety concern relating to colistin and almost every clinical study 
investigating intravenous colistin reports occurrences of renal impairment during treatment. In clinical 
studies focusing on efficacy, the reported proportion of patients with renal impairment ranges between 
0-50%. The differences may reflect different definitions of the interpretation of renal impairment, 
differences in population enrolled and investigator judgment regarding causality. The Hartzell et al, 
2009 study, which was designed to investigate the effect of colistin on kidney function, found that the 
incidence of acute renal failure, defined by the RIFLE criteria (risk, injury, failure, loss, and end-stage 
kidney disease), in 66 patients was 45%, and that 21% of patients discontinued therapy because of 
nephrotoxicity. The authors argue that because of their cohort of patients with few co-morbidities, the 
results are reflective of the direct nephrotoxic effects of CMS. Sorli et al, 2011 found a similar rate of 
renal impairment in their study. Two other studies found an incidence of acute kidney injury of 40% in 
a population of critically ill patients. Falagas et al, 2005 and Hartzell et al found a correlation between 
cumulative dose, duration of therapy (> 14 day) and nephrotoxicity, an effect first seen by Koch-
Weber, 1970. Rocco et al, 2013 did not see such an effect after 8 days of CMS treatment, which 
suggests that treatment durations of 14 days or more should be avoided where possible. 
However, the CHMP noted that not all studies confirm these findings. Dalfino et al, 2012 did not see a 
correlation between daily dose, duration or cumulative dose in their small patient population. It is not 
clear if the longer dose interval may have reduced acute kidney injury in this study. The authors 
comment that this would be in line with the recent hypothesis by Sorli et al which attributes CMS 
nephrotoxicity to the minimum plasma concentration of colistin, as seen with aminoglycosides. Sorli et 
al consider Cmin monitoring to be helpful in the management of patients to prevent renal failure 
although it is not clear what Cmin range should be targeted. There appears to be insufficient data at 
present to make a recommendation. 
Regarding the possible mechanisms for nephrotoxicity, a number of theories are described in the 
literature. One study suggests that the D-amino acid and fatty acid molecules of the structure of 
polymyxins have been associated with the development of nephrotoxicity. Another study found 
evidence that caspase-mediated apoptosis may be involved. The cationic nature of colistin and 
potential accumulation in proximal tubular cells have also been implicated and several sensitive 
biomarkers of renal injury and histopathological changes point towards proximal tubular damage. Ma 
et al, 2009 reported net tubular reabsorption of colistin and suggested that renal accumulation of 
colistin may occur. Suzuki et al, 2013 reported the endocytosis receptor megalin, expressed in renal 
proximal tubules, to be involved with the renal accumulation and nephrotoxicity of colistin. Co-
administration with other megalin ligands (e.g. aminoglycosides) may hence lead to increased toxicity. 
Two recent papers by Yousef et al, both 2011, on the protective effects of antioxidants on the kidneys 
of rats when treated with colistin have hypothesised that the tubular toxicity is caused by oxidative 
stress induced by colistin. Vaara et al, 2008, postulate that like aminoglycosides, polymyxins are 
thought to cause damage to the kidneys at the level of the proximal tubules, where both classes of 
drugs are thought to be extensively reabsorbed via the endocytic receptor protein megalin. Data in 
rats indicate that colistin may accumulate in the kidneys. An alternative explanation may be renal 
metabolism. Colistin is thought to cause tubular damage by increasing the membrane permeability of 
epithelial cells, leading to leakage of contents and cell death. This effect has been related to drug 
concentration and treatment duration, with a significant relationship between creatinine increase and 
cumulative dose of CMS (Falagas et al, 2005). 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 18 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP agreed that the nephrotoxic effects of colistin are well established, but that the causative 
mechanism is not clearly established. Due to the differences in study design, population and definition 
of renal injury/ impairment, the extent and frequency of renal impairment is difficult to assess and 
most enrolled patients are critically ill from severe infections and have a high risk of renal damage 
from the presenting condition. Concomitant treatments including nephrotoxic antibiotics further 
contribute to this risk. The CHMP noted that renal impairment was in most cases found to be reversible 
and that although discontinuation of treatment is reported in a number of cases, RRT was not required. 
Nevertheless, colistin therapy is associated with a risk of renal impairment and acute kidney injury and 
the CHMP therefore considered it appropriate to include a warning regarding the potential for 
nephrotoxicity of colistin and the need for dose adjustments in renal impairment in the SmPC, together 
with a caution regarding co-administration with other nephrotoxic drugs. A statement regarding the 
potential for accumulation in the kidney was also added. The final agreed wording is presented in 
Annex III. 
Another frequently reported adverse event is neurotoxicity, although this was not observed to be a 
major problem in most studies reviewed. Falagas et al conclude from their review that the neurotoxic 
effects of polymyxins are usually mild and resolve after prompt discontinuation of the antibiotics. 
Neurological adverse events were more commonly seen in a study in cystic fibrosis patients, indicating 
that such events may be masked in the critically ill patients. Cases of apnoea have been reported in 
the past, and all the reported cases seem to have occurred after intramuscular administration although 
it is not understood why the route of administration would be of significance.  
Other adverse events reported also seem to largely correspond with what is already included in the 
SmPCs and include hypersensitivity reactions, rash, urticaria, generalized itching, fever, gastro-
intestinal disorders, and pseudomembranous colitis. The incidence of allergic reactions due to colistin 
use has been reported to be about 2%. Bronchoconstriction and chest tightness are reported as rare 
complications when colistin is used by inhalation route. Nebulized CMS can cause bronchoconstriction 
even in patients with no history of asthma. Local pulmonary toxicity seems to be associated primarily 
with colistin rather than CMS, as illustrated by a case report where CMS was prepared about 24 hours 
before administration by nebulisation. Within hours of administration, the patient developed severe 
respiratory distress and acute lung injury, thought to be due to the in vitro conversion of CMS to 
colistin, resulting in colistin induced toxicity. There is no data on the effects of inhaled CMS on other 
organ systems, e.g. on renal function or neurotoxicity. In view of the low plasma concentrations 
usually seen after inhaled administration, any dose dependent adverse events are expected to occur at 
considerably lower frequency than those seen after parenteral administration. 
In addition, the CHMP noted that CMS is known to reduce the presynaptic release of acetyl-choline at 
the neuro-muscular junction, which presents a serious risk in patients with myasthenia gravis. 
However, given the seriousness of the conditions for which CMS is indicated, the CHMP considered that 
its use in patients with myasthenia gravis should not be contraindicated but that instead a warning 
should be added to section 4.4, advising the use of CMS with great caution and only if absolutely 
needed. 
In conclusion, the CHMP was of the opinion that colistin has been shown to cause renal impairment and 
acute renal injuries, and to a lesser extent neurotoxicity and other adverse events, which may be 
related to cumulative doses. The frequency of adverse events may be underestimated due to small 
study sizes and the likely masking of such effects in a population consisting mainly of critically ill 
patients, many of whom will be sedated and/ or ventilated. Nevertheless, the CHMP considered that 
these risks must be balanced against the risk of the underlying disease and the high mortality from the 
treated conditions. The risks can be mitigated by appropriate statements in section 4.4 and 4.5 of the 
SmPC, including warnings advising against the concurrent administration of nephrotoxic and/or 
neurotoxic drugs as well as recommendations to perform regular renal function monitoring, mentioning 
the potential correlation with cumulative dose and treatment duration. The final agreed wording is 
presented in Annex III. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 19 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.  Consultation of the PKWP and the IDWP 
In the context of the procedure, the CHMP consulted the PKWP to provide support to the CHMP 
assessment. The PKWP reviewed the population PK data on which the dose proposals were based and 
the additional performed simulations based on data from the published literature. It was noted that the 
PK data comes from a number of sources and is often limited to PK parameters rather than full profiles. 
In addition, the assay methodology limits the usefulness of some of the data, since the analytical 
assays used to determine the drug levels did not distinguish between the active drug and the prodrug 
and thus could not be used to determine whether ex vivo conversion was occurring. The PKWP 
therefore deemed the simulations performed by the CHMP to be useful for the understanding of the 
exposure and potential PK differences in different patient populations but considered that the degree to 
which these simulations can be considered ‘qualified’ is limited by the data. In addition the simulations 
do not give any information on the variability in the PK of this drug. The advice of the PKWP was taken 
into account by the CHMP when revising the SmPC wording. 
The CHMP also consulted the IDWP to provide support to the CHMP assessment. Regarding the 
acceptability of the available PK/PD data as supportive of the dose recommendations proposed by the 
CHMP, the IDWP recognised the limitations of the PK/PD data but agreed that the data could be taken 
into account to determine dosage recommendations, including for loading and maintenance doses and 
in the relevant patient populations. The advice of the IDWP was taken into account by the CHMP when 
revising the SmPC wording. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP, having considered the available data, is of the opinion that no additional pharmacovigilance 
activity, nor any risk minimisation activities are required beyond the recommended changes to the 
product information. 
2.7.  Changes to the product information 
Having reviewed all available data, the CHMP considered that a number of changes are needed to the 
product information of CMS products for parenteral and inhaled use. In particular, the wording of the 
indications was revised and aligned with the existing clinical experience and current guidelines. The 
posology and method of administration section was also significantly revised to provide appropriate 
and up-to-date guidance on the use of colistin to prescribers. The available data confirms that colistin 
exhibits nephrotoxic and neurotoxic properties but these risks can be mitigated by appropriate 
statements in section 4.4 and 4.5 of the SmPC, including warnings against concurrent administration of 
nephrotoxic and/or neurotoxic drugs and recommendations for regular renal function monitoring. 
Additional changes were also agreed to sections 4.4 and 4.5 to update the information on warnings 
and interactions observed with colistin therapy. Finally, extensive revisions were made to sections 5.1 
and 5.2 to reflect current pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data. The CHMP also agreed 
corresponding changes to the package leaflets. 
The CHMP was of the view that the product information of the centrally-authorised product Colobreath 
is up-to-date, with no need for revision. 
2.8.  Benefit-risk balance  
Having reviewed all available data, the CHMP considered that CMS and colistin represent a crucial 
therapeutic option in the armamentarium available to prescribers in the context of the treatment of 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 20 
 
 
 
 
 
infections caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-negative pathogens. A large number of PK/PD studies 
were reviewed together with data from clinical experience and the CHMP considered the available data 
to be sufficient to support revisions of the indication for both parenteral and inhalation use products, in 
line with clinical experience and current therapeutic guidelines. It was agreed that colistin can be used 
without age restrictions, but only for the treatment of serious infections. A key concern is to maintain 
the efficacy of colistin against multi-drug resistant pathogens and to avoid the selection of resistance 
arising from monotherapy and the CHMP therefore agreed recommendations for the co-administration 
of parenteral colistin with other antibiotics. The posology and method of administration section was 
also revised in its entirety, for all patient subpopulations, in order to define the optimal treatment 
regimens for achieving plasma concentrations above the critical minimal inhibitory concentrations. In 
particular, the CHMP considered that a loading dose should be administered, to ensure plasma 
concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration from the very first administration. 
However, data was extremely limited in certain patient populations and as a result, no firm 
recommendations could be made for patients with renal impairment, on renal replacement therapy or 
with hepatic impairment. Data was also particularly limited for paediatric patients. 
The CHMP reviewed the optimal way of expressing the strength and dose of polymyxin-containing 
products and was of the opinion that given the established use of international units (IU) in EU clinical 
practice and in the European and British Pharmacopoeia, the EU product information for CMS should 
continue to be expressed in IU. However, the CHMP introduced a dose content conversion table 
between CMS expressed in IU, CMS expressed in mg and CBA expressed in mg, to raise awareness of 
the different ways of expressing the strength and dose and to help prescribers who obtain additional 
information from the literature. 
The CHMP also reviewed the data on adverse events observed with the use of colistin and agreed that 
the use of colistin for parenteral use is associated with nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity but considered 
that these risks must be balanced against the risk of the underlying disease and the high mortality 
from the treated conditions and that they can be satisfactorily mitigated by statements in the SmPC. 
Finally, extensive revisions were made to reflect current pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, 
including an update of the EUCAST breakpoints and the list of susceptible species. Corresponding 
changes were made to the package leaflets. 
In conclusion, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk of the polymyxin-based products 
included in the scope of this procedure remains positive, provided that changes, as applicable, are 
made to their product information as set out in Annex III to the opinion. Regarding the centrally-
authorised product Colobreathe, the CHMP considered the product information to be up to date, with 
no need for revision. 
Therefore, for the medicinal products referred to in Annex I, the CHMP recommended the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation, for which the relevant sections of the summary of product 
characteristics and package leaflet are set out in Annex III to the opinion. For Colobreathe, referred to 
in Annex A, the CHMP recommended the maintenance of the marketing authorisation, without any 
variations to the term of the marketing authorisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 21 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Conclusion and grounds for opinion 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the existing preclinical and clinical data and the product information including the indications, 
dosage recommendations and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information for 
polymyxin-based products in the EU are not up to date or based on robust data, as highlighted 
by recent reports of suboptimal efficacy and the emergence of colistin resistance, 
the CHMP carried out a benefit-risk evaluation of polymyxin-based products under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, reviewing all available data, including responses submitted by the 
marketing authorisation holders during the procedure and recommendations from the 
Pharmacokinetics and the Infectious Disease working parties, 
the CHMP considered that colistimethate sodium and colistin represent a crucial therapeutic 
option in the context of the treatment of infections caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-
negative pathogens, 
the CHMP considered that the dose and strength of polymyxin-based products should continue 
to be expressed in international units, 
the CHMP considered the available data to be sufficient to support revisions of the indication 
for both parenteral use and inhalation use medicinal products, in line with clinical experience 
and current therapeutic guidelines  
the CHMP considered that the risks of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity observed with colistin 
for parenteral use should be balanced against the risk of the underlying disease and the high 
mortality from the treated conditions and that it can be satisfactorily mitigated by warnings 
and recommendations in the SmPC, 
the CHMP made extensive revisions to the SmPC to reflect current pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic data, including an update of the EUCAST breakpoints and the list of 
susceptible species, 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the polymyxin-based 
products included in the scope of this procedure remains positive under normal conditions of use, 
taking into account the agreed changes to the product information, as applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/707128/2014  
Page 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
