Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for maintenance of the marketing 
authorisations or the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations, as relevant 
19 
Scientific conclusions 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation of polymyxin-based products (see Annex A and 
Annex I) 
The emergence of multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria that cause nosocomial infections is a 
growing problem worldwide. Limited therapeutic options have led to an increased clinical use of 
colistin, a polymyxin antibiotic developed over 50 years ago and which has retained activity against a 
number of multi-drug resistant pathogens. This is possibly because of its limited parenteral use, due to 
the existence of safer, less neurotoxic and nephrotoxic therapeutic options. As a consequence, the 
existing preclinical and clinical pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) information is limited, 
the product information has not been significantly updated over the years and the dosage regimens in 
use today are not based upon robust PK/PD data. Indeed, recent clinical experience and the medical 
literature point to the urgent need to update the product information, in particular the indications, the 
dosage recommendations and the PK/PD information, as highlighted by recent reports of suboptimal 
efficacy and the emergence of colistin resistance, in particular when used as monotherapy. In addition, 
differences across the world in the expression of the strength and dose of colistin products may result 
in medication errors and put patients at risk. 
Polymyxins are currently listed among the critically important antimicrobials and in view of the 
importance of ensuring the availability of efficacious and safe antibiotics in order to efficiently respond 
to the threat posed by the spread of antimicrobial resistance, the European Commission initiated a 
procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC on 16 September 2013, requesting the CHMP to 
give its opinion on the benefit-risk of polymyxin-based products and on the need for regulatory 
measures.  
The CHMP decided that the medical need was greatest for high dose products for parenteral and 
inhalation use and that the scope of the review should be limited to these medicinal products. The 
scope of the procedure includes nationally-authorised medicinal products and a centrally-authorised 
medicinal product, Colobreathe (dry powder for inhalation), authorised in February 2012. In its 
assessment, the CHMP reviewed all available data, including submissions by marketing authorisation 
holders during the procedure and consulted the Pharmacokinetics Working Party and the Infectious 
Disease Working Party. 
Polymyxins are a group of naturally occurring antibiotics produced by the bacterium Paenibacillus 
polymyxa. Only polymyxin E (referred to as colistin) is approved for clinical use in the EU. Two forms 
of colistin are used clinically: colistin sulphate and its microbiologically inactive prodrug, colistimethate 
sodium (CMS). Colistin has a relatively high level of toxicity associated with parenteral administration 
and CMS was therefore developed for parenteral and inhalation use. CMS for parenteral use is 
indicated for the treatment of serious infections caused by Gram-negative pathogens and CMS for 
inhalation use is indicated for the management of chronic pulmonary infections due to P. aeruginosa in 
patients with cystic fibrosis. 
Having reviewed all available data, the CHMP considered that CMS and colistin represent a crucial 
therapeutic option in the armamentarium available to prescribers in the context of the treatment of 
infections caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-negative pathogens. A large number of PK/PD studies 
were reviewed together with data from clinical experience and the CHMP considered the available data 
to be sufficient to support revisions of the indication for both parenteral and inhalation use products, in 
line with clinical experience and current therapeutic guidelines. It was agreed that colistin can be used 
without age restrictions, but only for the treatment of serious infections. A key concern is to maintain 
the efficacy of colistin against multi-drug resistant pathogens and to avoid the selection of resistance 
arising from monotherapy and the CHMP therefore agreed recommendations for the co-administration 
of parenteral colistin with other antibiotics. The posology and method of administration section was 
also revised in its entirety, for all patient subpopulations, in order to define the optimal treatment 
regimens for achieving plasma concentrations above the critical minimal inhibitory concentrations. In 
particular, the CHMP considered that a loading dose should be administered, to ensure plasma 
concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration from the very first administration. 
However, data was extremely limited in certain patient populations and as a result, no firm 
recommendations could be made for patients with renal impairment, on renal replacement therapy or 
with hepatic impairment. Data was also particularly limited for paediatric patients. 
The CHMP reviewed the optimal way of expressing the strength and dose of polymyxin-containing 
products and was of the opinion that given the established use of international units (IU) in EU clinical 
practice and in the European and British Pharmacopoeia, the EU product information for CMS should 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
continue to be expressed in IU. However, the CHMP introduced a dose content conversion table 
between CMS expressed in IU, CMS expressed in mg and CBA expressed in mg, to raise awareness of 
the different ways of expressing the strength and dose and to help prescribers who obtain additional 
information from the literature. 
The CHMP also reviewed the data on adverse events observed with the use of colistin and agreed that 
the use of colistin for parenteral use is associated with nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity but considered 
that these risks must be balanced against the risk of the underlying disease and the high mortality 
from the treated conditions and that they can be satisfactorily mitigated by statements in the SmPC. 
Finally, extensive revisions were made to reflect current pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, 
including an update of the EUCAST breakpoints and the list of susceptible species. Corresponding 
changes were made to the package leaflets. 
In conclusion, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk of the polymyxin-based products 
included in the scope of this procedure remains positive, provided that changes, as applicable, are 
made to their product information as set out in Annex III to the opinion. Regarding the centrally-
authorised product Colobreathe, the CHMP considered the product information to be up to date, with 
no need for revision. 
Therefore, for the medicinal products referred to in Annex I, the CHMP recommended the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation, for which the relevant sections of the summary of product 
characteristics and package leaflet are set out in Annex III to the opinion. For Colobreathe, referred to 
in Annex A, the CHMP recommended the maintenance of the marketing authorisation, without any 
variations to the term of the marketing authorisation. 
Grounds for the maintenance and the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation, 
as applicable 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the existing preclinical and clinical data and the product information including the indications, 
dosage recommendations and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information for 
polymyxin-based products in the EU are not up to date or based on robust data, as highlighted 
by recent reports of suboptimal efficacy and the emergence of colistin resistance, 
the CHMP carried out a benefit-risk evaluation of polymyxin-based products under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, reviewing all available data, including responses submitted by the 
marketing authorisation holders during the procedure and recommendations from the 
Pharmacokinetics and the Infectious Disease working parties, 
the CHMP considered that colistimethate sodium and colistin represent a crucial therapeutic 
option in the context of the treatment of infections caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-
negative pathogens, 
the CHMP considered that the dose and strength of polymyxin-based products should continue 
to be expressed in international units, 
the CHMP considered the available data to be sufficient to support revisions of the indication 
for both parenteral use and inhalation use medicinal products, in line with clinical experience 
and current therapeutic guidelines  
the CHMP considered that the risks of nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity observed with colistin 
for parenteral use should be balanced against the risk of the underlying disease and the high 
mortality from the treated conditions and that it can be satisfactorily mitigated by warnings 
and recommendations in the SmPC, 
the CHMP made extensive revisions to the SmPC to reflect current pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic data, including an update of the EUCAST breakpoints and the list of 
susceptible species, 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit-risk balance of the polymyxin-based 
products included in the scope of this procedure remains positive under normal conditions of use, 
taking into account the agreed changes to the product information, as applicable. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
