EMA/733068/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000190 
EPAR summary for the public 
Combivir 
lamivudine / zidovudine 
This is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Combivir. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Combivir. 
For practical information about using Combivir, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Combivir and what is it used for? 
Combivir, an antiviral medicine, is used in combination with at least one other antiviral medicine to 
treat patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Combivir contains two active substances, lamivudine and zidovudine. 
How is Combivir used? 
Combivir is available as tablets containing lamivudine 150 mg and zidovudine 300 mg. 
The recommended dose of Combivir for patients over 12 years of age who weigh at least 30 kg is one 
tablet taken twice a day. In children (below 12 years of age) weighing between 14 and 30 kg, the dose 
depends on their weight. Children weighing less than 14 kg will need to use separate oral solutions 
containing lamivudine and zidovudine. Children taking Combivir should be closely monitored and the 
doctor may need to adjust the dose in case of side effects on their digestive system. 
Patients who cannot swallow tablets may crush the tablets, adding the powder to a small amount of 
food or drink and swallowing it immediately. If patients need to stop taking lamivudine or zidovudine, 
or need to take different doses because of problems with their kidneys, liver or blood, they will need to 
take medicines containing lamivudine or zidovudine separately. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Treatment with Combivir should be started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV 
infection. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Combivir work? 
Both active substances in Combivir, lamivudine and zidovudine, are nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (NRTIs). They work in similar ways by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase, an 
enzyme made by the HIV virus that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has infected.  
Combivir, taken in combination with at least one other antiviral medicine, reduces the amount of HIV 
in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Combivir does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold 
off damage to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with 
AIDS. 
Both active substances have been available in the EU for a number of years: lamivudine has been 
authorised as Epivir since 1996 and zidovudine has been available in the EU since the mid-1980s. 
What benefit of Combivir have been shown in studies? 
Because lamivudine and zidovudine have been available in the EU for a number of years, the company 
presented information from earlier studies of the two substances taken together. The studies showed 
that the active substances taken together could reduce viral loads (the level of HIV in the blood) and 
allow CD4 cell counts to rise after up to one year of treatment. CD4 cells (also called CD4 T cells) are 
white blood cells that are important for fighting infections, but they are killed by HIV. 
The company also compared Combivir to separate tablets of lamivudine and zidovudine in 75 patients 
aged over 12 years who had not taken treatment for HIV infection before. The main measures of 
effectiveness were the change in viral load and CD4 cell counts in the blood. Patients taking Combivir 
and those taking the two active substances separately had similar falls in viral load. After 12 weeks, 
the viral load had fallen by more than 95%. The two groups also had similar rises in CD4 cell counts. 
The company also compared how the body absorbed the Combivir combination tablet and the separate 
tablets. Combivir was absorbed in the same way as the separate tablets. 
To support its recommendations for Combivir doses in children, the company presented studies of the 
levels of lamivudine and zidovudine in the blood of children taking the medicines separately. It also 
presented information on the predicted blood levels of the two substances in children taking the two 
substances combined in one tablet. The recommended doses of Combivir in children produced similar 
levels of the two active substances as in older patients. 
What are the risks associated with Combivir? 
The most common side effects with Combivir (which may affect more than 1 patient in 10) are 
diarrhoea and nausea (feeling sick).  
Combivir must not be used by patients with low neutrophil counts (a type of white blood cell) or 
anaemia (low red blood cell counts). For the full list of all the side effects of Combivir and restrictions 
on its use, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Combivir approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that Combivir’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. The 
Combivir  
EMA/733068/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP considered that combining the active ingredients in a single tablet may be of advantage because 
it can improve how well patients stick to the prescribed treatment and this can help to prevent HIV 
becoming resistant to treatment. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Combivir? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Combivir have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Combivir 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Combivir on 
18 March 1998.  
The full EPAR for Combivir can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Combivir, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016.  
Combivir  
EMA/733068/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
