SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Combivir. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 30 July 2005. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8b. 
1. 
Introduction 
Current  available  therapy  options  for  the  treatment  of  Human  Immunodeficiency  Virus  (HIV) 
infection comprises four different mechanistic classes of compounds: nucleoside/nucleotide analogue 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), protease inhibitors (PIs), non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors  (NNRTIs)  and  fusion  inhibitors.  The  first  category  of  agents,  the  NRTIs,  acts  at  an  early 
stage in the HIV life cycle by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase. This enzyme is essential 
for the conversion of viral RNA to proviral DNA, thus allowing  integration into host cell DNA and 
subsequent viral replication. Combination therapy, especially triple regimens, is considered to be the 
standard  of  care  of  HIV  infected  patients.  These  therapeutic  regimens  result  however  in  a  great 
number of daily doses of tablets/capsules.  
Combivir was the first fixed dose combination containing two known antiretroviral agents belonging 
to  the  RT  inhibitors  class.  This  medicinal  product  containing  150  mg  of  lamivudine  and  300  mg 
zidovudine  has  been  developed  as  an  oral  therapy  (tablet)  for  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection  in 
adults.  
Individual formulations of lamivudine (150 mg tablets) and zidovudine (300 mg tablets) have already 
been granted a Marketing Authorisation for the treatment of HIV-1 infection. Zidovudine was the first 
compound to be licensed for the treatment of HIV. 
The  development  of  this  fixed  dose  combination  aims  to  reduce  the  number  of  daily  tablets,  and 
therefore enhance the compliance therapy and thereby minimising the risk of emergence of resistance. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Combivir  is  a  fixed  dose  combination  formulation  presented  as  a  film  coated  capsule-shaped  tablet 
containing two active substances: 150 mg lamivudine and 300 mg zidovudine. Individual formulations 
of lamivudine 150 mg and zidovudine 300 mg tablets have already been licensed. 
Other  ingredients  include  microcrystalline  cellulose,  sodium  starch  glycolate,  magnesium  stearate, 
colloidal silicon dioxide and excipients commonly used in film-coatings. The  film coating chosen is 
the same Opadry White, already used for the approved lamivudine 150 mg tablet formulation. 
The containers are opaque polyvinyl chloride foil blister units containing 10 tablets per blister card (6 
blister  cards  per  carton)  and  white  HDPE  bottles  with  child  resistant/tamper  evident  closures 
containing 60 tablets. 
The composition and shape of the fixed dose combination tablet used in clinical studies are similar to 
the ones of the medicinal product intended to be marketed. The fixed dose combination tablet has been 
demonstrated  to  be  bioequivalent  to  the  co-administration  of  two  individual  marketed  medicinal 
products as described in section III.4 of this document. 
The pharmaceutical development of this formulation was based on the existing experience of the two 
individual marketed formulation tablets, lamivudine 150 mg and zidovudine 300 mg tablets. The aim 
for  the  development  of  these  fixed  dose  combination  tablets  was  to  provide  the  association  of  two 
known  active  substances,  lamivudine  and  zidovudine,  in  an  easy  swallowed  formula  to  help  dosing 
compliance and increase convenience in administration for patients. The choice of the excipients was 
considered  adequate.  Lamivudine/zidovudine  fixed  dose  combination  tablets  were  formulated  to 
provide  rapid  release  of  the  two  active  substances  as  confirmed  by  the  dissolution  tests.  The 
compatibility  between  the  two  active  substances  as  well  as  the  compatibility  between  both  active 
substances with the excipients has been documented for several conditions. 
1/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Method of preparation 
Lamivudine/zidovudine  tablets  are  manufactured  using  traditional  methods  involving  blending, 
compression  and  film  coating.  The  in-process  controls  carried  out  on  tablet  cores  were  considered 
adequate  to  ensure  batch  to  batch  reproducibility  and  compliance  with  standard  specifications. 
Validation  data  presented  on  three  batches  were  sufficient  to  demonstrate  the  consistency  of  the 
process and the quality of the product. 
Control of starting materials 
Lamivudine and zidovudine are the same active substances as those used in the previously approved 
marketed medicinal products containing the individual drug substances. The quality of the two active 
substances is therefore well established. 
Lamivudine  is  (2R,  cis)-4-amino-1-(2hydroxymethyl  1,3-oxathiolan-5S-yl)-(1H)-pyrimidin2-one  and 
has not yet been described in any pharmacopoeia. The manufacture of lamivudine involves multistep 
synthesis,  which  includes  racemate  separation.  Quality  specifications  of  the  starting  materials  and 
intermediate stages of synthesis were sufficiently validated and adequate to control the quality of the 
active substance. 
Zidovudine  (3’azido-3’deoxythimidine)  is  controlled  according  to  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (Ph. 
Eur.) requirements.  
All the excipients in the tablet core are described in the monographs of the Ph. Eur. The film-coat is an 
Opadry, whose components are described in the Ph. Eur. 
Standard  packaging  materials,  e.g.  HDPE  and  PVC,  were  shown  to  comply  either  with  the  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements or the requirements for materials used in contact with food.  
Control tests on the finished medicinal product 
Tablets are tested according to standard methods. The specifications and routine tests at release and at 
the  end  of  shelf  life  for  the  finished  product  are  acceptable.  Test  procedures  for  the  control  of  the 
finished product are sufficiently validated. 
Stability 
Stability  data  of  lamivudine  up  to  18  months  met  specifications  at  all  storage  conditions,  and  no 
degradation was observed.  
Stability  tests  for  up  to  36  months  were  presented  for  two  batches  of  zidovudine.  No  significant 
increase in drug-related substances was observed. The samples that show signs of deterioration were 
those exposed to light, indicating the need for protection from light.  
Finished  product  stability  tests  were  carried  out  on  batches  packed  in  the  proposed  commercial 
containers.  The  stability  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  support  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage 
conditions defined in the SPC. 
Overall,  apart  from  clarifications  to  be  submitted  by  the  applicant,  the  chemical  and  pharmaceutical 
data submitted were found acceptable to ensure the quality of Combivir film coated tablets.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Both lamivudine and zidovudine are pyrimidine nucleoside analogues. After intracellular uptake, both 
compounds  are  sequentially  phosphorylated  by  host  cell  intracellular  kinases  to  their  respective 
5’-triphosphates  (TP).  Thereafter,  the  monophosphate  of  respective  compound  is  inserted  into  the 
DNA  transcript  by  the  viral  enzyme  reverse  transcriptase  (RT).  However,  due  to  lack  of  a  3’-OH 
group, the nucleic acid strand extension is terminated. Both compounds are also competitive inhibitors 
of the viral RT. Their specific  activity against HIV is mainly related to their selectivity for dividing 
cells and their high affinity for viral RT. Furthermore, mammalian DNA-dependent DNA polymerases 
are  hardly  inhibited  by  zidovudine-TP.  In  the  case  of  lamivudine-TP,  the  eukaryotic  DNA 
2/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
polymerases  can  repair  a  falsely  inserted  nucleoside  through  their  simultaneously  expressed 
3’,5’-exonuclease  function,  but  the  insertion  of  the  defective  base  in  the  RT-DNA  transcript  is 
virtually irreversible. 
Lamivudine inhibited viral replication of several laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and 
HIV-2 in different monocyte or lymphocyte cell lines or fresh human peripheral blood lymphocytes. 
The IC50 (concentration leading to 50% inhibition of viral replication) ranged from 2 nM to 15 µM. In 
addition, lamivudine-TP inhibited viral RT with a Ki value of 10-12 µM. Depending on the host cell 
lines  and  wild-type  virus  strains  used,  IC50s  for  zidovudine  ranged  from  1-350  nM.  Zidovudine-TP 
was also a potent inhibitor of HIV RT, with a Ki of 40 nM. For both compounds, antiviral activity was 
seen at lower concentrations than those required for RT inhibition, suggesting that chain termination is 
the main mechanism of action. 
Antiviral  activity  of  the  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  combination  was  studied  in  a  number  of  HIV-1 
and  HIV-2  sub-strains  in  different  host  cell  lines  to  investigate  synergistic,  additive  or  antagonistic 
effects  as  well  as  cytotoxic  activity.  These  studies  indicated  additive  to  synergistic  effects  of  the 
combination.  
The  in  vitro  intracellular  half-lives  of  lamivudine  TP  and  zidovudine  TP  were  10-15  h  and  3  h, 
respectively.  Antiviral  effects  have  been  demonstrated  at  extracellular  concentrations  <0.5  µM  for 
zidovudine and 10 nM for lamivudine. The extent of lamivudine triphosphorylation was not impaired 
by  the  presence  of  zidovudine  concentrations  of  5  to  50  µM.  Effects  of  lamivudine  on  zidovudine 
triphosphorylation have not been reported.  
Lamivudine  had  no  activity  against  a  number  of  other  pathogens  [RNA  and  DNA  viruses  (except 
hepatitis) bacteria and fungi] normally occurring during HIV disease, indicating anti-HIV specificity. 
In  vitro  studies  of  lamivudine  given  in  combination  with  other  antimicrobial  agents  showed  that 
ganciclovir  reduced  the  antiviral  activity  (IC50)  of  lamivudine  by  a  factor  of  2-3,  which  is  within 
experimental variation. 
Data with either compound from in vivo animal models of HIV infections were limited and of doubtful 
validity. 
Cytotoxicity 
Using different in vitro cell systems (e.g. human erythroid precursors, human bone marrow progenitor 
cells),  LC50s  (concentration  reducing  cell  viability  by  50%)  for  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  were 
>30 µM and >5 µM respectively. Depending on the test systems used, the therapeutic index (i.e. the 
ratio  between  LC50  and  IC50)  was  in  general  large  for  both  compounds.  In  various  studies  the 
cytotoxicity was in general additive.  
Resistance 
HIV-1 resistance to lamivudine involves the development of a M184V amino acid change close to the 
active  site  of  the  viral  reverse  transcriptase  (RT).  This  variant  arises  both  in  vitro  and  in  HIV-1 
infected  patients  treated  with  lamivudine-containing  antiretroviral  therapy.    M184V  mutants  display 
greatly reduced susceptibility to lamivudine and show diminished viral replicative capacity in vitro. In 
vitro  studies  indicate  that  zidovudine-resistant  virus  isolates  can  become  zidovudine  sensitive  when 
they simultaneously acquire resistance to lamivudine.  The clinical relevance of such findings remains, 
however, not well defined. 
Cross-resistance  conferred  by  the  M184V  RT  is  limited  within  the  nucleoside  inhibitor  class  of 
antiretroviral  agents.  Zidovudine  and  stavudine  maintain  their  antiretroviral  activities  against 
lamivudine-resistant  HIV-1.  Abacavir  maintains  its  antiretroviral  activities  against  lamivudine-
resistant  HIV-1  harbouring  only  the  M184V  mutation.    The  M184V  RT  mutant  shows  a  <4-fold 
decrease  in  susceptibility  to  didanosine  and  zalcitabine;  the  clinical  significance  of  these  findings  is 
unknown. In vitro susceptibility testing has not been standardised and results may vary according to 
methodological factors. 
3/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Secondary pharmacology 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  with  lamivudine  showed  no  major  effects  on  cardiovascular  or 
respiratory  parameters  or  on  intestinal  transport.  Zidovudine  was  also  well  tolerated  in  studies 
addressing  Central  Nervous  System,  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and  diuretic  parameters.  Safety 
pharmacology studies with the combination have not been performed. This was considered acceptable 
since there were no indications of pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic interactions 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  both  compounds  have  been  studied  separately  in  the  main  species 
used in the preclinical testing programmes. In both cases, protein binding was moderate to low in all 
species including humans (25-35% for zidovudine; 35-50% (at 0.1 µg/ml) to <10% (at 100 µg/ml) for 
lamivudine).  In  distribution  studies  with  radioactively  labelled  lamivudine  or  zidovudine,  rapid  and 
wide  tissue  distribution  of  drug-related  radioactivity  was  seen  for  both  compounds.  There  were  no 
signs  of  tissue  accumulation.  Placental  transfer  of  drug-related  material  has  also  been  demonstrated 
with  both  compounds.  Studies  in  lactating  rats  have  shown  that  both  compounds,  after  oral 
administration, are excreted in milk. 
Following  oral  administration  of  lamivudine  to  rats,  about  60%  of  the  drug  related  material  was 
excreted in urine within 24 h, predominantly as unchanged drug and the data indicated active tubular 
renal excretion. Two minor metabolites (<5%) were detected. The remaining drug-related radioactivity 
was recovered as unchanged drug in faeces, indicating incomplete absorption. In dogs, about 97% of 
the radioactivity were recovered in urine after oral administration, of which 2 metabolites accounted 
for  52%  of  the  dose.  Of  the  species  studied,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  lamivudine  in  rats  most 
closely resembled that observed in humans.  
After oral administration of zidovudine to rats, up to 98% of the drug-related material was excreted in 
urine  of  which  about  85%  was  unchanged,  indicating  high  absorption  and  minor  metabolism.  Four 
minor  metabolites  were  present,  and  one  of  them  corresponded  to  the  main  metabolite  in  human, 
5’-glucuronylazidothymidine  (GAZT),  which  lacks  anti-HIV  activity.  In  dogs,  drug-related  material 
was  mainly  excreted  via  the  kidney.  Three  metabolites  were  identified,  one  of  them  being  GAZT. 
Studies in cynomolgus monkeys indicated extensive metabolism to GAZT. These studies showed that 
the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  zidovudine  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  most  closely  resembled  that 
observed in humans. 
Using  in  vitro  models,  there  was  no  evidence  of  interactions  between  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  at 
the  absorption  or  elimination  levels.  Based  on  different  metabolic  pathways,  the  potential  for 
metabolic interactions is considered to be low.  
After  administration  of  either  lamivudine  or  zidovudine,  toxicokinetic  data  obtained  in  the  species 
used  in  the  toxicity  studies,  showed  that  the  systemic  exposure  of  animals  exceeded  the  systemic 
exposure  of  humans  given  therapeutic  doses  of  either  compound.  A  combination  toxicity  study 
demonstrated that there was no indication of changes in plasma levels of either compound when given 
separately or in combination.  
Toxicology 
The preclinical toxicity profiles of lamivudine and zidovudine have been characterised separately in a 
number  of  different  species  in  studies  of  up  to  2  years  duration  (see  more  detail  below).  With  both 
drugs,  the  haematopoetic  system  was  the  most  commonly  affected  target  organ.  Furthermore,  both 
compounds showed a potential to induce embryotoxicity after administration to pregnant animals. One 
toxicity study has been undertaken with the combination (see below).  
Single  dose  toxicity  of  lamivudine  or  zidovudine  after  intravenous  (i.v.)  or  oral  administration  was 
studied in rodents. The acute toxicity of lamivudine was low, where doses up to 2000 mg/kg i.v. (both 
species) or 2x2000 mg/kg orally (mice only) were well tolerated without signs of target organ toxicity. 
In the case of zidovudine, the median lethal doses were > 750 mg/kg (i.v.) and > 3000 mg/kg (oral) in 
both species.  
Repeated dose toxicity of lamivudine after oral administration was studied in rats (up to 6  months) 
4/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
and  dogs  (up  to  12  months).  The  target  organ  of  toxicity  was  the  haematopoietic  system  (anaemia, 
decreased  platelet  count,  leukopenia  and  splenic  hemosiderosis).  Furthermore,  following  high  doses 
and  extended  exposure  periods,  impaired  liver  function  (raised  ALT  and  AST  without  major 
histological effects), and gastrointestinal effects (ulcers, inflammation) were observed. Non observable 
effect level (NOEL) was 300-425 mg/kg/day b.i.d. in rats and <45 mg/kg/day b.i.d. in dogs. The oral 
repeated  dose  toxicity  of  zidovudine  was  studied  in  rats  (up  to  12  months)  and  monkeys  (up  to  12 
months).  Anaemia  was  observed  in  both  species.  In  monkeys,  also  white  blood  cell  counts  were 
decreased and bone marrow examinations revealed progressive retardation of the maturation of all cell 
lines.  One  toxicity  study  has  been  undertaken  with  the  combination.  The  study  focussed  on 
haematoxicity and was conducted in mice since it is the most sensitive species for zidovudine-induced 
haematoxicity.  Following  36  days  administration  of  various  doses  of  lamivudine  together  with  a 
weakly  hematotoxic  dose  of  zidovudine,  anaemia  that  was  most  likely  related  to  zidovudine,  was 
observed. There was no evidence of synergistic toxicity.  
Reproductive  function:  Lamivudine  did  not  impair  the  overall  reproductive  performance  in  rats. 
Embryonic  deaths  occurred  in  rabbits  (lamivudine)  or  in  rats  and  rabbits  (zidovudine).  Lamivudine 
showed no teratogenic potential in either species. After administration of zidovudine to rats during the 
organogenetic period, malformations were evident after doses that also caused maternal toxicity (3000 
mg/kg/d). Studies in rabbits revealed no teratogenic effects up to 500 mg/kg/d. Peri-post natal studies 
in rats with either compound did not reveal any cause of concern.  
Genotoxicity: Lamivudine induced gene mutations in the mouse lymphoma assay (at 1000 µg/ml and 
above).  It  was  also  clastogenic  in  an  in  vitro  cytogenicity  test  in  human  lymphocytes  at  300  µg/ml 
which is 150 times higher than the concentrations observed at clinical use. However, no chromosomal 
damage was seen in in vivo tests in rats. Other in vitro and in vivo tests were also negative. Since these 
genotoxic  effects  were  observed  only  at  concentrations  considerably  higher  than  those  observed  at 
clinical use, the genotoxic potential of lamivudine was considered to be acceptable.  
Zidovudine induced both gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations in a number of in vivo and in 
vitro test systems. In relation to lamivudine, zidovudine showed a greater genotoxic potential both in 
vitro and in vivo.  
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  lamivudine  was  studied  in  conventional  24-month  studies  in  rats  and 
mice. No signs of carcinogenic effects were seen. In these studies, the systemic exposure of animals 
was 10 - 58 higher than the systemic exposure of humans at clinical use.  
With zidovudine, carcinogenicity was studied in mice and rats in 22-24 month studies. In female mice, 
a dose dependent increase of vaginal tumors was observed. Also rats developed vaginal tumours at the 
highest dose tested. These may be related to local effect of unmetabolised zidovudine. In addition, a 
transplacental carcinogenicity study has been performed in mice. Also this study indicated increased 
incidence of vaginal tumours after life time treatment, possibly due to a local effect as above. Based 
on  these  data,  zidovudine  is  considered  to  be  a  rodent  carcinogen.  However,  due  to  metabolic 
differences between rodents and humans, the relevance of these findings for humans is uncertain.  
In  local  tolerance  studies,  lamivudine  did  not  cause  ocular  or  cutaneous  irritation.  Furthermore,  the 
potential for hypersensitivity reactions was  considered to be low  and there was no indication of IgE 
mediating properties. Neither lamivudine nor zidovudine appeared to affect the immune system. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects  
The use of lamivudine and zidovudine as either monotherapy or in combination for the treatment of 
HIV-1 infection has been extensively studied. For the development of the fixed dose formulation, the 
properties of each substance, the administration of lamivudine with zidovudine and the bioequivalence 
of the compounds were reviewed. The development of the fixed dose combination tablet was based on 
the recommendations of the existing CPMP Guideline on fixed combination medicinal products.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Co-administration  of  lamivudine  with  zidovudine  has  been  evaluated  in  several  studies  and  no 
pharmacokinetic interaction between both substances was found as described below.  
5/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
Absorption and distribution 
Administered by the oral route the extent of absorption of lamivudine in adults is normally between 80 
and 85%. Food intake results in a delay of Tmax (0.75 hours) and a lower Cmax (decrease by 15%) but 
did not significantly affect the AUC. 
With respect to zidovudine, the bioavailability is normally between 60 and 70%. Food intake results in 
a  delay  of  Tmax  (0.5  hours)  and  a  lower  Cmax  (decrease  by  45  %)  but  did  not  significantly  affect  the 
AUC. 
Lamivudine  exhibits  linear  pharmacokinetics  over  the  therapeutic  dose  range.  Binding  to  human 
plasma proteins was low for both substances with less than 36% for lamivudine and 34% to 38% for 
zidovudine.  The  mean  apparent  volumes  of  distribution  (Vdss)  determined  after  intravenous 
administration was 1.3 l/kg and 1.6 l/kg for lamivudine and zidovudine respectively, suggesting a wide 
tissue  distribution.  Lamivudine  and  zidovudine  were  shown  to  penetrate  the  blood-brain  barrier  at 
moderate  amounts.  The  mean  ratios  of  CSF/serum  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  concentrations  2-4 
hours after oral administration were approximately 0.12 and 0.5 respectively. 
No change in absorption of lamivudine was observed when zidovudine was co-administered. Although 
a small increase in Cmax (28%) was observed for zidovudine when lamivudine is co-administered, no 
statistical difference was found on the overall exposure as defined by the AUC.  
Biotransformation 
Lamivudine  is  not  extensively  eliminated  by  hepatic  metabolism  (5-10%).  The  amount  of  urinary 
trans-sulfoxide  metabolite  recovered  in  urine  was  minor.  Lamivudine  is  predominantly  cleared  by 
renal excretion of unchanged drug. 
On the contrary zidovudine was found to be extensively metabolised. The  major inactive metabolite 
found in both plasma and urine is 5’-glucuronide of zidovudine accounting for approximately 50-80% 
of  the  administered  dose  eliminated  by  renal  excretion.  Following  intravenous  administration  of 
zidovudine, the metabolite 3’-amino-3’deoxythymidine (AMT) has been identified. 
Considering  the  different  metabolism  pathway  between  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  no  interaction  is 
expected or observed. 
Elimination 
Lamivudine is excreted through renal route via glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion (most 
likely  the  organic  cationic  transport  system)  mainly  as  unchanged  drug  (>70%  of  unchanged  drug) 
with a mean systemic clearance of approximately 0.32 l/h/kg. The observed half-life of elimination is 
5 to 7 hours. 
Zidovudine  is  eliminated  through  renal  and  metabolic  routes.  Following  intravenous  administration, 
the mean terminal half-life was 1.1 hours and the mean systemic clearance accounted for 1.6 l/h/kg. 
The estimated renal clearance of 0.34 l/h/kg indicated glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion 
by the kidneys. 
Since  zidovudine  is  only  partially  eliminated  by  active  renal  secretion,  no  potential  interaction  with 
lamivudine was expected. 
Special population 
Since  data  are  available  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impaired  function  with  the  separate 
formulations of lamivudine and zidovudine, no study was performed with the fixed formulation. 
The  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  of  lamivudine  has  been  evaluated  in  patients  with  renal  impaired 
function. Lamivudine elimination was shown to be affected by renal dysfunction. A dosage reduction 
for patients with creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min was therefore recommended. With respect to 
zidovudine,  a  higher  plasma  concentration  of  zidovudine  and  its  metabolites  was  found  in  patients 
with advanced renal failure suggesting the need for dosage reduction in this population.  
Data  obtained  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  hepatic  impairment  showed  that  lamivudine 
pharmacokinetics are not significantly affected by hepatic dysfunction. Limited data in patients with 
6/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
cirrhosis  showed  that  accumulation  of  zidovudine  might  occur  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment 
because  of  decreased  glucuronidation.  A  dosage  reduction  of  zidovudine  in  severe  hepatic  impaired 
population is therefore warranted.  
Based  on  this  information,  the  administration  of  the  separated  preparations  of  lamivudine  and 
zidovudine is therefore warranted in hepatic or renal impairment populations. 
Since there are insufficient data on the use of the fixed dose combination in children, the use of the 
fixed dose tablet is not recommended. Similarly the use of the fixed dose tablet is not recommended 
since the safety of lamivudine has not been established in pregnancy. 
Interactions 
As  Combivir  contains  lamivudine  and  zidovudine,  any  interactions  that  have  been  identified  with 
these  agents  individually may  occur  as  detailed  in  the  individual  SPCs  for  Epivir  and  Retrovir.  The 
likelihood  of  metabolic  interactions  with  lamivudine  is  low  due  to  limited  metabolism  and  plasma 
protein  binding, and  almost complete renal clearance.  Zidovudine is primarily  eliminated  by hepatic 
conjugation  to  an  inactive  glucuronidated  metabolite.  Medicinal  products  which  are  primarily 
eliminated  by  hepatic  metabolism  especially  via  glucuronidation  may  have  the  potential  to  inhibit 
metabolism of zidovudine.  
Bioequivalence testing 
A study was carried out to assess the bioequivalence between the fixed dose combination tablet to the 
two  marketed  formulations  being  lamivudine  150  mg  tablets  and  zidovudine  300  mg  tablets.  This 
open-label,  three-way  crossover  study  involved  24  healthy  volunteers.  The  three  treatments  were  as 
follows:  
• 
• 
• 
fixed dose combination tablet (lamivudine 150 mg/zidovudine 300 mg) after an overnight fast  
separate  lamivudine  150  mg  tablets  and  zidovudine  300  mg  tablets  swallowed  simultaneously 
after an overnight fast 
fixed  dose  combination  tablet  (lamivudine  150  mg/zidovudine  300  mg)  after  a  standardised 
breakfast.  
Results  from  this  study  confirmed  the  lack  of  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  zidovudine  and 
lamivudine  since  the  properties of  both  substances in combination are in the range of the respective 
administration  of  monotherapy.  In  addition,  the  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  was  shown  to  be 
bioequivalent  to  the  two  marketed  formulations,  lamivudine  150  mg  tablets  and  zidovudine  300  mg 
tablets,  when  co-administered  under  fasting  conditions.  The  influence  of  food  was  also  evaluated. 
When the combined lamivudine/zidovudine fixed dose tablet was administered with food the extent of 
the  absorption  of  either  lamivudine  or  zidovudine  was  unchanged  in  comparison  to  administration 
under  fasting  conditions.  The  effect  of  food  to  slow  the  rate  of  absorption  was  previously 
demonstrated  with  current  available  separated  formulations  and  was  not  expected  to  have  clinical 
consequence.  Therefore  the  combined  lamivudine/zidovudine  fixed  tablet  may  be  administered 
without  regard  to  meal  since  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  extent  of  absorption  following  a 
meal and no clinical consequence of slowed absorption is expected. 
Clinical experience 
Efficacy 
Zidovudine was the first antiviral agent to be licensed for the treatment of HIV. It has been extensively 
used and studied. Lamivudine 150 mg tablet was authorised in 1996 for the treatment in HIV-infected 
patients in combination with other antiretroviral agents including zidovudine. The dosing regimen in 
clinical  trials  conducted  with  the  combination  of  both  substances  was  200  mg  tid  zidovudine  with 
150 mg lamivudine bid. The proposed dosing regimen for the fixed dose formulation, which contains 
300 mg zidovudine and 150 mg lamivudine, is one tablet twice daily. 
During  the  development  of  lamivudine,  the  co-administration  with  zidovudine  has  been  extensively 
studied and the favourable risk/benefit of lamivudine in combination with zidovudine has already been 
established.  Since  then  the  combination  of  lamivudine  with  zidovudine  has  been  widely  used.  The 
7/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
fixed  dose  combination  corresponds  closely  to  combinations  that  are  already  used  in  practice.  The 
results  of  a  study  (NUCB  3027)  demonstrated  therapeutic  equivalence  between  the  fixed  dose 
combination and dosage regimens used in the efficacy studies. 
The efficacy and safety of lamivudine in combination with zidovudine was established on the basis of 
4  phase  II/III  (NUCA  3001,  NUCA  3002,  NUCB  3001  and  NUCB  3001)  comparative  biological 
markers studies, a meta-analysis of clinical events and safety data from a large open label programme. 
In  the  4  above-mentioned  studies,  patients  received  150  mg  bid  in  combination  with  200  mg 
zidovudine tid. These studies involving zidovudine naive patients (NUCA 3001 and NUCB 3002) and 
experienced  patients  (NUCA  3002  and  NUCB  3002)  compared  double  combination  of 
lamivudine/zidovudine with lamivudine or zidovudine monotherapy. The overall results showed that 
combination  of  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  was  associated  with  significant  increases  in  CD4  cell 
counts  and  reduction  in  viral  load  as  measured  by  PCR  compared  with  zidovudine  monotherapy  or 
zidovudine  +  zalcitalbine  in  naïve  and  pre-treated  patients.  Patients  in  the  zidovudine/lamivudine 
groups exhibited substantial drop in viral load at weeks 2 and 4 followed by a rebound effect with a 
mean  peak  decrease  from  baseline  of  around  -1.5  log10  copies/ml.  Over  24  weeks,  results  did  show 
significant advantage of the combination over each treatment monotherapies. 
On the basis of the results from these studies a meta-analysis of the progression to CDC B/C clinical 
endpoints  was  performed.  Zidovudine  in  combination  with  lamivudine  was  associated  with  a  49% 
reduction in disease progression. This benefit was found to be consistent in different sub-populations. 
A  large  randomised  controlled  double  blind  clinical  endpoint  trial  (NUCB  3007)  was  designed  to 
compare  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  lamivudine  and  lamivudine  +  loviride  against  placebo  in  the 
treatment of HIV-1 infected patients taking concurrent zidovudine-containing regimens with CD4 cell 
counts  between  25-250  cells/  mm3.  This  well  conducted  trial  involved  1895  antiretroviral  naïve  or 
experienced patients, from both sex and over 18 years old. Patients were antiretroviral experienced for 
83% with a median duration of prior therapy of approximately 28 months. The concurrent zidovudine-
containing regimens consisted of zidovudine/zalcitalbine for 23% and zidovudine/didanosine for 15%, 
the  rest  being  zidovudine  alone.  Based  on  the  results  from  the  second  interim  report  which 
demonstrated a significant delay in time to progression to new AIDS event or death in the lamivudine 
arms compared to placebo, it was recommended to end the study. Due to premature termination of the 
study, the median duration on study medication was approximately 9 months. 
Final results over 12 months from this study confirmed and extended the clinical data described in the 
meta-analyis of the 4 biological markers studies. The addition of lamivudine to zidovudine containing 
regimens was associated with a highly significant relative reduction in risk of disease progression to 
AIDS/death  (57%).  The  combination  lamivudine  with  zidovudine-containing  regimen  was  also 
associated  with  a  significant  benefit  in  survival  alone  with  60%  relative  reduction  in  mortality 
(p=0.0007). The results showed that the addition of loviride to lamivudine did not add any additional 
clinical benefit. 
Study (NUCB 3027) aimed to compare the antiviral activity between two regimens of the combination 
lamivudine/zidovudine.  The  first  regimen  consisted  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  formulation 
(lamivudine 150mg/zidovudine 300 mg) administered twice daily whereas the second consisted of the 
separate  formulations  (zidovudine  2x100  mg  capsules  tid  plus  lamivudine  150  mg  tablet  bid).  This 
open-label,  randomised  study  involved  75  antiretroviral  naive  patients  of  both  sex,  with  CD4  cell 
counts (200 cells/ mm3 and viral load (10,000 copies/ml. Primary endpoint was changes from baseline 
in viral load as measured by PCR at week 12. 
Results showed that, at week 12, change from baseline in HIV-RNA was -1.36 log10 copies/ml in both 
treatment groups. No statistically significant difference on the CD4 cell counts was observed at week 
12 between the fixed dose combination tablets and the separate formulations. Both treatments seemed 
to be well tolerated. Based on these results, both treatment regimens can be considered as equivalent 
with respect to antiviral activity. 
The  potential  clinical  benefit  of  the  fixed  combination  has  not  yet  been  established  in  children. 
Therefore the administration of the fixed dose formulation is only recommended in adolescents over 
12 years of age. 
8/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
Resistance 
Individually  lamivudine  and  zidovudine  therapy  has  resulted  in  HIV  clinical  isolates,  which  show 
reduced sensitivity in vitro to the nucleoside analogue to which they have been exposed. However in 
vitro  studies  indicate  that  zidovudine-resistant  virus  isolates  can  become  zidovudine  sensitive  when 
they  simultaneously  acquire  resistance  to  lamivudine.  In  therapy  naïve  patients  treated  with  a 
combination  of  lamivudine  and  zidovudine,  the  emergence  of  zidovudine  phenotypic  resistance  was 
delayed  without  influencing  development  of  lamivudine  phenotypic  resistance  (9%  versus  39%  in 
patients treated with zidovudine monotherapy after 24 weeks).  
Considering that the combined lamivudine/zidovudine fixed dose tablet may allow a simplification of 
therapy and therefore improves patients compliance, which is the limiting factor in therapeutic success 
leading to drug resistance, the fixed combination tablet may offer an interest in minimising the risk of 
emergence of resistance. 
Safety  
Safety data with the fixed dose tablet are limited to data derived from the bioequivalence study, which 
showed that Combivir was well tolerated. Extended data on the combination of zidovudine/lamivudine 
shows  it  to  be  well  tolerated  and  with  a  safety  profile,  which  indicated  that  the  magnitude  and 
frequency of adverse events or laboratory abnormalities are similar to that observed with zidovudine 
alone. In addition based on the results from study NUCB 3007, there was no evidence that lamivudine 
increases the incidence or the severity of clinical and laboratory toxicities observed with zidovudine-
containing regimen alone.  As Combivir contains lamivudine and zidovudine, the type and severity of 
adverse  reactions  associated  with  each  of  the  compounds  may  be  expected.  There  is  no  evidence  of 
added toxicity following concurrent administration of the two compounds.   
The main finding for lamivudine in combination with zidovudine was neutropenia and anaemia, both 
occasionally severe. The most commonly reported adverse events with lamivudine include headache, 
insomnia,  cough,  nasal  symptoms,  nausea,  vomiting,  abdominal  pain  or  cramps,  diarrhoea,  rash, 
alopecia, arthralgia, muscle disorders, fatigue, malaise and feverThe most commonly reported adverse 
events  with  zidovudine  include  anaemia,  neutropenia,  leucopenia,  headache,  dizziness,  nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea, myalgia and malaise.  
Alopecia and arthralgia were reported as common adverse events and rhabdomyolysis was reported as 
a rare adverse event related to lamivudine. 
Following the evaluation of additional data submitted the CPMP requested to harmonise the labelling 
on pancreatitis and peripheral neuropathy of all medicinal products containing lamivudine. 
Cardiomyopathy was reported as a rare adverse event related to zidovudine. 
Rare cases of hepatic steatosis and lactic acidosis, some of which have been fatal, have been reported 
during  the  post-marketing  phase.  Considering  that  similar  cases  have  been  reported  with  other 
antiretroviral  nucleosides,  as  monotherapy  or  combination  therapy,  it  was  agreed  to  include  a 
harmonised  statement  into  their  SPC  to  reflect  this  potential  class  effect.  The  statement  mentions 
enunciating symptoms, i.e. benign digestive symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain 
and  the  most  common  risk  factors  identified  which  include  obesity,  treatment  with  combination 
antiretroviral  nucleoside  therapy  and  female  gender.  A  further  revision  of  the  class  labelling  in 
September 2000 included respiratory and neurological symptoms which might be indicative of lactic 
acidosis development. In addition, it informs that severe cases of lactic acidosis, sometimes with fatal 
outcome,  were  associated  with  pancreatitis,  liver  failure/hepatic  steatosis,  renal  failure  and  higher 
levels  of  serum  lactate.  It  also  states  that  lactic  acidosis  generally  occurred  after  a  few  months  of 
treatment.  During  their  meeting  in  February  2002  the  CPMP  adopted  a  further  revision  of  the  class 
labelling  as  agreed  by  the  Pharmacovigilance  Working  Party  in  January  2002.  This  revision 
introduced  a  “box  warning”  and  restructured  the  paragraph  in  order  to  improve  readability  and  to 
focus the reader on early symptoms. The main reason for this change was severity of the condition and 
a frequent delay between early symptoms and diagnosis. 
Treatment  with  a  combination  of  at  least  three  antiretroviral  drugs  can  induce  a  characteristic 
syndrome  termed  lipodystrophy  or  fat  redistribution  syndrome  containing  peripheral  fat  wasting 
9/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
(including  accentuation  of  facial  folds)  and  central  adiposity.  Metabolic  disturbances  such  as 
hyperlipidaemia and insulin resistance also often appear. PIs were originally believed to be the causal 
agents.  NRTIs  have  also  been  implicated.  In  addition,  lipodystrophy  has  also  been  observed  with 
protease-inhibitor-sparing  regimens.  The  emerging  picture  is  that  of  a  connection  between  visceral 
lipomatosis  and  protease  inhibitors  and  lipoatrophy  and  NRTIs  correlating  with  different  possible 
mechanisms e.g. effects on lipoprotein production and adipocyte differentiation. Non-drug factors are 
also of importance e.g. increasing age, duration and severity of HIV infection. 
Following  evaluation  of  data  submitted  by  all  MAHs  of  antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  a  class 
labelling,  which  harmonises  the  information  on  lipodystrophy  for  all  three  classes  of  antiretroviral 
products, has been agreed and implemented in the product information for all antiretroviral medicinal 
products. The wording presents as much as possible of the presently available knowledge; it gives a 
description  of  the  condition  (although  there  is  at  present  no  clear  definition  of  lipodystrophy), 
information  about  causality  and  surveillance  measures.  The  higher  risk  of  developing  lipodystrophy 
with  long-term  therapy  as  well  as  importance  of  factors  such  as  age  and  disease  related  factors  is 
mentioned. 
Further to the discussions held  by  the  Ad-hoc  Group  of Experts  on Anti-HIV  medicinal products  in 
November  2001, the CPMP  agreed that liver impairment  was of  increasing concern in  HIV positive 
patients both in the form of adverse hepatic effects in patients with normal liver function prior ART 
and as regards patients with chronic liver disease treated with ART.  
In January 2002 the CPMP requested the MAH for all authorised anti-retroviral medicinal products to 
conduct  a  retrospective  review  of  clinical  trials  and  post-marketing  data  relating  to  the  use  of  their 
product(s)  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and/or  HBV/HCV  co-infection.  Following  review  of 
the  submitted  responses  and  discussions  held  during  the  CPMP  meeting  and  the  Pharmacovigilance 
Working  Party  meeting  in  October  2002,  the  CPMP  adopted  a  list  of  questions  (including  general, 
product  specific  and  SPC  wording  recommendations).  The  review  of  the  MAHs’  responses  has 
essentially  confirmed  that  co-infected  patients  and  patients  with  underlying  liver  disorders  are  at 
increased risk for adverse events, essentially confined to liver events.  
Following the review of responses submitted by all MAHs of antiretroviral medicinal products, a class 
labelling  on  “liver  disease”  has  been  agreed  and  implemented  in  the  product  information  for  all 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products.  In  response  to  the  request  for  supplementary  information,  the 
applicant introduced pharmacokinetic parameters in healthy volunteers for lamivudine and zidovudine. 
A  pilot  study  demonstrated  that  zidovudine  is  incorporated  into  leukocyte  nuclear  DNA  of  adults, 
including pregnant women, taking zidovudine as treatment for HIV-1 infection, or for the prevention 
of mother to child viral transmission.  Zidovudine was also incorporated into DNA from cord blood 
leukocytes of infants from zidovudine-treated mothers. A transplacental genotoxicity study conducted 
in  monkeys  demonstrates  that  foetuses  exposed  in  utero  to  the  combination  of  zidovudine  plus 
lamivudine,  at  human-equivalent  exposures,  sustain  a  higher  level  of  nucleoside  analogue-DNA 
incorporation into multiple foetal organs. There was also evidence of more telomere shortening than in 
monkey foetuses exposed to zidovudine alone. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. 
To  further  support  the  safe  use  of  Combivir  the  CPMP  adopted  a  class  labelling  on  mitochondrial 
toxicity in children with in utero/ post-natal exposure to Nucleotide/Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase 
Inhibitors.  The  main  adverse  events  reported  are  haematological  disorders  (anaemia,  neutropenia), 
metabolic  disorders  (hyperlactatemia,  hyperlipasemia).  These  events  are  often  transitory.  Some  late-
onset  neurological  disorders  have  been  reported  (hypertonia,  convulsion,  abnormal  behaviour). 
Whether  the  neurological  disorders  are  transient  or  permanent  is  currently  unknown.  Any  child 
exposed  in  utero  to  nucleoside  and  nucleotide  analogues,  even  HIV-negative  children,  should  have 
clinical  and  laboratory  follow-up  and  should  be  fully  investigated  for  possible  mitochondrial 
dysfunction in case of relevant signs or symptoms. 
The CHMP adopted in November 2004 a class labelling on immune reactivation syndrome. In HIV-
infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of institution of combination antiretroviral 
therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic pathogens may 
arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, such reactions have 
been  observed  within  the  first  few  weeks  or  months  of  initiation  of  CART.  Relevant  examples  are 
cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, and Pneumocystis carinii 
10/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
pneumonia.  Any  inflammatory  symptoms  should  be  evaluated  and  treatment  instituted  when 
necessary. 
Risk/Benefit Assessment 
The combination of lamivudine plus zidovudine has been proven to be effective and well tolerated and 
is  widely  used  in  antiretroviral  combination  therapy.  Pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic 
interactions  between  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  have  shown  no  differences  in  zidovudine  or 
lamivudine  exposure  when  co-administered.  Additionally,  in  vitro  experiments  have  found  no 
intracelullar  interaction  with  respect  to  zidovudine  triphosphate  or  lamivudine  triphosphate  as 
expected,  since  different  enzyme  systems  are  required  for  their  phosphorylation.  Lastly,  synergy 
between these compounds has been observed both in vitro and clinically. Hence, taking into account 
the  bioequivalence  between  the  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  and  the  two  individual  marketed 
formulations,  and  the  results  of  the  study  NUCB  3027,  Combivir  is  expected  to  provide  similar 
efficacy and safety profile to that observed with the two separate formulations. 
The  combined  lamivudine/zidovudine  fixed  dose  tablet  may  improve  patient’s  compliance  and  offer 
an  interest  in  minimising  the  risk  of  emergence  of  resistance.  In  populations  requiring  dosage 
adjustment the use of this fixed dose combination tablet will not be appropriate. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  data  submitted  are  acceptable  to  ensure  the  quality  and  the 
consistency of the fixed dose combination tablets. 
Since  zidovudine  and  lamivudine  have  been  extensively  and  safely  used  in  humans  in  similar  daily 
doses (similar AUC) for a long period, studies in animals  with  the combination were  limited to  one 
haematoxicity study.  
The  CPMP  has  considered  during  the  review  process  that,  on  the  basis  of  the  current  efficacy  and 
safety data of both separated substances, the bioequivalence and efficacy studies which compared the 
fixed dose combination tablet to the individual marketed formulations, the overall risk/benefit ratio for 
Combivir is favourable. Consequently, the CPMP gave a favourable opinion for granting a marketing 
authorisation for Combivir, fixed dose combination tablets of 150 mg lamivudine 300 mg zidovudine 
for  the  following  indication:  Combivir  is  indicated  in  antiretroviral  combination  therapy  for  the 
treatment of HIV infected adults and adolescents over 12 years of age. 
11/11 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
