12 September 2022 
EMA/895061/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name: COMIRNATY Original/Omicron BA.4-5 
International non-proprietary name: tozinameran and famtozinameran 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0143 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Table of contents 
1.  Background information on the procedure............................................. 4 
2.  Introduction .......................................................................................... 4 
3.  Quality aspects ...................................................................................... 5 
3.1 Introduction ....................................................................................................... 5 
3.2 Active substance – Tozinameran ............................................................................ 5 
3.3 Active substance – Famtozinameran ...................................................................... 5 
3.4 Finished product (CTD module 3.2.P) ................................................................... 10 
3.5 Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical and biological aspects .......................... 18 
3.6 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ......................... 18 
3.7 Recommendations for future quality development .................................................. 19 
4.  Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................. 19 
4.1 Introduction ..................................................................................................... 19 
4.2 Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 19 
4.3 Discussion on non-clinical aspects ....................................................................... 23 
4.4 Conclusions on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 24 
5.  Clinical aspects .................................................................................... 24 
5.1 Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................. 24 
5.2 Clinical safety ................................................................................................... 24 
5.2.1 Studies C4591031 Substudy D and E, C4591001 ................................................ 24 
5.2.2 Study BNT162 - monovalent delta and bivalent alpha/delta vaccine ....................... 40 
5.2.3 Study C4591044 - bivalent (Original + Omicron BA.4/BA.5) ................................. 44 
5.2.4 Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................. 44 
5.2.5 Conclusions on clinical safety ........................................................................... 47 
6.  Risk management plan ........................................................................ 47 
7.  Change to the product information ...................................................... 59 
8.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit-Risk Balance ................. 61 
9.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 64 
10.  EPAR changes .................................................................................... 65 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 2/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
ADR 
AE  
AESI 
BLA 
BMI 
CDC 
COVID-19 
CSR 
DART 
ECG 
EU 
EUA 
FDA 
FFRNT 
GCP 
GLP 
GMFR 
GMR 
GMT 
HIV 
ICH 
IM 
IND 
LLOQ 
LNP 
MedDRA 
modRNA 
mRNA 
NAAT 
N-binding 
P2 S 
PDCO 
PIP 
PT 
RNA-LNP 
SAE 
SARS 
SARS-CoV-2 
S glycoprotein, S 
SOC 
UK 
US 
WHO 
Definition 
adverse reaction 
adverse event 
adverse event of special interest 
(US FDA) Biologics License Application 
body mass index 
(US) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
Coronavirus Disease 2019 
clinical study report 
developmental and reproductive toxicity 
Electrocardiogram 
European Union 
Emergency Use Authorization 
(US) Food and Drug Administration  
fluorescence focus reduction neutralization test 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practice 
geometric mean-fold rise 
geometric mean ratio 
geometric mean titer  
human immunodeficiency virus 
International Council of Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
intramuscular(ly) 
Investigational New Drug application 
lower limit of quantitation 
lipid nanoparticle 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
nucleoside-modified messenger RNA 
messenger RNA 
nucleic acid amplification testing 
SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein binding 
SARS-CoV-2 full-length, P2 mutant, “heads up,” prefusion spike 
glycoprotein 
Paediatric Committee 
Paediatric Investigational Plan 
Preferred Term 
RNA lipid nanoparticle 
serious adverse event 
severe acute respiratory syndrome 
SARS Coronavirus-2; virus causing the disease COVID-19 
spike glycoprotein 
System Organ Class 
United Kingdom 
United States 
World Health Organization 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 3/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 26 August 2022 an application for a variation.  
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
B.I.a.6.a  
B.I.a.6.a - Changes to the active substance of a vaccine 
Type II 
I, IIIA, IIIB 
against human coronavirus - Replacement or addition of a 
and A 
serotype, strain, antigen or coding sequence or 
combination of serotypes, strains, antigens or coding 
sequences for a human coronavirus vaccine  
Addition of a new strain (Omicron BA.4-5) resulting in a new Comirnaty bivalent Original/Omicron 
BA.4-5 (15 μg / 15 μg per dose) dispersion for injection presentation. The SmPC, the Package Leaflet 
and Labelling are updated accordingly. The submission includes a revised RMP version 7.0. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Labelling, 
Package Leaflet and Annex A and to the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
2. 
Introduction 
Pfizer and BioNTech have developed the COMIRNATY vaccine to prevent Coronavirus Disease 2019 
(COVID-19) caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. The vaccine is based on SARS CoV-2 spike (S) 
glycoprotein antigens encoded in RNA and formulated in lipid nanoparticles (LNPs). The COMIRNATY 
vaccine is also referred to as COVID-19 Vaccine (BioNTech code number BNT162b2, Pfizer code 
number PF-07302048). 
The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants with multiple mutations have led Pfizer/BioNTech to develop 
variant vaccine constructs. Specifically, the emergence of Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) as a variant of concern 
(VOC) is the subject of this variation. To assist in the public health crisis, a new 30 μg BNT162b2 
Bivalent [Original and Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant] finished product (herein referred to as Bivalent), 
consisting of the Original and Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) active substances strains (also referred to as active 
substance construct), is being introduced to the MAA as a new variant vaccine. 
The Bivalent vaccine is manufactured by mixing two active substance strains in a 1:1 ratio prior to the 
Lipid Nanoparticle (LNP) Formation and Stabilization step and is manufactured at previously 
authorized/licensed Pfizer/BioNTech sites. The Bivalent vaccine is formulated in Tris/Sucrose, 
presented in a 30 μg total RNA dose, and filled at 2.25 mL/vial (which is intended to deliver 
approximately 15 μg of each strain in a 0.3 mL injection volume), allowing six doses per vial. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 4/65 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Quality aspects 
3.1 Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a dispersion for injection containing 15 micrograms of 
tozinameran and 15 micrograms of famtozinameran as active substance, embedded in lipid 
nanoparticles.  
Tozinameran is a single-stranded, 5’-capped messenger RNA (mRNA) produced using a cell-free 
in vitro transcription from the corresponding DNA templates, encoding the viral spike (S) protein of 
SARS-CoV-2 (Original).  
Famtozinameran is a single-stranded, 5’-capped messenger RNA (mRNA) produced using a cell-free 
in vitro transcription from the corresponding DNA templates, encoding the viral spike (S) protein of 
SARS-CoV-2 (Omicron BA.4-5). 
Other ingredients are: ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis(2-hexyldecanoate) (ALC-
0315), 2-[(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide (ALC-0159), 1,2-Distearoyl-sn-
glycero-3-phosphocholine (DSPC), Cholesterol, Trometamol, Trometamol hydrochloride, Sucrose, 
Water for injections. 
The product is available as a 2.25 mL dispersion in a 2 mL clear multidose vial (type I glass) with a 
stopper (synthetic bromobutyl rubber) and a grey flip-off plastic cap with aluminium seal. Each vial 
contains 6 doses. Pack sizes: 10 vials or 195 vials. 
3.2 Active substance – Tozinameran 
The active substance tozinameran is already approved for the original Comirnaty vaccine formulations 
(EU/1/20/1528/001-005). No changes to the information related to tozinameran are proposed. 
3.3 Active substance – Famtozinameran 
General information (CTD module 3.2.S.1) 
Section 3.2.S.1 has been updated with information related to the Omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant. The 
information provided is considered adequate and acceptable. 
Manufacture (CTD module 3.2.S.2) 
Manufacturer(s) (CTD section: S.2.1) 
All proposed active substance manufacturing and testing sites are already approved in the existing 
Comirnaty conditional marketing authorisation (EU/1/20/1528/001-007) for the manufacture of the 
active substances tozinameran (Original) and riltozinameran (Omicron BA.1). The GMP compliance of 
these sites has been previously confirmed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 5/65 
 
 
 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls (CTD section: S.2.2)  
The manufacturing process and process controls are the same as currently approved for the 
manufacture of tozinameran and riltozinameran. 
Control of materials (CTD section: S.2.3) 
2.3.S.2.3.2. Control of Materials - Source, History and Generation of Plasmids 
Manufacture of the BNT162b2 Omicron BA.4/BA.5 active substance is achieved using in vitro 
transcription that includes a linear DNA template as a starting material.  The linear DNA template is 
produced via plasmid DNA from transformed Escherichia coli cells.  The plasmid is a 7,809 base pair 
plasmid designed for the production of Omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant.   
Figure 3.2.S.2.3-1. Omicron BA.4/BA.5 Plasmid Map 
BNT162b2 Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant vaccine active substance is manufactured by in vitro 
transcription using a linear DNA template, produced via plasmid DNA from transformed Escherichia coli 
cells. The functional elements of the  Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) plasmid are sufficiently described in graphic 
and tabular formats and the sequence is included.  The source and generation of the Omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) plasmid are not clearly documented. However, as the plasmid used in the manufacture of 
the original vaccine was generated using the same procedure, included in the original dossier, and as 
the nucleotide differences between the plasmids  are located only within the gene encoding the spike 
sequence, the information provided is considered sufficient. 
The sites involved in manufacturing, testing and storage of the plasmids are listed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 6/65 
 
 
 
 
 
The master cell bank involved in the plasmid manufacturing process is described. MCB qualification 
tests are listed and include morphologic and genotypic identity, DNA sequencing, absence of 
contaminating bacteriophages and viability. Relevant specifications are set and data from the current 
MCB are provided. Restriction map analysis, plasmid retention and plasmid copy number are included 
as characterization studies with report result as a result criterion. At the time of the submission, 
results for the restriction map analysis and plasmid copy number are still pending. It is stated that any 
unexpected results obtained from the characterization tests will be further evaluated. The approach is 
endorsed.  
Working cell banks (WCB) are not yet available from MCB GF4643 manufactured at Pfizer Chesterfield. 
Information on WCBs will be added at a later date once data is available. The MAH is requested to 
provide a timeline for the intended implementation of WCBs. The plasmid MCB is enrolled in a cell bank 
stability program consisting of viability and plasmid retention assays conducted at all stability time 
points. The strategy is considered adequate. 
The Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) plasmid is manufactured by a fed-batch fermentation process initiated from 
the bacterial master cell bank, identical to the process described for the original plasmid in the original 
dossier. 
Specifications for the circular plasmid DNA as well as for the DNA linear template are provided. 
Process- and product-related impurities including host cell genomic DNA, RNA, proteins, endotoxins, 
bioburden and plasmid isoforms, for the plasmid DNA, are quantified routinely. Results from one batch 
are provided for the circular and linearized plasmid. All analytical methods used for the control of the 
linear DNA template obtained from Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) plasmid are identical to the already provided 
methods used for testing of the original plasmid DNA template except for the identity by restriction 
mapping and identity of the transgene region by DNA Sanger sequencing methods. The ID by 
restriction mapping method was updated to remove the use of a reference standard and the ID by 
Sanger sequencing method was updated to include Omicron-specific reagents. Summaries of the 
validation exercise are included and considered adequate.  
A shelf life of 12 months is requested based on the BTN162b2 original vaccine and supported by 
limited data collected in an on-going stability study that have been initiated for the Omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) circular plasmid DNA and linearized DNA. Only T0 data results are currently available for 
the specific Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant. However, considering that no changes are included in the 
manufacturing process of the DNA template as compared to the original variant, the shelf-life is 
considered sufficiently supported by the original data.   
Working cell banks for the manufacturing of the BNT162b2 Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) DS will be established 
based on reviews if demand forecast for future manufacturing plans. When the need arise, WCBs will 
be manufactured from the MCB GF4643 and relevant information will be submitted to EMA for review. 
This is found acceptable. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates (CTD section: S.2.4)  
The control of critical steps and intermediates are the same as currently approved for the manufacture 
of tozinameran and riltozinameran. 
Process validation and/or evaluation (CTD section: S.2.5)  
For process validation of the Omicron variant the Applicant refers to data on the original version of the 
active substance. This can be accepted since the manufacturing process is identical to that used for the 
original variant. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 7/65 
 
 
 
Manufacturing process development (CTD section: S.2.6)  
Section 3.2.S.2.6 has been updated with a document describing manufacturing process history for the 
Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) active substance. To date, one small scale and one large scale batch have been 
manufactured.  
The Applicant states that since the manufacturing process is identical to that used for the original 
variant and the constructs are similar, the cause and effect and the FMEA risk assessment apply to 
both constructs. This is agreed to. 
Critical process parameters (CPPs) have been defined and in-process test for monitoring (IPT-M) and 
for control (IPT-C) are presented for the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) active substance manufacturing process. 
The CPPs, IPT-Cs and IPT-Ms are the same as those defined for the approved variant and the 
acceptance criteria are in almost all cases the same as for the approved variant. This is found 
acceptable. 
No additional comparability assessment and no process validation data is provided with this 
submission.  For process validation of the Omicron variant the Applicant refers to data on the original 
version of the active substance. This can be accepted since the manufacturing process is identical to 
that used for the original variant. Batch analysis data provided in 3.2.S.4.4 from solely one batch 
demonstrate that the first Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) manufactured at commercial scale complies with the 
active substance specification. However, consistency in manufacturing of the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) 
variant active substance has not yet been demonstrated. 
The absence of comparability data is found acceptable since the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant 
constitutes a new active substance. However, comprehensible characterisation of the Omicron variant 
should be provided, as requested in section 3.2.S.3. 
Characterisation (CTD module 3.2.S.3) 
The Applicant has provided characterisation data for the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant. The package 
includes confirmation of primary structure, 5’-Cap structure, higher order structure and biological 
activity. Essentially, the same methods as those used for characterisation of the original variant have 
been applied. The results for primary structure, 5’-Cap structure and higher order structure are found 
acceptable, sufficiently supporting the expected characteristics of the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant. 
Biological activity is confirmed by cell-free in vitro translation and western blot analysis using either 
horseradish peroxidase-conjugated streptavidin (SA-HRP) or an antibody specific for the SARS-CoV-2 
spike protein. The method as such is found acceptable. It is observed that, as compared to the 
characterisation of the original variant and the Omicron (BA.1) variant, the assay involving transfection 
into HEK-293 cells has been excluded. This is found acceptable since cell-free in vitro translation 
followed by WB analysis would sufficiently reflect expressed protein size. 
The bands observed by Western blot, using either of the antibodies, are considered very broad. The 
results from the analysis do not support that a target protein of solely one size is expressed. Since cell-
free in vitro translation is used, variation in protein size due to post-translational modifications can be 
excluded. Further clarification regarding the identity of the observed bands is requested. 
The expressed protein size for BNT162b2 Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) active substance is evaluated by 
western blot following in vitro translation. From the data presented it cannot currently be concluded 
that the protein size is consistent with the expected size of the translated protein and additional 
information should be provided. The Applicant has committed to update Section 3.2.S.3.1 to include 
theoretical protein sizes of the mature protein and variants thereof. The information will be submitted 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 8/65 
 
 
 
by the end of 2022, which is in line with the commitment for the Omicron BA.1 variant. In addition, the 
dossier should be updated with a figure on BNT162 Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) Expressed Protein Size by In 
Vitro Translation, as detected by western blot and as provided in response to the request for 
supplementary information. This is found acceptable as a recommendation for future quality 
development (REC1).  
Control of active substance (CTD module 3.2.S.4) 
The specification for Famtozinameran (Omicron (BA.4/BA.5)) active substance) is presented. The 
active substance specifications contain tests for appearance (clarity, coloration (Ph. Eur.)), pH (Ph. 
Eur.), content (RNA Concentration) (UV Spectroscopy), Identity of Encoded RNA Sequence (ddPCR, 
RT-PCR), RNA Integrity (Capillary Gel Electrophoresis), 5’- Cap (RP-HPLC), Poly(A) Tail (ddPCR), 
Poly(A) Tail Length (IP-RP-HPLC), Residual DNA Template (qPCR), dsRNA (Immunoblot), Bacterial 
Endotoxin (Ph. Eur.) and Bioburden (Ph. Eur.). 
The acceptance criteria are applicable from batch release to end of shelf-life. The acceptance criteria 
provided are based on the available data. These criteria will be reassessed and amended as 
appropriate when more data become available. 
The proposed specification for Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant active substance follows the specification 
established and approved for the original variant and therefore is considered adequate.  
Analytical procedures for Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant active substance release and stability testing 
are listed and briefly described in the dossier.  Most of the analytical procedures are identical to the 
corresponding commercial BNT162b2 original vaccine procedures, apart from identity testing, for which 
two new methods are included, one based on droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) in 
alignment with the identity method used for the bivalent Comirnaty products, and one based on 
reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), introduced to alleviate 
capacity constraints within the testing network. Considering that the active substance concentration, 
formulation process and process control remain unchanged as compared to BNT162b2 original active 
substance and only a change in nucleotide sequence is differentiating the Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant, 
the approach is endorsed. The newly introduced methods are sufficiently described. Validation 
exercises have been performed at the relevant sites. These methods can be used as duplex or single 
plex reactions and specificity has been demonstrated for different primer pairs able to identify a 
number of mRNA variants, including the WT, BA1.2 and BA.4/5 variants.   
Batch results are presented for in total three active substance batches; one batch used for clinical 
trials, process confirmatory studies, and stability studies and two commercial batches. All specification 
acceptance criteria in place at the time of release are met. The specification and limits for Omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) variant active substance are based on the BNT162b2 original active substance. The 
strategy is found acceptable considering that only a change in the nucleotide sequence is driving the 
present variation. It is stated that these criteria will be reassessed and amended as appropriate when 
more data become available, which is endorsed.  
Reference standards of materials (CTD module 3.2.S.5) 
The reference standards are the same as currently approved for tozinameran and riltozinameran. 
Container closure system (CTD module 3.2.S.6) 
The container closure system is the same as currently approved for tozinameran and riltozinameran. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 9/65 
 
 
 
Stability (CTD module 3.2.S.7) 
The proposed shelf-life for the Omicron BA.4/BA.5 active substance is 6 months when stored at the 
intended storage condition of -20 ± 5°C in EVA bags. Thus, the proposed shelf-life and storage 
conditions are identical to those for the original variant. The shelf-life claim is based on primary 
stability studies conducted on the commercial active substance batches of the original vaccine. 
Stability studies for one Omicron batch is on-going. No stability data on this batch has been submitted 
in section 3.2.S.7. The Applicant commits to provide long term and accelerated stability data for the 1-
month time point by the middle of November as the active substance batch GH5745 was recently 
placed on stability and no additional time point past T = 0 is available. Since batch GH5745 was 
manufactured 17 July 2022, the strategy is not understood. One-month data should be available by 
now. However, submission of stability data in November is found acceptable as a recommendation for 
future quality development. (REC 2) 
3.4 Finished product (CTD module 3.2.P) 
Description and composition of the finished product (CTD module 3.2.P.1) 
The bivalent vaccine finished product is a preservative-free, sterile dispersion of RNA-containing lipid 
nanoparticles in an aqueous cryoprotectant buffer for intramuscular administration. The bivalent 
finished product is formulated at 0.1 mg/mL RNA in 10 mM Tris buffer, 300 mM sucrose, pH 7.4 and 
contains an approximate 1:1 ratio of the original and omicron (BA.4/BA.5) variant strains. The bivalent 
finished product is filled at 2.25 mL fill volume, is administered without dilution providing 6 doses at 30 
μg RNA/dose in 0.3 mL injection volume. Each strain, original and omicron (BA.4/BA.5), is present at 
approximately 15 μg/dose. 
The qualitative and quantitative composition is provided in Table P.1-1. 
Table P.1-1. Composition of Bivalent Finished Product, 30 μg RNA dose in 0.3 mL Injection 
Volume, 6 Dose Multi-dose Vial 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 10/65 
 
 
 
 
All excipients except the functional lipids ALC-0315 and ALC-0159, the structural lipid DSPC and the 
buffer component TRIS HCl comply to Ph. Eur. grade. The functional lipids ALC-0315 and ALC-0159, 
the structural lipid DSPC and the buffer component TRIS HCl are all used in the currently approved 
Tris/sucrose and PBS/sucrose finished products of Comirnaty. 
The container closure system is a 2 mL Type I borosilicate or aluminosilicate glass vial and a 13 mm 
bromobutyl rubber stopper and is the same container closure system as for the already approved 
Tris/sucrose finished product of Comirnaty. 
The processing aids and active substance formulation buffer components are residues that are 
essentially removed through the manufacturing process and are not considered as ingredients 
(excipients). 
Pharmaceutical development (CTD module 3.2.P.2) 
This Type II-variation introduces a bivalent finished product of Comirnaty that is a preservative-free, 
sterile dispersion of RNA-containing lipid nanoparticles in an aqueous cryoprotectant buffer for 
intramuscular administration. The bivalent finished product is formulated at 0.1 mg/mL RNA in 10 mM 
Tris buffer, 300 mM sucrose, pH 7.4 and contains an approximate 1:1 ratio of the original and omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) variant strains. The bivalent finished product is filled at 2.25 mL fill volume, is 
administered without dilution providing 6 doses at 30 μg RNA/dose in 0.3 mL injection volume. Each 
strain, original and omicron (BA.4/BA.5), is present at approximately 15 μg/dose. 
Two active substances are utilized in the bivalent vaccine, the original active substance and omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) active substance. The original and omicron active substances are combined in an 
approximately 1:1 ratio by mixing prior to LNP formation. 
The formulation of the bivalent vaccine includes four lipids as well as some other excipients that are 
identical with the composition of the currently approved original vaccine of Comirnaty in the 
Tris/sucrose formulation. 
A revised QTPP has been developed for the bivalent vaccine. No changes have been made compared to 
the QTPP for the original vaccine in Tris/sucrose formulation except for a reflection of the use of two 
strains of mRNA, the inclusion of RNA ratio as a quality attribute and that the claimed shelf-life is 12 
months. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 11/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table P.2-1. Quality Target Product Profile – BNT162b2 Bivalent [Original and Omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5) Variant] Finished Product 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 12/65 
 
 
 
 
According to the applicant, no change in physicochemical properties, processability and stability is 
expected for the bivalent vaccine compared to the original vaccine in the Tris/sucrose formulation. This 
is agreed to. 
Furthermore, information has been provided to demonstrate that physicochemical characteristics are 
similar across the active substances and are not impacted by minor changes in mRNA sequence or 
length associated with a new construct. As the solution properties of the active substances are similar, 
data provided in Table P.2-2 provides additional evidence that data collected using Omicron BA.1 in a 
bivalent vaccine can be considered representative of expected results for a bivalent vaccine containing 
Omicron BA.4/BA.5. This is also agreed to. 
A development history and lot genealogy and usage of the bivalent vaccine has been provided. An 
initial supportive clinical finished product lot (22-DP-01216, Pfizer Andover) and a commercial scale 
confirmatory finished product lot (GH9545, Pfizer, Puurs) has been manufactured. 
The original and bivalent finished product manufacturing processes have identical unit operations and 
the processing parameters for these steps are maintained. The only difference to the manufacturing 
processes is the active substance dilution step and a confirmatory lot was manufactured to 
demonstrate acceptability of this step. 
The LNP and finished product formulations and processes have remained the same throughout 
development of the original vaccine except for necessary changes to the scale as development 
progressed from initial clinical supplies to commercial manufacture, and changes related to the 
introduction of the Tris/sucrose formulation from the PBS/sucrose formulation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 13/65 
 
 
 
 
Comparability has previously been acceptably demonstrated between clinical and commercial scale 
original finished product, between various manufacturing sites and between the PBS/sucrose finished 
product and Tris/sucrose finished product via comprehensive studies including both release testing and 
extended characterization testing. Due to the application of the same formulation, manufacturing 
process, and the use of the same manufacturing sites as the original finished product, extensive prior 
experience is leveraged. Comparability has been established between the bivalent vaccine finished 
product to the original finished product based on an evaluation of release testing results against the 
acceptance criteria in the finished product specification as well as via extended characterization testing 
including studies of size distribution and particle shape (AF4-MALS-QELS), surface charge (zeta 
potential) and surface PEG (one-dimensional proton NMR spectroscopy). Comparability has been 
sufficiently demonstrated between the bivalent vaccine finished product and the original vaccine 
finished product and this conclusion is valid for both the bivalent vaccine finished product including the 
original and omicron BA.1 strains and bivalent vaccine finished product including the original and 
omicron BA.4/BA.5 strains. 
For the bivalent vaccine, batch analysis data are provided in section 3.2.P.5.4 for the batches 
manufactured to date, i.e. for a commercial scale confirmatory batch (GH9545) and a supportive 
clinical finished product lot (22-DP-01216). Both these batches met the specification acceptance 
criteria in place at the time of testing. The applicant commits to update section P.5.4 with the batch 
data for the batches GH9545 and 22-DP-01216 during the procedure. This is found acceptable. 
The process used to manufacture the bivalent finished product is essentially the same as the validated 
process used to manufacture the original vaccine in the Tris/sucrose formulation. 
The bivalent finished product requires both active substances to be combined in an approximately 1:1 
ratio, whereas the original vaccine uses a single active substance. Process parameters utilized for 
mixing the diluted active substance in the original vaccine are applied to the mixing of the diluted 
active substances of the bivalent vaccine and result in a homogeneous solution, as the original and 
omicron active substances have very similar solution properties.  
Results from mixing studies and characterization data have been provided demonstrating the ability to 
apply the existing validated manufacturing process parameters from the original vaccine to the 
bivalent finished product giving a homogeneous finished product with the desired quality attributes for 
three lots of the bivalent vaccine finished product including the original and omicron BA.1 strains, 
results presented in variation Comirnaty II-140. For this variation Comirnaty II-143, the applicant 
argues that no mixing data are needed for the bivalent vaccine including original and omicron 
BA.4/BA.5 strains due to the fact that the active substance physicochemical properties are similar 
across the original, omicron BA.1, and omicron BA.4/BA.5 strains and therefore, the data collected to 
support the bivalent original and omicron BA.1 finished product is considered applicable to the bivalent 
original and omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant finished product. In addition, the applicant has provided two 
additional commercial scale batches of DP where the RNA ratio remains within 2% of the target value 
of 1:1 for the RNA ratio. This is found acceptable. 
The control strategy for bivalent finished product is based upon the control strategy for the original 
vaccine in the Tris/Sucrose formulation. 
All quality attributes and controls described for the original vaccine in the Tris/Sucrose formulation are 
still applicable to the bivalent finished product. In addition, RNA Ratio is introduced as a quality 
attribute specific to the bivalent finished product. Furthermore, it can be noted that the weight of 
original and the weight of omicron active substance has been categorized as a CPP with a set-point to 
achieve an approximate 1:1 ratio by mass. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 14/65 
 
 
 
The analytical testing strategy for the bivalent finished product identity and RNA ratio testing uses a 
method based on reverse transcription droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR). This method 
is described in section 3.2.P.5.2 and validation data provided in section 3.2.P.5.3. The ddPCR-method 
is also included in the finished product specifications document in section 3.2.P.5.1 for the use in 
release testing of finished product. See section 3.2.P.5 for assessors comments. 
Sections P.2.4, P.2.5 and P.2.6 have not been updated for the bivalent BA.4/BA.5 vaccine (procedure 
no EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0143) compared to the bivalent BA.1 vaccine (procedure no 
EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0140). 
The container closure system is a 2 mL Type I borosilicate or aluminosilicate glass vial and a 13 mm 
bromobutyl rubber stopper and is the same container closure system as for the already approved 
Tris/sucrose finished product of Comirnaty. See section 3.2.P.7 for further information. 
Sufficient information has been provided in section P.2.5 with respect to microbiological attributes. 
Acceptable information from compatibility studies has been provided in section P.2.6. 
In conclusion, the information provided in section P.2.3, P.2.4, P.2.5 and P.2.6 is found sufficient and 
acceptable. 
Manufacture (CTD module 3.2.P.3) 
The bivalent BA.4/BA.5 vaccine is manufactured at manufacturing sites, and using the same platform 
process, as currently approved for the original Comirnaty Tris/Sucrose vaccine formulation 
(EU/1/20/1528/002-005), including the LNP bulk manufacturer Allergopharma added for the original 
Tris/Sucrose vaccine in variation EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0134/G. The GMP compliance of these sites has 
been previously confirmed. 
The manufacturing process consist of LNP fabrication, bulk finished product formation, sterile filtration 
and aseptic filling. There are no changes in the manufacturing except for the first step including 
thawing and mixing of active substance. In the manufacture of the bivalent vaccine both original and 
omicron (BA.4/BA.5) strains are combined to an approximately 1:1 ratio by mass. Similar controls 
during manufacturing and similar hold timed are applied for both original and bivalent finished product. 
The manufacturing process is considered sufficiently described including acceptable in-process controls 
(IPCs) and hold times. 
The maximum commercial batch size is XX L of bivalent finished product solution, corresponding to 
approximately vials. A batch size range of XX – YY L may be used. The batch size range is similar to 
the approved original Tris/Sucrose vaccine. 
No process validation is performed for the bivalent BA.4/BA.5 vaccine. A mixing study to evaluate 
homogeneity is performed and data are provided in section P.2.3. Three batches of the bivalent BA.1 
vaccine were studied at the beginning, middle and end of the filling process confirming a homogeneous 
mixing of original and omicron BA.1 strains. The results are presented in variation 
EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0140 for the bivalent BA.1 vaccine. No mixing data are provided for the bivalent 
BA.4/BA.5 vaccine. This is found acceptable provided that additional data to confirm homogeneity for 
the bivalent BA4/BA.5 vaccine is provided.  
Control of excipients (CTD module 3.2.P.4) 
The bivalent BA.4/BA.5 vaccine uses the same excipients as the currently approved Comirnaty vaccine 
(Tris/Sucrose formulation). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 15/65 
 
 
 
The lipid nanoparticle (LNP) consists of two functional lipids; a cationic lipid (ALC-0315) and a 
PEGylated lipid (ALC-0159) and two structural lipids; DSPC and cholesterol. Other excipients are 
sucrose, tromethamine (Tris base), Tris HCl and water. Processing aids used during manufacturing are 
ethanol, citric acid monohydrate, sodium hydroxide, HEPES and EDTA. All excipients are sufficiently 
controlled in accordance with in-house specifications and/or Ph. Eur. monographs. 
Control of finished product (CTD module 3.2.P.5) 
The finished product specifications for the bivalent vaccine finished product presented in Table P.5-1 
include tests for tests for Appearance (Visual), Appearance (Visible Particulates), Subvisible Particles 
(Ph. Eur.), pH (Ph. Eur.), Osmolality (Osmometry), LNP Size (Dynamic Light Scattering), LNP 
Polydispersity (Dynamic Light Scattering), RNA Encapsulation (Fluorescence assay), RNA content 
(Fluorescence assay), RNA ratio (ddPCR), ALC-0315 content (HPLC-CAD, HPLC-ELSD), ALC-0159 
content (HPLC-CAD, HPLC-ELSD), DSPC content (HPLC-CAD, HPLC-ELSD), Cholesterol content (HPLC-
CAD, HPLC-ELSD), extractable volume (Ph. Eur.), Lipid identities (HPLC-CAD, HPLC-ELSD), Identity of 
encoded RNA sequence (ddPCR), Potency / in Vitro Expression (Cell-based flow cytometry), RNA 
Integrity (Capillary Gel Electrophoresis), Bacterial Endotoxin (Ph. Eur.), Sterility (Ph. Eur.) and 
Container Closure Integrity (Dye incursion).  
The comprehensive set of relevant tests with corresponding acceptance criteria and are based on those 
established for the original finished product for the majority of the test attributes. The acceptance 
criteria for release and stability testing of the bivalent finished product are the same as for the original 
vaccine for all quality attributes except for the RNA ratio that is related to the mixing of the original 
and omicron (BA.4/BA.5) strains. 
Since the acceptance criteria for the bivalent vaccine finished product are based on the currently 
approved original vaccine finished product for the majority of test attributes, these acceptance criteria 
for test attributes are considered as clinically qualified to ensure quality, efficacy and safety. 
For the RNA ratio, a limit for the original and the omicron strains is proposed which, however, is not 
supported by the submitted batch data. No additional justification is provided. It is acknowledged that 
the experience is limited to one finished product lot, manufactured from one active substance batch, 
and the current specifications provide adequate assurance on the ratio. Therefore, when a sufficient 
number of BNT162b2 Bivalent vaccine (Wildtype and Omicron BA.4/BA.5) finished product batches are 
manufactured, the MAH has provided a commitment to reassess and optimise the proposed 
specification for the RNA ratio by Q2 2023. (REC 3) 
In the control of BNT162b2 Bivalent (Wildtype and Omicron BA.4/5) finished product, a droplet digital 
Polymerase Chain Reaction (ddPCR) method is proposed for determination of the identity of encoded 
RNA sequences and of the RNA ratio in the bivalent vaccine. The ddPCR technology is a digital form of 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) that uses a water-in-oil emulsion system to quantify target nucleic 
acids. Thousands of nanoliter sized droplets are formed from each sample, and PCR amplification is 
then performed on each droplet. Post amplification, fluorescence is measured in order to detect the 
number of positive and negative droplets. It is acknowledged that ddPCR technology permits a superior 
quantification of low expressing/abundant targets and is less sensitive to low amounts of impurities 
possibly present in the reaction solution. The technical procedure is considered adequately described 
and the suitability of the method for the intended purpose is sufficiently justified. 
The method has been validated under BTx PharmSci ARD, USA, Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) Quality 
Control (QC) with adequate results obtained at Grange Castle (GC), Ireland and PGS QC in Andover 
(AND), MA, USA. The method is therefore considered transferred to PGS GC and PGS AND through this 
co-validation exercise.  The performance of the test method was evaluated against a set of defined 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 16/65 
 
 
 
acceptance criteria for an ‘assay’ analytical procedure (RNA ratio) and an ‘identification’ analytical 
procedure for bivalent finished product, including precision (repeatability and reproducibility), 
accuracy, linearity, range (25%-75%) and specificity. Furthermore, the method is currently transferred 
from Pfizer-ARD to BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH (Mainz) and BioNTech IMFS GmbH. Parameters, 
experimental design and acceptance criteria for the transfer exercise are provided and considered 
adequate.  The successful completion of the analytical validation defined here will provide assurance 
that the analytical procedure is suitable for its intended use and is established at the additional 
laboratory. The approach is endorsed. 
The Cell-based flow cytometry analytical procedure is used for determining in vitro expression of the 
SARS-CoV-2 S2 antigen in bivalent vaccine finished product transfected human embryonic kidney 
(HEK293T) cells. The method is identical with analytical procedure used for potency determination of 
the original vaccine, with the exception of the primary and secondary antibodies used in the flow 
cytometry analysis. To show that the method is suitable for its intended purpose, its performance was 
evaluated against a set of defined acceptance criteria for specificity and detection limit. Additional 
method characteristics including intermediate precision and reproducibility were also evaluated as part 
of the validation. Intermediate precision was determined for Biotherapeutics Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Analytical Research and Development lab, which includes two locations (Andover and Chesterfield).  
Reproducibility was determined across all labs involved in the validation exercise. Based on the data 
provided, this method is considered validated at the laboratories that participated in the execution of 
the validation: BTx PharmSci ARD-BIT (Bioassay and Impurity Testing) Andover, MA, USA, BTx 
PharmSci ARD-BIT (Bioassay and Impurity Testing) Chesterfield, MO, USA, Pfizer Global Supply (PGS)-
Quality Control (QC) in Grange Castle (GC), Ireland, PGS-QC in Andover (AND), MA, USA. and 
BioNTech Innovative Manufacturing Services GmbH, Idar-Oberstein, Germany. 
Batch analysis data for the bivalent vaccine finished product have been provided for one confirmatory 
commercial scale batch (GH9545, Pfizer, Puurs) via a certificate of analysis, a supportive clinical batch 
(22-DP-01216 - Pfizer Andover) as well as for two additional commercial scale batches (GH9702 and 
GJ5342). All results provided met the acceptance criteria at the time of release. The applicant has 
updated section P.5.4. 
In addition, stability studies have been initiated for the supportive batch 22-DP-01216 and for the 
confirmatory commercial scale batch GH9545. 
This is found acceptable.  
The active substance reference material detailed in Section 3.2.S.5.1 is also used for the finished 
product. Reference material for the lipids (ALC-0315, ALC-0159, DSPC and cholesterol) is identical to 
the original approved Tris/Sucrose finished product. This is found acceptable. 
Container closure system (CTD module 3.2.P.7) 
The container closure system is the same as for the original Tris/Sucrose vaccine. No new information 
is provided. The bivalent vaccine is filled in type 1 borosilicate glass or aluminosilicate glass vials with 
bromobutyl rubber stoppers and aluminium vial seal. 
Stability (CTD module 3.2.P.8) 
The proposed shelf-life for the bivalent vaccine finished product is 12 months when stored at the 
recommended storage temperature of -90 to -60 °C, including short term storage at 5 ± 3°C for up to 
10 weeks (within the 12-month shelf-life). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 17/65 
 
 
 
The proposed shelf-life is based on the shelf-life for the original Tris/sucrose finished product, which is 
based on stability data obtained at the intended storage condition (-90 to -60 °C) as well as the 
accelerated storage conditions (5 ± 3°C) during primary stability studies. Release data are available 
for the bivalent finished product from the clinical lot (22-DP-01216) and commercial scale confirmatory 
lot (GH9545) at the intended storage condition (-90 to -60 °C) as well as at the accelerated storage 
conditions (5 ± 3°C). These stability studies are currently on-going and data from these studies will be 
used to confirm the shelf shelf-life of the bivalent finished product. The original Tris/sucrose studies 
are also on-going and will be used to extend the shelf life based on the acceptability of the data. 
This approach to extrapolate the shelf-life from the already authorized original vaccine to the bivalent 
vaccine finished product is found acceptable since comparability has previously been acceptably 
demonstrated for a number of various comparisons of Comirnaty finished product such as between 
clinical and commercial scale original finished product, between various manufacturing sites and 
between the PBS/sucrose finished product and the Tris/sucrose finished product. Comparability has 
been demonstrated via comprehensive studies including both release testing and extended 
characterization testing. Due to the application of the same formulation, manufacturing process, and 
the use of the same manufacturing sites as the original finished product, extensive prior experience is 
leveraged for the bivalent finished product and comparability previously convincingly proven and 
concluded. 
Therefore, the proposed shelf-life for the bivalent vaccine finished product of 12 months is agreed 
when stored at the recommended storage temperature of -90 to -60 °C, including a short-term storage 
at 5 ± 3°C for up to 10 weeks (within the 12-month shelf-life). This is in-line with the wording in 
section 6.3 in the SmPC. 
This is found acceptable. 
Post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment 
The applicant confirms that the identical Post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment in 
section 3.2.P.8.2 is valid for the bivalent vaccine finished product including original and omicron 
BA.4/BA.5 strains as for the bivalent vaccine finished product including original and omicron BA.1 
strains. 
This is found acceptable. 
Appendices (CTD module 3.2.A) 
Not applicable. 
3.5 Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
3.6 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 18/65 
 
 
 
 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
3.7 Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
1.  The MAH should provide information on the theoretical protein sizes of the mature protein and 
variants thereof. In addition, the MAH should update the dossier with Figure 1. BNT162 Omicron 
(BA.4/BA.5)  Expressed  Protein  Size  by  In  Vitro  Translation,  as  provided  in  response  to  the 
request for supplementary information. 
2.  The MAH should provide long term and accelerated stability data for the 1-month time point for 
active substance batch GH5745. 
3.  The  MAH  should  reassess  and  optimise  the  proposed  specification  for  the  RNA  ratio,  when  a 
sufficient number of BNT162b2 Bivalent (Wildtype and Omicron) Finished Product batches have 
been manufactured. 
4.  Non-clinical aspects 
4.1 Introduction 
With this type II variation, the MAH has submitted data from studies on immunogenicity in mice with 
variant vaccines, to support an approval of the BA4/BA5 bivalent vaccine. No further safety studies 
have been performed, since safety studies performed for the initial MAA are considered relevant for 
this variant vaccine, only differing in the sequence of the spike protein. 
4.2 Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
Beta Variant-modified Vaccine 
A monovalent Beta (B.1.351) variant-modified vaccine was administered to naïve Balb/c mice as a 
two-dose primary series and serum neutralization responses were evaluated in validated recombinant 
SARS-CoV-2 USA-WA-1/2020 (reference strain) and Beta variant neutralization assays. These are the 
same assays as were used for clinical testing of the Beta-modified vaccine (Study C4591001). The 
BNT162b2 Beta vaccine elicited substantial increases in Beta neutralizing titers and more modest 
increases in reference strain neutralizing titers following a 2-dose primary series (Figure 2.4.2-3). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 19/65 
 
 
 
The Beta-modified vaccine was also tested as a 3rd dose booster in BNT162b2-experienced mice. 
Reference strain and Beta neutralizing titers were substantially increased following a Beta vaccine 3rd 
dose booster, with a trend for higher responses elicited for the Beta variant compared to the reference 
strain (Figure 2.4.2-4). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 20/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Omicron BA.1 Variant-modified Vaccine 
The BNT162b2 prototype vaccine and monovalent or bivalent BNT162b2 Omicron BA.1 variant-
modified vaccines were tested as a two dose primary series in naïve Balb/c mice and as a 3rd dose 
booster in BNT162b2-experienced Balb/c mice to assess if preclinical immunogenicity might emulate 
immunogenicity trends in humans. Sera were collected 1 month following a two dose primary series 
(Day 0 and Day 21) or 1 month after a 3rd dose and evaluated in a non-validated pseudovirus 
neutralization assay using VSV-pseudotyped viruses bearing the indicated SARS-CoV-2 spike. 
As was observed in Study C4591031 Substudy D Cohort 3, an Omicron monovalent primary series 
elicited an effective but Omicron-focused response in naïve mice, with limited neutralization of other 
VOCs (Beta, Delta) or the Wuhan reference strain. The bivalent Omicron-modified vaccine elicited a 
broad neutralizing response against Omicron and other VOCs and the reference strain, suggesting a 
greater breadth of response against antigenically diverse SARS-CoV-2 spikes. While Omicron 
BA.4/BA.5 neutralizing responses were consistently lower and with a wider spread among individual 
animals compared to Omicron BA.1 in all vaccine groups, BA.4/BA.5 responses were significantly 
higher in monovalent and bivalent Omicron-modified vaccine groups compared to the BNT162b2 
prototype vaccine.  
When mice received 2 prior doses of BNT162b2 and were given a 3rd dose booster of an Omicron-
modified vaccine, both monovalent and bivalent Omicron-containing vaccines provided increases in 
Omicron BA.1 neutralizing titers and comparable increases in Wuhan, Beta, and Delta neutralizing 
responses compared to the prototype vaccine. In clinical Study C4591031, reference strain and Delta 
neutralizing responses for Omicron-modified vaccines assessed as a 4th dose booster (in individuals 
that received 3 prior doses of BNT162b2) similarly demonstrated GMTs for the reference strain and 
Delta that were well preserved across all Omicron-modified vaccine groups. For this preclinical study, 
Omicron BA.4/BA.5 neutralizing titers were much reduced in all groups, with a slight trend for higher 
titers in the Omicron-modified vaccine groups. A similar neutralizing response profile was observed in 
humans, where BA.4/BA.5 was neutralized to a lesser extent compared to BA.1 with numerically higher 
BA.4/BA.5 neutralizing GMTs in the Omicron-modified vaccine groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 21/65 
 
 
 
 
Omicron BA.4/BA.5 Variant-modified Vaccine 
The monovalent or bivalent Omicron BA.4/BA.5 variant-modified vaccines were tested as a two dose 
primary series in naïve Balb/c mice and as a 3rd dose booster in BNT162b2-experienced Balb/c mice. 
Sera were collected 1 month following a two dose primary series (vaccinations on Day 0 and Day 21) 
of the BNT162b2 prototype vaccine and 7 days after a 3rd dose of either a monovalent or bivalent 
BA.4/BA.4 variant-modified vaccine. Sera were tested in the non-validated SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus 
neutralization assay. Initial immunization of a two dose primary series of BNT162b2 at 0.5 µg dose 
level to establish the cohort of BNT162b2-experienced mice (Groups 4 and 5) showed a high 
neutralizing antibody response against the Wuhan strain and substantially lower neutralizing titers 
against Omicron BA.1, BA.2, and BA.4/BA.5. In contrast to the clear reduction in BA.4/BA.5 
neutralization observed in prior studies following a 3rd dose booster with the BA.1-modified vaccine or 
BNT162b2 prototype vaccine, a BA.4/BA.5 booster elicited substantially higher BA.4/BA.5 neutralizing 
titers and a more consistent response across Omicron sublineages (Figure 2.4.2-7). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 22/65 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3 Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The mouse immunogenicity studies performed by the MAH are of an explorative nature. They are not 
considered pivotal for this variation but give support to that the BA4/BA5 bivalent vaccine is likely to 
induce a higher antibody response to BA5 than the BA1 bivalent vaccine. Most importantly however, 
the approval of a BA4/BA5 vaccine should primarily be based on the scientific reasoning that a vaccine 
most similar to the currently dominating virus strain would be the best option for boosting the immune 
response. 
Data are presented with variant-modified vaccines carrying Beta, Omicron BA1 and Omicron BA4/BA5. 
The data shows in all cases a robust neutralizing antibody response to the variant matched to the 
vaccine. Of particular importance for this submission were the findings after boosting with the bivalent 
BA1 vaccine. Similar to clinical data there was a stronger response to BA1 than to BA4/BA5. With the 
BA4/BA5 bivalent vaccine a balanced response to the different Omicron variants tested was observed 
with essentially a similar response to BA1 and BA4/BA5. 
There are some limitations to these data. The comparison between the BA1 bivalent vaccine and the 
BA4/BA5 was not made within a study but is based on a cross-study comparison. However, the similar 
protocol for the studies with similar time intervals between primary series and booster dose and the 
same assay for neutralizing antibodies give some reassurance that the comparison is valid. While 
extrapolation from studies in experimental animals to the human situation always should be made with 
caution, in this case the study is focused on the antibody repertoire generated after immunisation. It is 
reasonable to believe that the selection of B-cells and the affinity maturation that is generated by 
somatic mutations in the IgG variable genes is a mechanism that is likely to be acting similarly, 
irrespective of species. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 23/65 
 
 
 
 
4.4 Conclusions on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the non-clinical immunogenicity data are supporting that a BA4/BA5 
bivalent vaccine may give a stronger immune response to BA5 than the BA1 bivalent vaccine. 
5.  Clinical aspects 
5.1 Clinical efficacy 
No new clinical studies concerning efficacy or immunogenicity were included in the current application. 
Efficacy is extrapolated from the original approval (Comirnaty) and approval of another bivalent 
variant-adapted vaccine (Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.1 (15/15) micrograms/dose).  
Efficacy of primary and booster doses of the original Comirnaty have been demonstrated in clinical 
efficacy studies in subjects from 12 years of age. In addition, immunogenicity data support the efficacy 
of a bivalent original/omicron BA.1 vaccine, which has been approved from 12 years of age recently. 
The bivalent Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.1 vaccine induced superior antibody titres to BA.1 
compared to the original Comirnaty, and non-inferior response to the Wuhan strain.  
Therefore, the CHMP has agreed that it can be assumed that a bivalent original /omicron BA.5 will 
induce superior antibody responses to omicron BA.5 and non-inferior responses to the original strain, 
compared to the original vaccine.  
Immunogenicity data to confirm this assumption are expected post-approval. 
In addition, pre-clinical data support that the BA.5 variant-adapted mRNA can induce antibodies 
against omicron BA.5 (see section 2.3). 
The CHMP considers that the following measures are considered necessary to address issues related to 
efficacy: the delivery of immunogenicity and safety data from study C4591044 (see section 8). 
5.2 Clinical safety 
There are no human reactogenicity or safety data for Original/BA.5. Rather, the inference of acceptable 
safety is based on extrapolation from the several different variant vaccines that have been studied. 
Apart from the very extensive safety database for Comirnaty Original, the following data are 
considered pertinent to the extrapolation of safety. 
5.2.1 Studies C4591031 Substudy D and E, C4591001 
•  Original/BA.1 15/15 µg - C4591031 substudy E 
Methods 
In this randomized, observer-blinded study the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of monovalent 
BNT162b2 “Original” (30 and 60 μg), monovalent Omicron BA.1 “BA.1” (30 and 60 μg), and bivalent 
combination of Original and BA.1 (15/15µg and 30/30µg) given as a single fourth dose was evaluated.  
The median time from dose 3 to study vaccination was 6,3 months (range 5-13 months). A majority 
(89%) had a duration of follow up of ≥1-<2 months after administration of the booster dose. This 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 24/65 
 
 
 
interim safety data from 1841 subjects >55 years of age has been evaluated in 
EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0140. No data from subjects <55 years of age have been presented yet. The 
study was conducted in US. The reactogenicity data is summarized below. 
Reactogenicity  
Local reactions   
Pain at injection site was the most frequently reported local reaction within 7 days after study 
vaccination, with swelling and redness at the injection site reported much less frequently. Frequency of 
injection site pain was slightly higher for participants in the following groups Original 60µg, BA.1 60µg, 
and Original/BA.1 30/30µg. 
Most local reactions were mild or moderate in severity. Severe local reactions were reported 
infrequently in all vaccine groups; severe events after study vaccination included injection site pain 
(0.3%), swelling (0.2%) and redness (0.3%). No Grade 4 local reactions were reported in any vaccine 
groups evaluated. 
The median onset for all local reactions across vaccine groups evaluated was 2 days, and all events 
resolved within a median duration of 1 to 2 days after onset. 
Figure 1. Participants Reporting Local Reactions, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After the Study Vaccination – 
Expanded Cohort – Participants>55 Years of Age – Safety Population
Systemic reactions 
Fatigue was the most frequently reported systemic event, followed by headache, and less frequently 
chills, muscle and joint pain (Figure 2). Most systemic events were mild or moderate in severity. 
Severe events were relatively more frequent in the BNT162b2 OMI 60 μg group. Overall, across all 
groups, severe events after study vaccination included fatigue (2.2%), headache (0.9%), chills 
(0.6%), muscle pain (0.6%), diarrhoea (0.3%) and joint pain (0.2%). No Grade 4 systemic events 
were reported in any vaccine groups evaluated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 25/65 
 
 
 
 
Fever >38.9 °C to 40.0 °C was reported by 3 and 4 participants in the BNT162b2 OMI 30 μg and 60 μg 
groups, respectively: 4 and 2 participants in the BNT162b2 + BNT162b2 OMI 30 μg and 60 μg groups, 
respectively. Fever >40.0 °C was reported by 1 participant in the BNT162b2 60 μg group. 
Antipyretic or pain medication were used at similar frequency for the subject that received 
Original/BA.1 15/15µg (29%) as for the subject that received Original 30µg (27%). A slightly higher 
frequency was noted for the subject that received the Original/BA.1 30/30µg vaccine (35%). 
Figure 2. Participants Reporting Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After the Study 
Vaccination – Expanded Cohort – Participants>55 Years of Age – Safety Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 26/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events 
Table 1. Number (%) of Participants Reporting at Least 1 Adverse Event From the Study Vaccination Through 
Cutoff Date – Expanded Cohort – Participants>55 Years of Age – Safety Population 
Many AEs were consistent with reactogenicity events that were reported as AEs (eg,  
injection site pain, diarrhoea, and pyrexia). There were no reported events of myocarditis or 
pericarditis (protocol-defined AESIs). 
Overall, these data indicate a trend to somewhat higher reactogenicity when BA.1 is part of the 
vaccine, compared to Original. However, neither the differences in total frequency of reactions, nor of 
events classified as severe, is deemed clinically meaningful. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 27/65 
 
 
 
 
 
•  BA.1- C4591031 Substudy D 
Methods 
In this substudy, 640 subjects aged 18-55 years were randomized 1:1 to either receive Original 30µg 
or BA.1 30µg as a fourth dose administered at least 3 months (median 4 months) after dose 3. The 
majority of the included subjects was >30 years of age and only 13% (n=84) were 18-30 years old. All 
subjects, except one, had at the cut-off date 11 Mars 2022 a duration of follow-up of ≥1-<2 months 
after administration of the booster dose. The study was conducted in US. 
The interim data has been evaluated in EMEA/H/C/005735/II/0140. The reactogenicity data is 
summarized below. 
Reactogenicity 
Local reactions 
Most events were mild or moderate in severity and no grade 4 local reactions were reported. For both 
groups, the median onset for all local reactions was 1 to 2 days, and all events resolved within a 
median duration of 1 to 2 days after onset. 
Figure 3. Participants Reporting Local Reactions, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After the Study Vaccination – 
Cohort 2– Safety Population 
Systemic reactions 
The proportion of severe systemic events reported was low, and similar between the vaccine groups. 
In both the BNT162b2 OMI and BNT162b2 groups, the most frequently reported severe systemic 
events were fatigue (3.4% and 2.6% of participants, respectively) followed by headache (2.0% and 
2.0% of participants, respectively). In both groups, there was 1 participant (0.3%) with fever >38.9 
°C to 40.0 °C; there were no participants in either group with fever >40.0 °C. 
For both groups, the median onset for most systemic events was 1 to 2 days, and all events resolved 
within a median duration of 1 to 2 days after onset. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 28/65 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Participants Reporting Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After the Study 
Vaccination – Cohort 2 – Safety Population 
Adverse events 
For the AEs reported, most reflect reactogenicity events (ie, fatigue, chills, myalgia, pyrexia, headache, 
injection site pain), which accounted for the majority of severe AEs. The SOCs in which the 
reactogenicity terms are included had the following overall AE frequencies in the BNT162b2 OMI group 
versus BNT162b2 group:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
general disorders and administration site conditions: 9 (2.9%) vs 0 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: 5 (1.6%) vs 2 (0.6%) 
nervous system disorders: 4 (1.3%) vs 1 (0.3%) 
gastrointestinal disorders: 0 vs 2 (0.6%) 
From first study (Dose 4) vaccination to 1 month after Dose 4, the frequency of severe AEs was 1.3% 
for the BNT162b2 OMI group, and 0.6% for BNT162b2 groups. In the BNT162b2 OMI group, all severe 
events were reactogenicity events: fatigue, chills, arthralgia, and headache. No life-threatening (i.e., 
Grade 4) AEs were reported after Dose 4 in either vaccine group.  
Besides AEs that reflect reactogenicity events (including fatigue in 5 participants in the BNT162b2 OMI 
group), AEs reflecting lymphadenopathy included lymphadenopathy in 1 participant (0.3%) and 
3 participants (0.9%) in the BNT162b2 OMI and BNT162b2 groups, respectively, and axillary pain 
(0.3%) in 1 participant in the BNT162b2 OMI group; all other AEs were reported in ≤3 participants 
across vaccine groups. Lymphadenopathy has previously been identified as a reaction caused by 
BNT162b2. 
There were no cases of myocarditis reported. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 29/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  BNT162b2 SA (beta) - C4591001 
Primary vaccination-naïve population 
In total, 333 subjects aged 18-55 years (median 36 years) received BNT162b2 SA 30µg as a primary 
vaccination. Most of the subjects (93%) had a follow-up time of ≥8-<10 months at the cut-off date 22 
Nov 20211. The study was conducted in US. The reactogenicity is summarized below. 
Local reactions 
Pain at the injection site was the most frequently reported local reaction, as illustrated in the table 
below.  After the first and second dose, most local reactions were mild or moderate in severity. Severe 
local reactions were reported infrequently, and no Grade 4 local reactions were reported. Median onset 
for all local reactions after either dose of BNT162b2SA 30 μg was 1-2 days. 
Figure 5. Subjects Reporting Local Reactions, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Each Dose – Phase 3 – 
BNT162b2-Naïve Subjects – Safety Population 
Systemic reactions 
Use of antipyretic/pain medication was greater after Dose 2 of BNT162b2SA 30 μg compared with Dose 
1 (31.6% and 18.8%, respectively), showing the same pattern of higher reactogenicity for dose 2, as 
was seen for Comirnaty Original.  
Most systemic events were mild or moderate in severity, and severe systemic events were reported 
infrequently (≤4.1%) after any dose.  
Median onset for all systemic events after either dose was Day 1.0 to Day 4.5 (Day 1 was the  
day of vaccination). Systemic events resolved after each dose with a median duration of 1-2 days. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 30/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Subjects Reporting Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Each Dose – Phase 3 – 
BNT162b2-Naïve Subjects – Safety Population 
Adverse events 
From Dose 1 to 1 month after Dose 2 of BNT162b2SA 30 μg, the frequency of participants  
with any AE was 46 (14.2%).  
The most frequently reported AE from Dose 1 to 1 month after Dose 2 of BNT162b2SA 30 μg was 
fatigue, in 10/324 participants (3.1%)). Most other AEs reported during this period reflect 
reactogenicity events reported by the investigator as AEs.  
Lymphadenopathy was reported in 2/324 participants (0.6%) from Dose 1 to 6 months after Dose 2. 
Both events were assessed by the investigator as related to study intervention, and both events  
recovered/resolved within 1 week of onset.  
One participant reported an AE of iritis on the second day from Dose 1 of BNT162b2SA 30 μg, which 
was assessed by the investigator as related to study intervention, and the event lasted for 23 days. 
One participant reported an AE of type 1 diabetes mellitus on the 11th day from Dose 2 of 
BNT162b2SA 30 μg: A participant with a normal BMI in the 25 to 34 years age group reported two AEs 
of hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus type 1 with onset 11 days post-Dose 2 of BNT162b2SA 30 µg. 
The participant had no recorded past medical history or positive family history of diabetes. The 
diagnosis as confirmed by the site was made by an endocrinologist based on a GAD65 level of 60.4 
and a c-peptide of 0.5. The source documentation stated a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus type 1.5, 
however the reported term reported in the clinical database is diabetes mellitus type 1. The 
investigator did not consider the event to be related to study intervention.  
One participant reported an AE of diabetes mellitus 103 days from Dose 2 BNT162b2SA 30 μg. A 
participant with an overweight (almost obese) BMI in the 45 to 54 years age group reported an AE of 
diabetes mellitus 103 days post-Dose 2 of BNT162b2SA 30 µg. The participant had no past medical 
history of diabetes reported, however the investigator considered the participant’s BMI and positive 
family history of diabetes as predisposing factors and confirmed that the diagnosis was made 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 31/65 
 
 
 
 
incidentally on a routine annual check-up and there were no symptoms of diabetes mellitus reported. 
The event was considered not related to study intervention by the investigator. 
There were no cases of myocarditis reported. 
One booster dose with either BNT162b2 or BNT162b2 SA 
In total, 625 subjects aged 19-62 years (median 43 years) that had previously received BNT162b2 
30µg as primary vaccination, were randomized to either receive one booster dose of BNT162b2 30µg 
(n=312) or BNT162b2 SA 30µg (n=313). Reactogenicity data is available for BNT162b2 30µg (n=289) 
and BNT162b2 SA 30µg (n=298). 
The majority received their booster dose ≥6 months after dose 2. Most of the subjects (97%) had a 
follow-up time of ≥8 months at the cut-off date 22 Nov 2021.  
The study was conducted in US.  
Local reactions 
After Dose 3, most local reactions were mild or moderate in severity. Severe local reactions were 
reported infrequently. No Grade 4 local reactions were reported in either group. Median onset for all 
local reactions after Dose 3 was Day 1-2. (Day 1 was the day of vaccination) and resolved with a 
median duration of 1-2 days. 
Figure 7. Subjects Reporting Local Reactions, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Each Dose – Phase 3 – 
BNT162b2-Experienced Subjects Who Were Rerandomized to Receive 1 Booster Dose (30µg) – Booster Safety 
Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 32/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Local Reactions, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Booster Dose – Phase 3 – BNT162b2-
Eperienced Subjects Who Were Rerandomized to Receive 1 Booster Dose (30 µg) – Booster Safety Population 
Systemic reactions 
After Dose 3, use of antipyretic/pain medication was similar in the BNT162b2 and BNT162b2SA groups 
(46.7% vs 45.3%, respectively).  
Most systemic events were mild or moderate in severity. Severe systemic events were reported 
infrequently, in ≤2.0% of participants for all systemic events except for severe fatigue (≤4.7%). One 
participant (0.3%) in the BNT162b2 group and 4 participants (1.3%) in the BNT162b2SA group 
reported a fever of >38.9°C to 40°C, with oral temperatures that returned to normal by the end of the 
7-day reporting period (Appendix 16.2.7.3.1). 
No Grade 4 systemic events were reported. 
In both groups, the median onset for all systemic events after Dose 3 was Day 2-4, and systemic 
events resolved within a median duration of 1-2 days. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 33/65 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Subjects Reporting Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Each Dose – Phase 3 – 
BNT162b2-Experienced Subjects Who Were Rerandomized to Receive 1 Booster Dose (30µg) – Booster Safety 
Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 34/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Booster Dose – Phase 3 – BNT162b2-
Eperienced Subjects Who Were Rerandomized to Receive 1 Booster Dose (30 µg) – Booster Safety Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 35/65 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
From Dose 3 to 1 month after Dose 3, 46 (15.0%) and 34 (10.8%) BNT162b2-experienced  
participants who were rerandomized and received one 30-μg booster dose reported at least  
1 AE in the BNT162b2 and BNT162b2SA groups, respectively, of which 25 (8.2%) and 23 (7.3%) were 
assessed by the investigator as related to study intervention.  
One participant in the BNT162b2SA group reported an SAE of deep vein thrombosis. No AEs leading to 
withdrawal or deaths were reported. AEs from Dose 3 to 6 months after Dose 3 were generally similar 
in the BNT162b2 and BNT162b2SA groups. AEs were reported in 51 (16.7%) participants in the 
BNT162b2 group and 38 (12.1%) participants in the BNT162b2SA group,  
In the BNT162b2 group, the most frequently reported AE from Dose 3 to 1 month after  
Dose 3 was lymphadenopathy (16 [5.2%] participants). In the BNT162b2SA group, injection  
site pain, headache, and lymphadenopathy were most frequently reported (6 [1.9%] participants 
each). Most other AEs reported during this period reflect reactogenicity events reported by the 
investigator as AEs. No immediate events were reported within 30 minutes after Dose 3. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 36/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One or two booster doses 
Thirty subjects aged 22-55 years (median 44 years) that previously have received a primary 
vaccination with BNT162b2 30µg received BNT162b2 SA 30µg as booster dose at least 6 months after 
dose 2. All subjects received the first booster dose, and 28 subjects received the second booster dose. 
The majority of the subjects (90%) had a follow-up time of ≥6-<8 months at the cut-off date 22 Nov 
20211.  
The study was conducted in the US.  
Local reactions 
Pain at the injection site was all mild or moderate in severity. Median onset for pain at the injection 
site after Dose 3 and Dose 4 was Day 1.0 (Day 1 was the day of vaccination) and resolved with a 
median duration of 2-3 days. 
Systemic reactions 
Use of antipyretic/pain medication was similar after Dose 3 and Dose 4 of BNT162b2SA 
30 μg (50.0% vs 46.4%, respectively).  
Most systemic events were mild or moderate in severity. Severe systemic events were reported 
infrequently (1 participant for any systemic event). One participant reported a fever of >38.9°C to 
40°C after the first and second booster dose of BNT162b2SA 30 μg, with oral temperatures that 
returned to normal by the end of the first booster 7-day reporting period. No Grade 4 systemic events 
were reported. The median onset for all systemic events after Dose 3 and Dose 4 was Day 2 (Day 1 
was the day of vaccination), and systemic events resolved within a median duration of 1-2 days. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 37/65 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
From the first booster (Dose 3) to 1 month after the second booster (Dose 4), 6 (20.0%) 
BNT162b2-experienced participants who were assigned to receive two 30-μg booster doses 
reported at least 1 AE, of which 3 (10.0%) participants had AE(s) assessed by the  
investigator as related to study intervention.  
Two participants (6.7%) each reported an AE of lymphadenopathy or an AE of arthralgia  
from Dose 3 to 1 month after Dose 4. No immediate AEs were reported after Dose 3 or Dose 4. No 
additional participants reported AEs from Dose 3 to approximately 5 months after Dose 4. Both events 
of lymphadenopathy and reactogenicity events were assessed by the investigator as related to study 
intervention. One participant had a severe AE (also an SAE) of appendicitis. No life-threatening AEs or 
deaths were reported. 
There were 2 (6.7%) BNT162b2-experienced participants assigned to receive 2 booster doses who 
reported AEs leading to withdrawal from study intervention. One participant reported 
lymphadenopathy on the second day from Dose 3, which resolved approximately 1 week later, and 1 
participant reported reactogenicity AEs after Dose 3 of chills, fatigue, injection site pain, arthralgia, and 
myalgia, which all resolved within 3 days after onset. 
•  Safety Summary of Studies C4591001, C4591031 Substudy D and E 
In conclusion, the safety of studies C4591001, C4591031 Substudy D and E is summarised in the two 
tables below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 38/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Participants Reporting Local Reactions and Systematic Events Within 7 Days Post Dose 3 or 
Dose 4 of BNT162b2, Monovalent BNT162b2 OMI, Bivalent BNT162b2+BNT162b2 OMI or BNT162Btsa 
at 30 µg Dose Level in Studies C4591001, Studies C4591031 Substudy D and C4591031 Substudy E 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 39/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5.  Number (%) of Participants Reporting at Least 1 Adverse Event From Dose 3 or Dose 4 to 1 Month After 
Dose 3 or Dose 4 of BNT162b2, Monovalent BNT162b2 OMI, Bivalent BNT162b2+BNT162b2 OMI or BNT162BtSA at 
30 µg Dose Level in Studies C4591001, Studies C4591031 Substudy D and C4591031 Substudy E 
5.2.2 Study BNT162 - monovalent delta and bivalent alpha/delta vaccine 
Study BNT162-17 is an ongoing (Start date: 25 August 2021) Phase 2 study. The study consists of 
three parts, Part A, Part B, and Part C, and will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of monovalent 
Delta-variant (BNT162b2 [B.1.617.2]) at 30 ug, and bivalent Alpha and Delta-variant (BNT162b2 
[B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2]) at 15ug + 15ug. 
Safety data up to 1-month post-Dose (booster [Dose 3]) for cohort 1 and 4 of part A and B of the 
study for monovalent BNT162b2 (B.1.617.2) and bivalent BNT162b2 (B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2) vaccine 
has only been presented. 
Cohort 1: BNT162b2 (B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2) – bivalent alpha/delta 
A total of 370 participants were included in the safety population for Cohort 1: 21 participants (18 to 
55 years of age) in Part A of the study and 349 participants (18 to 55 years of age: 222, 56 to 85 
years of age: 127) in Part B of the study. A total of 9 participants discontinued from the study. Most 
frequent reason for discontinuation was ‘lost to follow up’ (n=4). No participants discontinued due to 
an AE. 
Cohort 4: BNT162b2 (B.1.617.2) – monovalent delta 
A total of 372 participants were included in the safety population for Cohort 4: 20 participants (18 to 
55 years of age) in Part A of the study and 352 participants (18 to 55 years of age: 210, 56 to 85 
years of age: 142) in Part B of the study. A total of 2 participants discontinued from the study. No 
participants discontinued due to an AE. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 40/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Systemic reactions cohort 1 
Figure 11. Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days After Vaccination – Cohort 1 Participants 18 to 
85 Years of Age (Part A and Part B: Booster Dose, Dose 3) – BNT162b2 (B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2) – Reactogenicity Set 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 41/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Systemic reactions cohort 4 
Figure 12. Systematic Events, by Maximum Severity, Within 7 Days of Study Vaccination – Cohort 4 Participants 18 
to 85 Years of Age (Part A and Part B: Booster Dose, Dose 3) – BNT162b2 ( B.1.617.2) – Reactogenicity Set 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 42/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While cross-study comparisons, and particularly cross-study comparisons of AE reporting, is fraught 
with uncertainty, there appears to be a tendency that the rate of severe systemic reactions is 
somewhat higher with alpha/delta and delta compared to other variants tested.  
Adverse events 
Cohort 1: BNT162b2 (B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2) 
A total of 14.1% of participants reported any AE after study vaccination (booster dose, Dose 3) across 
both age groups (range: 7.9% to 19.0%). AEs were generally reported at a lower frequency in 56 to 
85 years of age group. There were no SAEs, AESIs or deaths reported in this cohort. 
Many AEs were consistent with reactogenicity events that were reported as AEs (e.g., injection site 
pain, fatigue, and diarrhoea), which showed no clinically meaningful imbalance between age groups. 
All AEs were mild or moderate in severity (Table 14.3.1.6_1).  
There were no reported events of myocarditis or pericarditis (protocol-defined AESIs).  
Lymphadenopathy or terms consistent with lymphadenopathy (lymphadenitis) were reported in 1.1% 
of participants. A  participant in the 45 to 54 year age group reported a nonserious event of drug 
hypersensitivity (allergic reaction to drug) with onset Day 2 of Dose 1, moderate in severity that was 
considered related to the study intervention by the investigator. The event was reported as resolved at 
the time of data cutoff date. 
Cohort 4: BNT162b2 (B.1.617.2) 
A total of 12.1% of participants reported any AE after study vaccination (booster dose, Dose 3) across 
both age groups (range: 9.9% to 15.0%). AEs were generally reported at a lower frequency in the 56 
to 85 years of age group. Related AEs were reported by 17 (4.6%) participants. There were no SAEs or 
deaths reported in this cohort.  
Many AEs were consistent with reactogenicity events that were reported as AEs (eg, injection site pain, 
fatigue, and headache), which showed no clinically meaningful imbalance age groups. Most AEs were 
mild or moderate in severity.  
Lymphadenopathy was reported in 1.3% of participants. 
One (0.3%) participant reported an AESI of myocarditis: A participant in the 25 to 34 year age group 
who had a history of a stress-induced “fluttering heart” with a normal ECG in 2020, was reported to 
have a nonserious event of myocarditis (verbatim per investigator was “probable myocarditis”). 
Approximately 36 hours (in November 2021) after being vaccinated with a booster dose of BNT162b2 
(B.1.617.2) 30 µg the participant experienced ‘persistent chest pain’ which lasted about 3 hours and 
tachycardia for approximately 13 hours for which the participant took ibuprofen 200 mg every 4 to 
6 hours from pain onset to the following day. The participant visited the site 3 days later, being 
asymptomatic and was revealed to have an elevated Troponin I (350 ng/L; upper range: 47 ng/L) and 
nonspecific ECG abnormalities (Sinus rhythm, abnormal q and Q Wave [III, V6], low voltage [chest 
leads]); an echocardiogram was normal. The event of myocarditis was considered to be recovered 
within 9 days based on normalization of troponin I level and no ECG abnormalities. The participant was 
never hospitalized. The myocarditis was assessed by the investigator and sponsor as related to 
vaccination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 43/65 
 
 
 
 
5.2.3 Study C4591044 - bivalent (Original + Omicron BA.4/BA.5) 
Study C4591044 is evaluating BNT162b2 bivalent (Original + Omicron BA.4/BA.5) vaccine in the 
United States in individuals 12 years of age and older through amendments 1 and 2. The projected 
dates provided below refer to availability of tables, listings and figures: relevant submissions will be 
planned accordingly as soon as possible following availability of TLFs and depending on the required 
submission format.  
Amendment 1 will generate descriptive safety and immunogenicity data in 500 individuals receiving 
the 30 µg bivalent (Original and Omicron BA.4/BA.5) vaccine (at least 100 in each age group: 12-
17 years, 18-55 years, >55 years) which are anticipated to be available as follows: 
1. 
2. 
7 day reactogenicity data – 29th September 2022 
1 month safety (all participants) and sentinel immunogenicity (30 participants in each age 
group 18-55 and >55 years) using non-validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization assay – end October 
2022 
3. 
1 month immunogenicity (all participants) using validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization assay –
December 2022 
Amendment 2 will be initiated in the second half of September and will generate additional safety and 
immunogenicity data in a further 400 individuals receiving the 30 µg bivalent (Original and Omicron 
BA.4/BA.5) vaccine (200 in each age group: 18-55 years, >55 years) for hypothesis-driven 
immunogenicity analyses which are anticipated to be available as follows: 
4. 
1 month safety and immunogenicity (all participants) using validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization 
assay – January 2023 
All participants will be followed for serious adverse events and immunogenicity through 6 months after 
vaccination, which will be reported in the final clinical study report. 
5.2.4 Discussion on clinical safety 
Inferences on the reactogenicity and safety of Original/BA.1 are based on extrapolation from the very 
large safety database for Comirnaty Original, as well as the broadly similar overall acceptable 
reactogenicity shown for boosting with Original and for variant vaccines including monovalent beta, 
delta and BA.1, as well as bivalent alpha/delta and Original/BA.1.  
While two randomised studies have indicated marginally greater systemic reactogenicity when BA.1 is 
a component of the vaccine, compared to Original alone, this difference is not clinically meaningful. 
Moreover, the frequency of severe systemic reactogenicity events is numerically higher when 
administering delta or alpha/delta variant vaccines, although a caveat about cross study comparisons 
is relevant:  
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 44/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Participants Reporting Local Reactions and Systematic Events Within 7 Days Post Dose 3 or Dose 4 of 
BNT162b2, Monovalent BNT162b2 OMI, Bivalent BNT162b2+BNT162b2 OMI or BNT162BtSA at 30 µg Dose Level in 
Studies C4591001, Studies C4591031 Substudy D and C4591031 Substudy E 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 45/65 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, the CHMP is of the view that it is deemed unlikely that the reactogenicity of BA5/Original 
would not be clinically acceptable. Reactogenicity data from 500 subjects 18 years and older, are 
anticipated to be delivered by the company on the 29th September. 
It is noted by the CHMP that there were two incident cases of diabetes mellitus in the study of primary 
vaccination with the beta variant: one case of treatment emergent diabetes mellitus type 1 in a 
participant in the 25 to 34 year age group, diagnosed approximately 6 weeks after the first vaccination 
with the beta variant vaccine. Another case was a case of diabetes mellitus, type not described, in an 
obese participant in the 45 to 54 year age group  with a family history of type 2 diabetes. The 
diagnosis is about four months after the first beta vaccination, and the subject is described as 
asymptomatic. While type 1 diabetes cannot be excluded, this seems improbable. 
Thus, it is not likely that there was more than one incident case of type 1 diabetes in the study. The 
CHMP is of the opinion that this does not raise a specific concern in the context of the importance of 
spike protein sequence for less common side effects. Diabetes Mellitus type 1 is not listed as an AE of 
Comirnaty, as there has been no indication so far that this is causally related to vaccination. It is 
suggested that this be followed in the PSUR cycle. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 46/65 
 
 
 
 
  
5.2.5 Conclusions on clinical safety 
In the cumulative experience of Comirnaty Original and variant vaccines with differing spike protein 
sequences, the CHMP is of the view that the reactogenicity has been acceptable at a total dose of 
30ug. It is considered unlikely that the Original/BA.4-5 would differ in this respect.  
The CHMP also noted that data on reactogenicity from ongoing study C4591044 are anticipated in 
September/October 2022.  
6.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated RMP version 7.1 (date of final sign off September 2022) with this 
application. 
The (main) proposed RMP changes were the following (reflected in purple font): 
RMP Part/Module 
RMP v 7.1 Major Changes 
PRODUCT(S) OVERVIEW 
Addition of Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5 (15/15 mcg) data according to 
the updated SmPC. 
Updated with new DLP and new data for Omicron variants. 
Minor update with animal immunogenicity data for BA.4-5 
No changes made. 
No changes made. 
SAFETY SPECIFICATION 
Epidemiology of the 
Indication(s) and Target 
Populations 
Non-Clinical Part of the 
Safety Specification 
Clinical Trial Exposure 
Populations Not Studied 
in Clinical Trials 
Post-Authorisation 
Experience 
Additional EU 
Requirements for the 
Safety Specification 
Identified and Potential 
Risks 
Summary of the Safety 
Concerns 
PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN (INCLUDING POST AUTHORISATION SAFETY STUDIES) 
Routine 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Updated with new DLP 18 June 2022. 
No changes made. 
Minor update on B/R of pregnancy/breast feeding and immunocompromised 
patients according to the updated SmPC for BA.4-5 
No changes made. 
Updated to add Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4/5 (15/15 mcg) formulation in 
the vial differentiation description. 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
and  
Summary Table of 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Inclusion of 2 new interventional studies as additional PV activity: C4591031 
and C4591044. 
Addition of updated text for C4591014 and WI255886 that will also assess the 
effectiveness of the bivalent Omicron modified vaccines following their 
introduction. 
Updates of other non-interventional studies (C4591012, C4591021 and 
C4591036) to be assessed for the feasibility of studying the bivalent Omicron 
modified vaccine 
No changes made. 
PLANS FOR POST 
AUTHORISATION 
EFFICACY STUDIES 
RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES (INCLUDING EVALUATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK 
MINIMISATION ACTIVITIES) 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 47/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine Risk 
Minimisation Measures 
Additional Risk 
Minimisation Measures 
Summary of Risk 
Minimisation Measures 
Updated based on the changes made in PART III. 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
I The Medicine and What 
It Is Used For 
Updated to include Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5 (15/15 mcg) 
Updated based on the changes made in PART III and PART V. 
II Risks Associated With 
the Medicine and 
Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the 
Risks 
ANNEXES TO THE RISK 
MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Annex 2: Studies/milestones updated  
Annex 3: Addition of the 2 new studies C4591031 and C4591044 
Annex 8: Changes to reflect the updates 
Note that relevant parts only (e.g. summary of the safety concerns, pharmacovigilance plan etc.) 
including relevant parts from the RMP covering proposed changes are reproduced in the sections 
below. All administrative and editorial changes in other parts of the RMP are accepted. 
Summary of safety concerns 
No changes were made to the Summary of safety concerns 
Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Myocarditis and Pericarditis 
Important potential risks 
Vaccine-associated enhanced disease (VAED) including Vaccine-
associated enhanced respiratory disease (VAERD) 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy and while breast feeding 
Use in immunocompromised patients 
Use in frail patients with co-morbidities (e.g., chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD], diabetes, chronic 
neurological disease, cardiovascular disorders) 
Use in patients with autoimmune or inflammatory disorders 
Interaction with other vaccines 
Long term safety data 
The MAH proposed no changes to the summary of safety concerns. 
PRAC considers the safety concerns listed above remain appropriate. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 48/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose 
Vial cap color 
and Label with 
Color Border 
Dose Volume 
Amount of 
Diluent 
Needed per 
Vial 
Fill Volume 
Doses per vial 
Formulation 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
ROUTINE PHARMACOVIGILANCE ACTIVITIES 
[…] 
Vial differentiation 
All vials have specific color flip off plastic cap and label differentiation factors: 
Table 7. Vaccine Presentation Characteristics  
Age group 
12 years and older 
INN 
Tozinameran 
Tozinameran 
Name 
Comirnaty 30 
mcg per dose  
Comirnaty 30 
mcg per dose  
DILUTE 
BEFORE USE 
DO NOT 
DILUTE 
Tozinameran/ 
Riltozinameran 
Comirnaty 
Original/Omicron 
BA.1  
Tozinameran/ 
Xxxtozinameran 
Comirnaty 
Original/Omicron 
BA.4-5  
DO NOT DILUTE 
DO NOT DILUTE 
Purple Cap 
30 mcg 
(with dilution) 
Purple 
Grey Cap 
30 mcg 
(no dilution) 
Grey 
Grey Cap 
15/15 mcg  
(no dilution) 
Grey 
Grey Cap 
15/15 mcg  
(no dilution) 
Grey 
5 through 11 
years 
Tozinameran 
Comirnaty 10 
mcg per dose  
DILUTE 
BEFORE USE,  
Orange cap 
10 mcg 
(with dilution) 
Orange 
0.3 mL 
1.8 mL 
0.3 mL 
NO DILUTION 
0.3 mL 
NO DILUTION 
0.3 mL 
NO DILUTION 
0.2 mL 
1.3 mL 
0.45 mL 
6 doses per 
vial (after 
dilution) 
PBS sucrose 
2.25 mL 
6 doses per 
vial 
2.25 mL 
6 doses per vial 
2.25 mL 
6 doses per vial 
Tris sucrose 
Tris sucrose 
Tris sucrose 
1.3 mL 
10 doses per 
vial (after 
dilution) 
Tris sucrose 
PBS = Phosphate Buffered Saline; Tris = Tromethamine Buffer or (HOCH2)3CNH 
Large scale public health approaches for vaccination may represent changes to standard vaccine 
treatment process with the use of various formulations to different healthcare settings based on age 
(i.e.. less than 12 years and above 12 years of age). This represents the likelihood of the purple and 
grey vials co-existing in the same setting. These potential medication errors are mitigated through the 
information in the label (colour of label boarder, product name on the label) and available resources 
and referenced materials for healthcare providers. 
Note that various information resources (e.g. poster, dosing card, medical information call centres, 
traceability and vaccination reminder card) were already in place and will be updated with the 
introduction of this modified vaccine. These are considered routine risk minimization measures and 
considered sufficient at this stage.  
Although all vials have specific colour flip off plastic cap and label differentiation factors, expert input 
from clinical practice raised concerns about the same colour flip off for ‘Comirnaty original’ and the new 
bivalent vaccine. With launch of the modified vaccines the MAH was requested to commit to again 
carefully monitor Medication errors and inform the Rapporteur immediately in case of any unexpected 
findings or trends (RfSI II-140). The MAH responded that they agree and confirm the commitment to 
continue monitoring medication errors as part of their routine pharmacovigilance activities. Any 
unexpected findings or trends will be duly notified to the EMA, which is accepted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 49/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL PHARMACOVIGILANCE ACTIVITIES 
The MAH proposes the following 19 studies, of which 5 global, 5 in Europe only, 6 in US only, 2 in US 
and Canada and 1 in New Zealand.  There are 8 interventional studies (C4591001, C4591007, 
C4591015, BNT162-01 Cohort 13, C4591024, C4591031, C4591044 and 1 study for vaccine 
interactions), 3 Low-Interventional studies (C4591036, WI235284 and WI255886) and 8 non-
interventional studies (7 safety and 1 effectiveness), summarised in the table below and further 
detailed in the summary table of ongoing and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
Study Number 
Country 
C4591001 
C4591007 
C4591015 
C4591024a (former Safety 
and immunogenicity in 
high-risk adults)  
Global 
Global 
Global 
Global 
C4591030 (Co-
administration study with 
seasonal influenza vaccine) 
NZ 
Interventional/ 
non-Interventional/ 
Low-Interventional 
Purpose 
Interventional 
Interventional 
Interventional 
Interventional 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Interventional 
Safety  
C4591031 
Global 
Interventional 
C4591044 
BNT162-01 Cohort 13 
C4591009 
C4591010 
C4591011 
C4591012 
C4591021 (former 
ACCESS/VAC4EU) 
C4591022 
C4591038 (former 
C4591021 substudy) 
C4591014 
WI235284 
WI255886 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
US 
EU 
US/CA 
EU 
US 
US 
EUd 
US/CA 
Interventional  
Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
non-Interventional 
Safety 
Effectiveness 
Safety 
Effectiveness 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
Safety 
non-Interventional 
Low-Interventionalc 
Low-Interventional 
Effectivenessb 
Effectiveness 
Effectiveness 
Low-Interventional 
C4591036 (former 
Pediatric Heart Network) 
a.  Based on the outcome of procedures PAM-MEA-015.2 and PAM-MEA-016, and in particular based on the 
conclusions of the Assessment Report for the Post-Authorisation Measure MEA/015.2 and MEA/016 
(EMA/CHMP/498689/2021) issued on 16 September 2021, the design of study C4591024 was agreed to 
satisfactorily cover the objectives initially planned for study C4591018, that is therefore removed from the list of 
studies 
b.  Vaccine effectiveness is not a safety concern. 
c.  The study does not involve any administration of vaccine or other Pfizer products but since a specimen 
collection procedure is required per protocol, this qualifies this study as ‘low-interventional’. 
d.  United Kingdom. 
Safety 
Non-Interventional Post-Approval Safety Studies Assessing Myocarditis/Pericarditis 
[…] 
In addition, studies C4591012, C4591021, and C4591036 will be assessed for the feasibility 
of studying the bivalent Omicron-modified vaccine.  Feasibility is dependent on the ability to 
uniquely identify the bivalent vaccine as the booster dose administered.  Additionally, the 
MAH will explore the feasibility of a new stand-alone study in the general US population and 
in sub-cohorts of interest, who have received the bivalent Omicron-modified vaccine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 50/65 
 
 
 
 
With the assessment of the BA.1 bivalent vaccine (II/0140), the CHMP AR stated that in view of the 
limited clinical data available for the bivalent vaccine compared to the initial monovalent vaccine, it is 
important that further safety data on the bivalent vaccine is collected in the post-marketing setting 
and the modified vaccine needs to be addressed in all PASSs. The MAH was requested to include the 
BA.1 bivalent vaccine as well as future modified vaccines (of which the BA.4/.5 bivalent vaccine is one) 
in all ongoing PASSs or otherwise justify. In addition, the MAH was requested to commit to submit the 
PASS protocol amendments as soon as possible after finalizing this variation application. 
The MAH responded during variation II/0140 that they will assess the feasibility of studying the 
bivalent vaccine and future modified vaccines in studies C4591012, C4591021, and C4591036, which 
is not accepted In addition, the MAH noted that feasibility is dependent on the ability to uniquely 
identify the bivalent vaccine and future modified vaccines as the booster dose administered. However, 
PRAC considers that due to measures implemented by the MAH (e.g. differences in naming, labelling), 
the bivalent vaccine will be uniquely identified. 
Moreover, concerning the ongoing safety studies with the initial monovalent vaccine (including booster 
doses) so far one or two interim reports were submitted for assessment by the EMA and subsequently 
limited (follow-up) safety data from the PASSs is available yet. Therefore, these safety studies should 
include the BA.1 bivalent vaccine as well as the BA.4/.5 bivalent vaccine in all (ongoing) PASSs or 
otherwise justify with methodological issues or other issues (within 3 months after approval of the 
bivalent vaccine). 
The MAH noted that where feasible, amended protocols for studies C4591012, C4591021, and 
C4591036 will be submitted within 3 months after authorization of the bivalent vaccine, which is 
accepted. 
The MAH’s agreement to include the BA.1 bivalent vaccine as well as the BA.4/.5 bivalent vaccine in all 
currently ongoing PASS (studies C4591009, C4591010, C4591012, C4591021, C4591022) and study 
C4591036 is considered acceptable. For studies with an interim/monitoring report to be submitted 
within the next 6 months, protocol amendments can be submitted with the next interim report. 
Otherwise, a stand-alone protocol update should be submitted within 3 months. 
For studies for which no protocol amendment is proposed by the MAH e.g. due to any methodological 
or other issues, a justification will be submitted within 1 month after finalisation of the current 
variation. 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
Category 2 
C4591001 
Ongoing 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Global 
The objective of the study 
is to evaluate the safety, 
tolerability, 
immunogenicity and 
efficacy of COVID-19 
mRNA vaccine. 
An imbalance between the 
vaccine and control 
groups in the frequency of 
Vaccine-associated 
enhanced disease 
(VAED) including 
vaccine-associated 
enhanced respiratory 
disease (VAERD) 
Use in frail patients 
with co-morbidities 
(C4591001 subset) 
CSR 
submission 
upon 
regulatory 
request: 
CSR 
submission 6 
months post 
Dose 2: 
Any time 
31-May-
2021 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 51/65 
 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
C4591007 
Ongoing 
Global  
31-Dec-
2023 
Final CSR 
submission 
with 
supplemental 
follow-up: 
Final CSR 
submission: 
03-Dec-
2024 
COVID-19 disease, in 
particular for severe 
COVID-19 disease, may 
indicate the occurrence of 
vaccine associated 
enhanced disease. 
Surveillance is planned for 
2 years following Dose 2. 
The purpose of the dose-
finding/selected-dose 
study is to rapidly 
describe the safety, 
tolerability, 
immunogenicity, and 
efficacy of the BNT162b2 
RNA-based COVID-19 
vaccine candidate against 
COVID-19 in healthy 
children. 
Long term safety data. 
Vaccine-associated 
enhanced disease 
(VAED) including 
vaccine-associated 
enhanced respiratory 
disease (VAERD) 
Long term safety data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 52/65 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
Category 3 
C4591009 
Ongoing 
US 
To assess the occurrence 
of safety events of 
interest, including 
myocarditis and 
pericarditis, among 
individuals in the general 
US population and in 
subcohorts of interest 
within selected data 
sources participating in 
the US Sentinel System. 
Myocarditis and 
pericarditis  
AESI-based safety 
events of interest 
Use in pregnancy 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Protocol 
submission: 
31-Aug-
2021 
Protocol 
amendment 
submission: 
Monitoring 
report 1 
submission: 
Monitoring 
report 2 
submission: 
Interim 
Analysis 
submission: 
Final CSR 
submission: 
Interim 
reports 
submission: 
Final CSR 
submission: 
11-Jul- 
2022 
31-Oct-
2022 
31-Oct-
2024 
31-Oct-
2023 
31-Mar-
2026 
30-Sep-
2022 
31-Dec-
2022 
31-Dec-
2023 
Interim 
reports 
submission: 
30-Jun-
2021 
31-Dec-
2021 
30-Jun-
2022 
31-Dec-
2022 
C4591011 
Planned 
US 
To assess whether 
individuals in the US DoD 
MHS experience increased 
risk of safety events of 
interest, following receipt 
of the COVID-19 mRNA 
vaccine. 
C4591012 
Ongoing 
US 
To assess whether 
individuals in the US 
Veteran’s Affairs Health 
System experience 
increased risk of safety 
events of interest, 
following receipt of the 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccine 
Myocarditis and 
pericarditis  
AESI-based safety 
events of interest 
including vaccine 
associated enhanced 
disease 
Use in pregnancy 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Use in frail patients 
with co-morbidities 
(e.g., chronic 
obstructive pulmonary 
disease [COPD], 
diabetes, chronic 
neurological disease, 
cardiovascular 
disorders) 
Use in patients with 
autoimmune or 
inflammatory disorders 
Long-term safety data. 
Myocarditis and 
pericarditis  
AESI-based safety 
events of interest 
including vaccine 
associated enhanced 
disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 53/65 
 
 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
including the bivalent 
Omicron modified vaccine, 
if feasible. 
To estimate the incidence 
rates of medically 
attended safety events of 
interest (based on the list 
of AESI) and other 
clinically significant events 
among persons 
vaccinated with the 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccine 
and to assess whether 
these rates elevated 
relative to estimated 
expected rates. 
To assess safety and 
immunogenicity in 
pregnant women  
In addition, exploratory 
objectives include:  
(a) To describe the 
immune response in 
infants born to 
breastfeeding maternal 
participants vaccinated 
with prophylactic COVID-
19 mRNA vaccine during 
pregnancy. 
(b) To describe the safety 
of maternal immunisation 
in infants born to 
breastfeeding maternal 
participants vaccinated 
with prophylactic 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccine 
during pregnancy. 
To estimate the 
effectiveness of COVID-19 
mRNA vaccine against 
hospitalisation and 
emergency department 
C4591010 
Ongoing 
EU 
C4591015 
Ongoing 
Global 
C4591014 
Ongoing 
US 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients. 
Use in frail patients 
with co-morbidities 
(e.g, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary 
disease [COPD], 
diabetes, chronic 
neurological disease, 
cardiovascular 
disorders) 
Use in patients with 
autoimmune or 
inflammatory disorders 
Long-term safety data. 
AESI-based safety 
events of interest 
Use in pregnancy 
Long-term safety data. 
Final CSR 
submission 
31-Dec-
2023 
Final CSR 
submission 
30-Sep-
2024 
Use in pregnancy and 
while breast feeding. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Apr-
2023 
Not Applicable. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Jun-
2023 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 54/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
31-Dec- 
2022 
30-Jun- 
2024 
Protocol 
amendment 
(for bivalent 
Omicron-
modified 
vaccine) 
submission:  
Final CSR (for 
bivalent 
Omicron-
modified 
vaccine) 
submission:  
Not Applicable. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Jun-
2023 
Not Applicable. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Jun-
2023 
admission for acute 
respiratory illness due to 
SARS-CoV-2 infection and 
to assess the 
effectiveness of bivalent 
Omicron-modified 
vaccines following their 
introduction.  
To estimate the 
effectiveness of 2 doses of 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccine 
against hospitalisation for 
acute respiratory illness 
due to SARS-CoV-2 
infection. 
To estimate the 
effectiveness of COVID-19 
mRNA vaccine against 
hospitalisation for acute 
respiratory illness due to 
SARS-CoV-2 infection and 
to assess the 
effectiveness of bivalent 
Omicron-modified 
vaccines following their 
introduction. 
WI235284 
Ongoing 
USa 
WI255886 
Ongoing 
Ex-EUa,b 
BNT162-01  
Cohort 13 
Ongoing 
EU 
To assess potentially 
protective immune 
responses in 
immunocompromised 
adults. 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients. 
C4591024 
(former Safety 
Global 
Safety, tolerability and 
immunogenicity based on 
Protocol 
amendment 
(for bivalent 
Omicron-
modified 
vaccine) 
submission:  
Final CSR (for 
bivalent 
Omicron-
modified 
vaccine) 
submission: 
IA 
submission: 
Final CSR 
submission: 
Protocol 
submission: 
31-Dec- 
2022 
30-Jun- 
2024 
30-Sep-
2021 
31-Oct-
2023Error! 
Bookmark 
not 
defined. 
30-Jun-
2021 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 55/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
and 
immunogenicity 
in high-risk 
adults) 
Ongoing 
EU 
C4591021 
(former 
ACCESS/VAC4EU) 
Ongoing 
EU 
C4591038 
(former 
C4591021 
substudy) 
Planned 
C4591022 
Ongoing 
US/CA 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
representative medical 
conditions (≥18 years: 
NSCLC, CLL, in 
hemodialysis for end-
stage renal disease). 
Assessment of potential 
increased risk of adverse 
events of special interest 
(AESI) after being 
vaccinated with COVID-19 
mRNA vaccine including 
bivalent Omicron modified 
vaccine, if feasible. 
Estimating the time trend, 
in relation to DHPC letter 
dissemination, of the 
proportion of individuals 
who received real-world 
clinical assessments for 
myocarditis/pericarditis 
following Comirnaty 
vaccination.   
To describe the natural 
history of post-vaccination 
myocarditis/pericarditis, 
including recovery status, 
risk factors, and/or 
identification of serious 
cardiovascular outcomes 
within 1 year of 
myocarditis/pericarditis 
diagnosis among 
individuals vaccinated 
with BNT162b2 as well as 
individuals not vaccinated 
with a COVID-19 vaccine. 
To assess whether 
pregnant women receiving 
BNT162b2 experience 
increased risk of 
pregnancy and infant 
safety outcomes, 
including major congenital 
malformations, 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Use in frail patients 
with co-morbidities 
(e.g, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD), 
diabetes, chronic 
neurological disease, 
cardiovascular 
disorders) 
Use in patients with 
autoimmune or 
inflammatory disorders. 
Myocarditis and 
Pericarditis 
AESI-based safety 
events of interest 
including vaccine 
associated enhanced 
disease  
Use in pregnancy 
Use in 
immunocompromised 
patients 
Use in frail patients 
with co-morbidities 
(e.g., chronic 
obstructive pulmonary 
disease [COPD], 
diabetes, chronic 
neurological disease, 
cardiovascular 
disorders) 
Use in patients with 
autoimmune or 
inflammatory disorders 
Long term safety data. 
Myocarditis and 
Pericarditis 
Long term safety data. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Jun-
2023  
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Sep-
2024 
Protocol 
submission: 
31-Jan-
2022 
Final CSR 
submission: 
30-Sep-
2024 
Use in pregnancy. 
Interim 
reports 
submission: 
31-Jan-
2022 
31-Jan-
2023 
31-Jan-
2024 
Page 56/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Country  Summary of Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestone 
Due dates 
Study (study 
short name, and 
title) 
Status 
(planned/on-
going)  
US/CA 
C4591036 
(former Pediatric 
Heart Network 
Study) 
Planned 
Not 
available 
C4591030 (Co-
administration 
study with 
seasonal influenza 
vaccine) 
Ongoing 
C4591031  
Substudy E 
Ongoing 
Global 
C4591044 
Ongoing 
US 
spontaneous abortion, 
stillbirth, preterm 
delivery, small for 
gestational age, and small 
for age postnatal growth 
to one year of age. 
To characterize the clinical 
course, risk factors, long-
term sequelae, and 
quality of life in children 
and young adults <21 
years with acute post-
vaccine myocarditis 
including myocarditis after 
the bivalent Omicron 
modified vaccine, if 
feasible 
Safety and 
immunogenicity of 
COVID-19 mRNA vaccine 
and quadrivalent seasonal 
influenza vaccine when 
administered separately 
or concomitantly. 
To describe the safety and 
tolerability profile of 
BNT162b2 (30 and 60 
µg), BNT162b2 OMI (30 
and 60 µg), and bivalent 
BNT162b2 and BNT162b2 
OMI (30 µg or 60 µg) 
given as a fourth dose to 
BNT162b2-experienced 
participants >55 years of 
age. 
To obtain data on bivalent 
BNT162b2 and BNT162b2 
OMI at 60 μg (30 μg 
each), bivalent BNT162b2 
and BNT162b2 OMI at 30 
μg (15 μg each), and 
BNT162b2 OMI at 60 μg 
in participants 18 to 55 
years of age. 
To describe the 
safety/tolerability and 
immune response to 
BNT162b5 Bivalent and 
BNT162b2 Bivalents given 
as a 2nd booster dose to 
COVID-19-vaccine-
experienced participants 
≥12 years of age. 
Final CSR 
submission: 
31-Dec-
2024 
Myocarditis/pericarditis 
Long term safety data. 
Protocol 
submission: 
30-Nov-
2021 
Final CSR 
submission: 
31-Dec-
2029  
Interaction with other 
vaccines. 
Protocol 
submission: 
17 Aug 
2021 
Final CSR 
submission: 
31-Dec-
2022 
Not applicablec 
Reactogenicity as 
partial proxy to the 
general safety profile  
Interim 
reports 
submission 
(> 55 y): 
Interim 
reports 
submission 
(18 - to 55 
y): 
31-Aug-
2022 
31-Oct-
2022 
6M Final CSR 
submission  
(>55 y): 
31-Jan-
2023 
6M Final CSR 
submission  
(18- to 55 
y): 
30-Mar 
2023 
Protocol 
Submission: 
14-Jun-
2022 
Protocol 
amendment 
1 
submission: 
Final CSR 
submission: 
28-Jul-
2022 
30-Sep-
2023 
Not applicablec  
Reactogenicity as 
partial proxy to the 
general safety profile  
a.  Case-control study nested in a prospective surveillance cohort, conducted as a research collaboration. 
b.  United Kingdom. 
c.  Vaccine effectiveness 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 57/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ongoing, interventional safety and effectiveness studies C4591031 and C4591044 were added as 
additional pharmacovigilance studies in the RMP, see above Summary table. 
C4591031 
The objectives of study C4591031 are: 
1. 
To describe the safety and tolerability profile of BNT162b2 (30 and 60 µg), BNT162b2 OMI (30 
and 60 µg), and bivalent BNT162b2 and BNT162b2 OMI (30 µg or 60 µg) given as a fourth 
dose to BNT162b2-experienced participants >55 years of age. 
2. 
To obtain data on bivalent BNT162b2 and BNT162b2 OMI at 60 μg (30 μg each), bivalent 
BNT162b2 and BNT162b2 OMI at 30 μg (15 μg each), and BNT162b2 OMI at 60 μg in 
participants 18 to 55 years of age. 
For further details on this study including sub-studies, please refer to the Clinical AR (II-140). In 
variation application II-140 a further follow up of immunogenicity and safety data with the bivalent 
vaccine Original/Omicron BA.1 in individuals 18 to 55 years old in the ongoing study C4591031 was 
requested as a commitment. The MAH agrees and noted that for the sake of clarity, study C4591031 
substudy E has already been proposed and agreed by PRAC for inclusion as an Additional 
Pharmacovigilance measure (Category 3 study), including relevant milestones, in RMP v7.0 submitted 
on 15 August 2022 in the context of Variation II/0143. 
C4591044 
For study C4591044, the MAH provided the following information in writing, apart from the RMP 
submission: 
Study C4591044 is evaluating BNT162b2 bivalent (Original + Omicron BA.4/BA.5) vaccine in the US in 
individuals 12 years of age and older through amendments 1 and 2. The projected dates provided 
below refer to availability of tables, listings and figures: relevant submissions will be planned 
accordingly as soon as possible following availability of TLFs and depending on the required submission 
format. 
Amendment 1 was initiated last week and will generate descriptive safety and immunogenicity data in 
500 individuals receiving the 30 µg bivalent (Original and Omicron BA.4/BA.5) vaccine (at least 100 in 
each age group: 12-17 years, 18-55 years, >55 years) which are anticipated to be available as follows: 
1. 
2. 
7 day reactogenicity data – end September 2022 
1 month safety (all participants) and sentinel immunogenicity (30 participants in each age 
group 18-55 and >55 years) using non-validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization assay – end October 
2022 
3. 
1 month immunogenicity (all participants) using validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization assay –
December 2022 
Amendment 2 will be initiated in the second half of September and will generate additional safety and 
immunogenicity data in a further 400 individuals receiving the 30 µg bivalent (Original and Omicron 
BA.4/BA.5) vaccine (200 in each age group: 18-55 years, >55 years) for hypothesis-driven 
immunogenicity analyses which are anticipated to be available as follows: 
1. 
1 month safety and immunogenicity (all participants) using validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization 
assay – January 2023 
All participants will be followed for serious adverse events and immunogenicity through 6 months after 
vaccination, which will be reported in the final clinical study report. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 58/65 
 
 
 
Regarding the pharmacovigilance plan, PRAC endorsed the inclusion of studies C4591031 and 
C4591044 since these studies will provide reactogenicity and immunogenicity data shortly. However, 
PRAC noted that due to their sample size, the newly included studies will not be able to characterise 
the important identified risks of myocarditis/pericarditis and important potential risks of VAED/VAERD.  
For studies C4591031 and C4591044, ‘Myocarditis and Pericarditis, Vaccine-associated enhanced 
disease (VAED) including Vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory disease (VAERD)’ was removed 
from the column Safety concerns addressed and replaced with “reactogenicity as partial proxy to the 
general safety profile”.  
Risk minimisation measures 
This section has been updated based on the changes made in PART III. 
Routine risk minimization measures  
The product information is sufficient to mitigate the current identified and potential risks of COVID-19 
mRNA vaccine.  The necessary information to ensure appropriate use of the product is included in the 
relevant sections of the SmPC. No additional measures for risk minimisation are considered necessary 
by the MAH at this time. 
Additional risk minimization measures  
None. 
As the summary of safety concerns remains unchanged and no new safety concerns have been 
identified, routine risk minimization measures remain sufficient to mitigate the important risks. 
The risk of medication errors associated with the introduction of bivalent vaccines has thoroughly been 
discussed in variation II/0140 (bivalent BA.1 vaccine) and it was concluded that routine risk 
minimization measures are sufficient. The same applies with the bivalent vaccine currently under 
evaluation. 
In conclusion, the RMP version 7.1 is considered acceptable. 
7.  Change to the product information   
As a consequence of this new indication, relevant affected sections of the SmPC, Labelling text and PL 
for all presentations have been updated. Please see annotated attachment.   
Labelling exemptions  
The following exemptions from labelling requirements have been granted on the basis of article 63.3 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. In addition, the derogations granted should be seen in the context of the 
flexibilities described in the Questions and Answers on labelling flexibilities for COVID-19 vaccines 
(EMA/689080/2020 rev.1, from 16 December 2020)5 document which aims at facilitating the 
preparedness work of COVID-19 vaccine developers and the associated logistics of early printing 
packaging activities. The ultimate goal is to facilitate the large scale and rapid deployment of COVID19 
vaccines for EU citizens within the existing legal framework.  
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 59/65 
 
 
 
 
Labelling exemptions 
Outer labelling (from start of supply to end December 2022). 
The following exemptions are temporarily agreed for the labelling. These exemptions are justified on 
the necessity to label batches ahead of time.  
Outer carton  
o  Strength: '15/15 micrograms per dose' (initially proposed)’, instead of 
'(15/15 micrograms)/dose' (agreed during evaluation with brackets). 
o  Statement of the active substance: “One dose contains 15 micrograms tozinameran and 
15 micrograms mRNA encoding Omicron BA.4 and BA.5”, instead of “One dose contains 
15 micrograms tozinameran and 15 micrograms famtozinameran” (agreed during the 
assessment)”. 
o  Common name/INN: common name ‘COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine (nucleoside modified)’ (initially 
proposed), instead of common name ‘COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine (nucleoside modified)’ and INN 
‘tozinameran/ famtozinameran’ (during evaluation). 
o 
“(Each vial contains 6 doses of 0.3 mL.)” with text brackets (initially proposed) instead of “ 
“Each vial contains 6 doses of 0.3 mL” without brackets (agreed during evaluation). 
o  MA number with ‘XXX’ placeholder, instead of MA number will be used after approval. 
Box label 
o  Strength: '15/15 micrograms per dose' (initially proposed)’, instead of 
'(15/15 micrograms)/dose' (agreed during evaluation with brackets). 
o  Statement of the active substance: “One dose contains 15 micrograms tozinameran and 
15 micrograms mRNA encoding Omicron BA.4 and BA.5”, instead of “One dose contains 
15 micrograms tozinameran and 15 micrograms famtozinameran” (agreed during the 
assessment)”. 
o  Common name/INN: common name ‘COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine (nucleoside modified)’ (initially 
proposed), instead of common name ‘COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine (nucleoside modified)’ and INN 
‘tozinameran/ famtozinameran'’ (during evaluation). 
o 
“(Each vial contains 6 doses of 0.3 mL.)” with text brackets (initially proposed) instead of “ 
“Each vial contains 6 doses of 0.3 mL” without brackets (agreed during evaluation). 
o  MA number with ‘XXX’ placeholder, instead of MA number will be used after approval 
Quick Response (QR) code 
o  The updates of the QR code/URL to include further references to Comirnaty Original/Omicron 
BA.1 and Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5, as well as the necessary layout changes on the 
website shall be submitted and assessed via an Article 61.3 notification (post-authorisation). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 60/65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit-Risk 
Balance 
Disease or condition 
After emerging as a human pathogen causing Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2 has continuously evolved and 
appeared in several variants causing new waves of infection. The strain causing the latest waves of 
disease has been the Omicron, with several subvariants beginning with BA.1. Currently BA.5 is 
dominating in the EU. 
The sought indication is for booster use: 
“Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5 (15/15 micrograms)/dose dispersion for injection is indicated for 
active immunisation to prevent COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2, in individuals 12 years of age and 
older who have previously received at least a primary vaccination course against COVID-19 (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.1).” 
Available therapies and unmet medical need 
While the efficacy of available vaccines emulating the Wuhan strain against severe disease due to 
Omicron appears largely retained, efficacy against symptomatic disease is obviously reduced. 
Moreover, the duration of protection with the original vaccine may be reduced given that the emerging 
variant is less sensitive than the original target. 
Bivalent variant mRNA vaccines containing the original strain as well as BA.1. were approved for 
boosting in the EU beginning of September (similar indication as the one presently sought). However, 
Sars-Cov-2 evolution has been rapid, and as stated above the dominating variant at the present time 
is no longer BA.1 but BA.5.  
Established principles of immunology as well as some preclinical immunogenicity data, indicate that a 
vaccine targeting BA.5 would optimise immunogenicity against BA.5, which might be translated into 
greater vaccine efficacy. Given the dynamic nature of the pandemic, and that it cannot be predicted 
what strain will cause the next wave, there is a benefit of having different vaccines available that can 
be used as booster. 
It has been proposed that an adapted bivalent vaccine with the BA.4-5 spike protein sequence 
substituting for half of the content of the Original vaccine, might be approved based on widely 
accepted immunological principles, as well as the extrapolation of reactogenicity from the experience 
of different other variant vaccines.  
Main clinical studies 
There are no clinical data to support the approval of Original/BA4-5. 
Favourable effects 
It has been demonstrated that boosting with a bivalent Original/BA.1 vaccine confers increased 
immunogenicity against BA.1 compared to Original alone, as well as non-inferior immunogenicity to 
the original strain, while having the same total mRNA content. The CHMP is of the opinion that the 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 61/65 
 
 
 
same would be the case for the Original/BA.4-5 vaccine versus BA.5 and the original virus. Data from 
immunogenicity studies in mice give some support for this notion. 
Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
The size of any increment of immunogenicity against BA.5 compared to Comirnaty Original, is not 
known. Moreover, since there is no immune correlate of protection, the extent of increased efficacy 
given a certain increment in immunogenicity, is also not known. The same pertains to the breadth of 
the immune response as well as the duration of protection. 
The former will be illustrated by immunogenicity data from study C4591044. Sentinel immunogenicity 
(30 participants in each age group 18-55 and >55 years) using non-validated BA.4/BA.5 neutralization 
assay are anticipated by mid November 2022. Immunogenicity for all participants using validated 
BA.4/BA.5 neutralization assay are foreseen for submission in December 2022.  
Observational studies (“real life data”) are anticipated to inform on the effectiveness of 
Original/BA.4/BA.5. 
Unfavourable effects 
There is a very large safety database for Comirnaty Original, showing an acceptable safety profile. 
Apart from Comirnaty Original, there are data on reactogenicity for Beta, Delta and Omicron BA.1 
monovalent vaccine constructs. Moreover, there are reactogenicity data for bivalent Original/BA.1 and 
Alpha/Delta constructs. All of these demonstrate acceptable reactogenicity profiles. 
Two randomised studies have indicated somewhat greater systemic reactogenicity when BA.1 is a 
component of the vaccine, compared to Original alone. However, this difference is not deemed 
clinically meaningful. 
Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
The frequency of severe systemic reactogenicity events is numerically higher when boosting with delta 
or alpha/delta variant vaccines, though an important caveat relates to cross-study comparisons of 
reported safety.  
It is not fully clarified to what extent and how the spike protein sequence matters for the degree of 
reactogenicity.  
The assumption of acceptable reactogenicity and safety data are based on extrapolation from 
Comirnaty Original, as well as other monovalent and bivalent variant vaccines. While there may be 
minor differences in reactogenicity, there are presently no available data with the Original/BA.4-5 
vaccine. Reactogenicity data from approximately 500 subjects 18 years and older, are anticipated to 
be delivered by the company within a few weeks of approval. 
At the time when the abovementioned reactogenicity dataset has been submitted, the size of the 
safety database for BA.4-5 containing variant vaccines will still not be large enough to characterise the 
frequency of rare adverse events. However, it is notable that the only difference between 
Original/BA.4-5 and Original is in the spike protein sequence of BA.4-5.  
There are no data on the bivalent Original/BA.4-5 variant vaccine in pregnancy. However, the total 
mRNA dose is the same as for Original, and no clinically meaningful difference in reactogenicity is 
expected based on the sum experience of Sars-Cov-2 variant vaccines. Moreover, the only difference 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 62/65 
 
 
 
between products lies in the spike protein sequence. Therefore, based on the experience of Comirnaty 
Original, use in pregnancy is deemed acceptable. 
Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
While protection against severe disease remains high, the efficacy against any clinical disease of 
Comirnaty Original is obviously lower against Omicron strains, compared to what was seen against 
Wuhan and the Alpha-Delta variants.  
It has been demonstrated that boosting with a bivalent BA.1/Wuhan vaccine with the same total 
amount of mRNA, yields higher immunogenicity versus BA.1, as well as non-inferior immune responses 
against Wuhan. 
Based on established principles of immunology, the CHMP considers that a vaccine more closely 
matching what is presently circulating would optimise immunogenicity against that variant. It is also 
considered by the Committee that responses against the original Wuhan virus would not be inferior for 
a bivalent vaccine if the omicron component is BA.5 rather than BA.1. 
The key uncertainty with respect to favourable effects is that the magnitude of any incremental clinical 
efficacy over and above available variants of Comirnaty is not known. 
Regarding safety, there is a very large safety database for Comirnaty Original, showing an acceptable 
safety profile. The only difference between Original and Original/BA4-5 lies in the spike protein 
sequence, the total amount of mRNA being similar. 
Apart from Comirnaty Original, there are data on reactogenicity when boosting with Beta, Delta and 
Omicron BA.1 monovalent vaccine constructs. Moreover, there are reactogenicity data for bivalent 
Original/BA.1 and Alpha/Delta constructs. All of these demonstrate acceptable reactogenicity profiles. 
An thorough and swift approval is deemed helpful to cater to the public health needs related to 
ongoing vaccination campaigns, given the present epidemiological situation. Although the current BA.5 
wave is declining in Europe, it cannot be predicted what variant will constitute the next wave. It is 
therefore considered by the CHMP beneficial to have different variant vaccines available that can be 
used in the vaccination campaigns.  
While all variant COVID-19 vaccines up till now have had clinical data as basis of approval, the current 
approach is based on the paradigm for updating Influenza vaccines; here annual updates of the 
antigen sequence to match the currently circulating virus, are accepted without the need to provide 
clinical data; rather, efficacy and safety is inferred based on the cumulative experience of vaccine 
variants.  
This is considered acceptable by the CHMP based on the established principles of immunology and the 
large amount of safety data available for Comirnaty vaccine variants.  
In conclusion, the CHMP is of the opinion that an unacceptable reactogenicity profile when boosting 
with Original/BA.4-5 is considered sufficiently unlikely to allow for an early approval of the 
Original/BA.4-5, based on the Influenza paradigm. Interpretable reactogenicity data are anticipated 
within a month of approval, whereas immunogenicity data will be submitted somewhat later. The use 
of Original/BA.4-5 will be monitored by real life pharmacovigilance, as well as effectiveness studies. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 63/65 
 
 
 
Balance of benefits and risks 
Given the evolution of Sars-Cov-2, the CHMP is of the view that the benefits of an early approval of 
Original/BA.4-5 outweighs the uncertainties related to extrapolations on immunogenicity and 
reactogenicity. 
Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5 is positive.  
The following measures are considered necessary to address issues related to efficacy and safety: 
• 
• 
The delivery of immunogenicity and safety data from study C4591044 in accordance with the 
schedule that has been proposed by the applicant, i.e. for an expected submission date of 
December 2022.  
The MAH has committed submit the following safety data before the end of September 2022: 
The provision of reactogenicity data from approximately 500 subjects 18 years of age or older, 
receiving Original/Omicron BA.4-5 in the C4591044 study. 
9.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
Annex(es) 
B.I.a.6.a 
B.I.a.6.a - Changes to the active substance of a vaccine 
II 
against human coronavirus - Replacement or addition of 
a serotype, strain, antigen or coding sequence or 
combination of serotypes, strains, antigens or coding 
sequences for a human coronavirus vaccine 
affected 
I, IIIA, IIIB 
and A 
Addition of a new strain (Omicron BA.4-5) resulting in a new Comirnaty Original/Omicron BA.4-5 
(15/15 micrograms)/dose dispersion for injection presentation. The SmPC, the Package Leaflet and 
Labelling are updated accordingly. A revised RMP version 7.1 has been approved. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annex(es) I, IIIA, IIIB and A and to 
the Risk Management Plan are recommended. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the Annex II, Section C of the CHMP Opinion. Please add this product to the current EURD list 
entry: 10898 and re-name the entry: tozinameran (COMIRNATY), tozinameran/riltozinameran 
(COMIRNATY Original/Omicron BA.1), tozinameran/famtozinameran (COMIRNATY Original/Omicron 
BA.4-5). 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 64/65 
 
 
 
 
Table on conditions and recommendations 
Area 
Number  Description 
Classification  Due date 
Quality 
1 
The MAH should provide information on the 
REC 
Q4/2022 
theoretical protein sizes of the mature protein 
and variants thereof. In addition, the MAH 
should update the dossier with Figure 1. BNT162 
Omicron (BA.4/BA.5) Expressed Protein Size by 
In Vitro Translation, as provided in response to 
the request for supplementary information. 
Quality 
2 
The MAH should provide long term and 
REC 
Nov 2022 
accelerated stability data for the 1-month time 
point for active substance batch GH5745. 
Quality 
3 
The MAH should reassess and optimise the 
REC 
Q2/2023 
proposed specification for the RNA ratio, when a 
sufficient number of BNT162b2 Bivalent 
(Wildtype and Omicron) Finished Product 
batches have been manufactured. 
10.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
For more information, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report  
EMA/895061/2022  
Page 65/65 
 
 
 
 
 
