European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/549617/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
PRAMIPEXOLE TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): pramipexole 
On  23  October  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Pramipexole  Teva  0.088  mg,  0.18  mg,  0.35  mg,  0.7  mg  tablets  intended  for  the  treatment  of 
Parkinson's disease. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The active substance of Pramipexole Teva is pramipexole, which is a dopamine agonist (N04BC) that 
binds with high selectivity and specificity to the D2 subfamily of dopamine receptors of which it has a 
preferential affinity to D3 receptors, and has full intrinsic activity. Furthermore, pramipexole alleviates 
Parkinsonian motor Symptoms by stimulation of dopamine receptors in the striatum. Animal studies 
have shown that pramipexole inhibits the dopamine synthesis, release, and turnover. 
Pramipexole Teva is a generic of Sifrol which has been authorised in the EU since 14 October 1997. 
Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Pramipexole Teva, and its bioequivalence with 
Sifrol. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The  approved  indication  is:  treatment  of  the  signs  and  symptoms  of  idiopathic  Parkinson's  disease, 
alone (without levodopa) or in combination with levodopa, i.e. over the course of the disease, through 
to late stages when the effect of levodopa wears off  or becomes inconsistent and fluctuations of the 
therapeutic effect occur (end of dose or “on off” fluctuations).  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Pramipexole Teva, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as 
part of the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Pramipexole Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
