European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/200756/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
IRESSA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): gefinitib  
On 23rd April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), adopted a positive 
opinion,∗∗∗ recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Iressa, 250mg, 
film coated tablets intended for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The Applicant 
for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB.  
The active substance of Iressa is gefinitib, an anti-neoplastic medicinal product (ATC Code L01XX31) 
which targets the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase and acts as an inhibitor of 
cell growth by competing with ATP and blocking activation through the receptor.   
The benefits with Iressa are its significant improvement in objective response rates, progression free 
survival  and  quality  of  life  in  patients  with  tumours  that  have  tested  positive  for  EGFR  with  an 
activating mutation. The safety of gefitinib was acceptable and, overall, gefitinib was considered well 
tolerated.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  rash  and  diarrhoea  which  were  reported  at  high 
frequencies. For patients treated with gefitinib, there is an increased risk for interstitial lung disorders 
(ILD), which is fatal in approximately 1 in every 3 patients affected with ILD.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Iressa, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Iressa is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with activating mutations of EGFR-TK (see section 
5.1). 
Treatment  with  Iressa  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  use  of 
anticancer therapies. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Iressa and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion.  
∗∗ ∗   Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
