European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 30 May 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/246405/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
BRIDION 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sugammadex (as sodium salt) 
On 30 May 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Bridion  100 
mg/ml,  solution  for  injection  intended  for  the  reversal  of  neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by 
rocuronium or vecuronium. The applicant for this medicinal product is N.V. Organon. 
The active substance of Bridion is sugammadex, a modified gamma cyclodextrin, which is a Selective 
Relaxant Binding Agent (ATC code: V03AB35). It forms a complex with the neuromuscular blocking 
agents  rocuronium  or  vecuronium  in  plasma  and  thereby  reduces  the  amount  of  neuromuscular 
blocking agent available to bind to nicotinic receptors in the neuromuscular junction. This results in 
the reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium or vecuronium. 
The  benefit  with  Bridion  is  that  it  has  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  the  routine  reversal  of 
neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by  the  non-depolarising  neuromuscular  blockers  rocuronium  and 
vecuronium  and  also  in  the  immediate  reversal  of  neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by  rocuronium. 
The most common side effect is dysgeusia (metal or bitter taste). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Bridion, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Reversal  of  neuromuscular  blockade  induced  by  rocuronium  or 
vecuronium.” It is proposed that Bridion should only be administered by, or under the supervision of 
an anaesthetist. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Bridion and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
