European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 15 November 2007 
EMEA/CHMP/536624/2007 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
XELEVIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin 
On  15  November  2007  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Xelevia. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Merck 
Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted new indications as follows:  
(cid:131) 
(cid:131) 
“to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise plus 
maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control and 
when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  a  sulphonylurea  and  metformin  when  diet 
and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication for Xelevia will be as follows***: 
“For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Xelevia  is indicated: 
• 
• 
• 
to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise  plus 
metformin alone do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea when diet and exercise 
plus maximal tolerated dose of a sulphonylurea alone do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control and when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with a sulphonylurea and metformin when 
diet and exercise plus dual therapy with these agents do not provide adequate glycaemic 
control. 
For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in whom use of a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is 
appropriate, Xelevia  is indicated: 
• 
in combination with the PPARγ agonist when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone 
do not provide adequate glycaemic control.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2007 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
