European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/370895/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
JAVLOR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): vinflunine ditartrate   
On 25 June 2009the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Javlor, 
25 mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion, intended for treatment of transitional cell carcinoma of 
the urothelium.  The applicant for this medicinal product is Pierre Fabre Médicament. 
The  active  substance  of  Javlor  is  vinflunine  ditartrate,  a  vinca  alkaloid  therapeutic  class  medicinal 
product (ATC Code L01CA05) which mainly acts as a mitotic spindle poison to impair chromosomal 
segregation during mitosis. Vinflunine ditartrate blocks cells at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle and 
induces  cell  death  via  apoptosis.  It  interacts  with  tubulin  at  the  vinca-binding  domain  and  inhibits 
tubulin assembly by perturbing microtubule dynamics and mitotic spindles. 
The  benefits  with  Javlor  are  those  of  clinical  efficacy  compared  to  best  standard  of  care  alone,  as 
observed in secondary analyses of a randomised clinical trial in patients with advanced or metastatic 
transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium, as second-line therapy after failure of a prior platinum-
containing  regimen.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  abdominal  pain,  nausea,  vomiting; 
constipation,  diarrhoea;  inflammation  of  the  mucosa  of    the  mouth;  fatigue,  muscle  pain;  weight 
decrease, loss of appetite; loss of hair; pain at the site of injection; decrease in the number of white 
blood cells (neutropenia) or red blood cells (anaemia) or platelets, and fever. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Javlor as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Javlor is indicated in monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with 
advanced  or  metastatic  transitional  cell  carcinoma  of  the  urothelial  tract  after  failure  of  a  prior 
platinum-containing regimen. Efficacy and safety of vinflunine have not been studied in patients with 
Performance  Status  ≥ 2”.  It  is  proposed  that  vinflunine  treatment  should  be  initiated  under  the 
responsibility of a physician qualified in the use of anticancer chemotherapy.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Javlor and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
