European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/471503/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
COPALIA HCT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): amlodipine besylate / valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Copalia HCT, 
amlodipine/valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide, 5 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg, 10 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg, 5 mg/160 
mg/25  mg,  10  mg/160  mg/25  mg  and  10  mg/320  mg/25  mg,  film-coated  tablet,  intended  for  the 
treatment  of  essential  hypertension  in  adults.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Novartis 
Europharm Limited. 
The active substances of Copalia HCT (ATC code: C09DX01) are amlodipine besylate, valsartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. Copalia HCT combines three antihypertensive compounds with complementary 
mechanisms to control blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension: amlodipine belongs to 
the calcium antagonist class, valsartan to the angiotensin II antagonist class and hydrochlorothiazide 
belongs to the thiazide diuretics. Copalia HCT is effective in lowering blood pressure in the treatment 
of essential hypertension as substitution therapy in adult patients whose blood pressure is adequately 
controlled on the combination of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, taken either as three 
single-component formulations or as a dual-component and a single-component formulation. Patients 
should be controlled on stable doses of the monocomponents taken at the same time and the dose of 
Copalia  HCT  should  be  based  on  the  doses  of  the  individual  components  of  the  combination  at  the 
time of switching. 
The  benefits  with  Copalia  HCT  are  its  blood  pressure  lowering  effect  achieved  by  combination  of 
three  antihypertensive  compounds  in  a  single  formulation  to  control  blood  pressure  in  patients  with 
essential  hypertension.  The  most  common  side  effects  of  Copalia  HCT  are  dizziness,  peripheral 
oedema, and headache. When amlodipine is taken as monotherapy, dizziness, headache or oedema can 
occur.  Furthermore,  adverse  events  of  valsartan  may  include  fatigue  and  abdominal  discomfort,  and 
adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide may include gastrointestinal irritations, weakness or headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Copalia HCT as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part 
of the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Treatment  of  essential  hypertension  as  substitution  therapy  in  adult 
patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  adequately  controlled  on  the  combination  of  amlodipine,  valsartan 
and  hydrochlorothiazide  (HCT),  taken  either  as  three  single-component  formulations  or  as  a  dual-
component and a single-component formulation.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Copalia  HCT  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
