European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/65031/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
INSTANYL 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): fentanyl  
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Instanyl,  0.5 
mg/ml,  1.0  mg/ml,  2.0  mg/ml,  nasal  spray,  solution,  intended  for  the  management  of  breakthrough 
pain  in  adults  already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain.  Breakthrough 
pain is a transitory exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent 
pain. The applicant for this medicinal product is Nycomed Danmark ApS. 
The  active  substance  of  Instanyl  is  fentanyl  citrate,  a  phenylpiperidine  derivative  medicinal  product 
(N02AB03) acting on the opioid receptor. 
The benefits with Instanyl are its nasal route of administration, which avoids first-pass metabolism of 
the active substance and provides quick onset of analgesic action.  The most common side effects are, 
as for other fentanyl preparations, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nausea and vomiting. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Instanyl, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Instanyl is indicated for the management of breakthrough pain in adults 
already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain.  Breakthrough  pain  is  a 
transitory exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent pain.”  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Instanyl and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
