European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/434814/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
KUVAN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sapropterin dihydrochloride 
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Kuvan, 
100  mg,  soluble  tablets  intended  for  the  treatment  of  hyperphenylalaninemia  (HPA).  Kuvan  was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product on 8 June 2004. The applicant for this medicinal product is 
Merck KGaA. 
The  active  substance  of  Kuvan  is  sapropterin  dihydrochloride,  a  “various  alimentary  tract  and 
metabolism”  medicinal  product  (ATC  code:  A16AX07).  It  is  a  synthetic  version  of  the  naturally 
occurring  tetrahydrobiopterin  (6R-BH4),  which  is  a  cofactor  of  hydroxylases  for  phenylalanine, 
tyrosine  and  tryptophan.  It  is  proposed  as  an  oral  treatment  for  hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in 
patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) or BH4 deficiency. 
The  benefits  with  Kuvan  are  its  ability  demonstrated  in  two  placebo-controlled  studies,  to  reduce 
phenylalanine levels in patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been shown to be responsive to 
BH4 treatment. The most common side effects are headache and rhinorrhoea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Kuvan, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:“Kuvan is indicated for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia (HPA) in 
adult and paediatric patients of 4 years of age and over with phenylketonuria (PKU) who have been 
shown  to  be  responsive  to  such  treatment.  Kuvan  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of 
hyperphenylalaninaemia  (HPA)  in  adult  and  paediatric  patients  with  tetrahydrobiopterin  (BH4) 
deficiency, who have been shown to be responsive to such treatment”. Treatment with Kuvan must be 
initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the treatment of PKU and BH4 deficiency.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Kuvan and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
