European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/571877/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
NPLATE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): romiplostim 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Nplate, 250 µg, 500 µg, powder for solution for injection intended for the treatment of adult chronic 
immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). 
Nplate  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  27  May  2005.  The  applicant  for  this 
medicinal product is Amgen Europe B.V. 
The active substance of Nplate is romiplostim, an antihaemorragic medicinal product (ATC code not 
yet  assigned)  that  increases  platelet  production.  Nplate  is  an  Fc-peptide  fusion  protein  that  activates 
intracellular transcriptional pathways via the thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor. 
The benefits with Nplate have been shown in two phase III, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies 
in  adults  with  ITP.  In  both  studies,  efficacy  has  been  shown  in  terms  of  a  durable  platelet  response 
compared  to  patients  receiving  placebo.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  headache,  fatigue, 
arthralgia,  myalgia,  injection  site  bruising,  injection  site  pain,  oedema  peripheral,  dizziness,  muscle 
spasms,  nausea,  contusion,  diarrhoea,  bone  marrow  disorder,  influenza  like  illness,  insomnia  and 
pruritus. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Nplate, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Nplate is indicated for adult chronic immune (idiopathic) 
thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) splenectomised patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. 
corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). Nplate may be considered as second line treatment for adult non-
splenectomised patients where surgery is contra-indicated.” 
It  is  proposed  that  Nplate  treatment  should  remain  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  who  is 
experienced in the treatment of haematological diseases.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Nplate and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
