European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/197104/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
FIRAZYR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): icatibant acetate 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Firazyr 30 mg 
solution  for  injection  pre-filled  syringe  intended  for  treatment  of  hereditary  angioedema  (HAE)  in 
adults (with C1-esterase-inhibitor deficiency). Firazyr was designated as an orphan medicinal product 
on 17 February 2003. The applicant for this medicinal product is Jerini AG. 
The  active  substance  of  Firazyr  is  icatibant  acetate,  a  selective  competitive  antagonist  at  the 
bradykinin  type  2  (B2)  receptor  (ATC  Code  not  assigned  yet).  It  is  a  synthetic  decapeptide  with  a 
structure  similar  to  bradykinin,  but  with  5  nonproteinogenic  amino  acids.  In  HAE  increased 
bradykinin concentrations are the key mediator in the development of the clinical symptoms. 
The benefits with Firazyr are its effect (in terms of time to onset of symptoms relief) in the treatment 
of  acute  HAE  attacks  with  or  without  laryngeal  symptoms.  The  most  common  side  effects  are 
reactions  at  the  site  of  administration  such  as  erythema,  swelling,  warm  sensation,  burning,  itching 
and/or cutaneous pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Firazyr, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “symptomatic treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE) 
in adults (with C1-esterase-inhibitor deficiency)”. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Firazyr and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
