European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/269077/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
AFINITOR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): everolimus 
On 29 May 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Afinitor, 10 mg, 
5 mg, tablets intended for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, whose disease 
has  progressed  on  or  after  treatment  with  VEGF-targeted  therapy.  Afinitor  was  designated  as  an 
orphan  medicinal  product  on  05  June  2007.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Novartis 
Europharm Ltd. 
The active substance of Afinitor is everolimus, an anti-neoplastic medicinal product (L01XE10) that 
inhibits  the  mTOR  pathway,  a  protein  kinase  involved  in  regulating  cell  growth,  proliferation,  
survival  and  the  activation  of  vascular  endothelial  growth  factor  receptor,  which  is  involved  in 
angiogenesis. 
The benefit with Afinitor is the prolongation of progression free survival by approximately 3 months 
for Afinitor-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. The most common side effects are 
stomatitis  /mucositis,  infections,  cytopenias,  rash  and  similar  events,  metabolic  events,  renal  events, 
pulmonary events, bleeding and thromboembolic events, hepatic events. A pharmacovigilance plan for 
Afinitor, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Afinitor is intended for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell 
carcinoma,  whose  disease  has  progressed  on  or  after  treatment  with  VEGF-targeted  therapy. 
Treatment with Afinitor should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of 
anticancer therapies. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Afinitor and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 <sector fax> 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
