European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/449050/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RESOLOR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): prucalopride  
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Resolor,1mg 
and 2mg, film coated tablets intended for symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation in women in 
whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief The applicant for this medicinal product is Movetis NV. 
The  active  substance  of  Resolor  is  prucalopride,  a  serotonin  (5-HT4)  receptor  agonist  (ATC-Code: 
A03AE04) which is likely to explain its enterokinetic effects. 
The benefits with Resolor are illustrated by its effect on the main propulsive force to defecation.  As 
shown  in  the  clinical  studies,  the  proportion  (%)  of  subjects  that  reached  normalisation  of  bowel 
movements defined as an average of three or more spontaneous, complete bowel movements (SCBM) 
per  week  over  the  12-week  treatment  period,  significantly  increased.    Also,  these  patients  noted  an 
increased  degree  of  satisfaction  with  treatment  and  with  bowel  habits,  physical  and  psychosocial 
comfort  and  had  fewer  worries  and  concerns.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  headache  and 
gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain, nausea or diarrhoea), which tend to occur predominantly 
at  the  start  of  therapy  and  usually  disappear  within  a  few  days  with  continued  treatment.  
Uncommonly, new onset of palpitations was recorded during therapy. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Resolor, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Resolor is indicated for symptomatic treatment of chronic constipation 
in women in whom laxatives fail to provide adequate relief.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Resolor and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 <sector fax> 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
