European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/447829/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ILARIS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): canakinumab 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances for the 
medicinal  product  Ilaris,  150  mg/ml,  powder  for  solution  for  injection  intended  for  the  treatment  of 
Cryopyrin-Associated  Periodic  Syndromes  (CAPS)  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children  aged  4 years 
and older with body weight above 15 kg. 
Ilaris  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  20  March  2007.  The  applicant  for  this 
medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The active substance of Ilaris is canakinumab a human monoclonal anti-human interleukin-1β (IL-1β) 
antibody  (L04AC04)  that  was  designed  to  bind  selectively  to  and  neutralize  the  activity  of  IL-1β,  a 
pro-inflammatory  cytokine,  which  is  produced  mainly  by  mononuclear  phagocytes  in  response  to 
injury and infection. 
The  benefits  with  Ilaris  are  the  reduction  of  inflammatory  activity  caused  by  neutralisation  of 
excessively secreted IL-1 in CAPS, The most common side effects are infections, particularly of the 
upper respiratory tract, vertigo and injection site reactions. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ilaris, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Cryopyrin-Associated  Periodic  Syndromes  (CAPS)  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children  aged  4 years 
and older with body weight above 15 kg, including: 
−  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
−  Neonatal-Onset  Multisystem  Inflammatory  Disease  (NOMID)  /  Chronic  Infantile  Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
−  Severe  forms  of  Familial  Cold  Autoinflammatory  Syndrome  (FCAS)  /  Familial  Cold  Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash.  
Treatment  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a  specialist  physician  experienced  in  the  diagnosis 
and treatment of CAPS. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ilaris and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances***. 
*** 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances refers to the fact that in exceptional 
circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. 
Page 2/2 
                                                     
 
