European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 February 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/661136/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CONBRIZA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): bazedoxifene 
On  19  February  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Conbriza, 20mg, film-coated tablets, intended for treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in women 
at increased risk of fracture. The applicant for this medicinal product is Wyeth Europa Limited. 
The  active  substance  of  Conbrizais  bazedoxifene,  a  Selective  Oestrogen  Receptor  Modulator  (ATC 
code  G03XC02),  whose  biological  actions  are  largely  mediated  through  binding  to  oestrogen 
receptors.  It  has  oestrogen-like  agonistic  effects  on  some  tissues  such  as  bone,  whereas  it  has 
oestrogen-antagonistic or neutral effects on some other tissues, such as the breast.  
The  benefits  with  Conbrizaare  its  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures  compared  to 
placebo  in  postmenopausal  women.  The  rate  of  new  vertebral  fractures  in  women  treated  with 
bazedoxifene 20mg per day over 3 years was reduced by 42%. Bazedoxifene also increased the bone 
mineral density at the lumbar spine and other sites. The most common side effects are hot flushes and 
muscle  spasms  (including  leg  cramps).  The  most  serious  adverse  reactions  related  to  CONBRIZA 
were  venous  thromboembolic  events,  which  were  1.9-fold  more  common  than  with  placebo  with 
treatment over 3 years. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Conbriza, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Conbrizais indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in 
women at increased risk of fracture. A significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral fractures has 
been demonstrated; efficacy on hip fractures has not been established. 
When  determining  the  choice  of  Conbrizaor  other  therapies,  including  oestrogens,  for  an  individual 
postmenopausal  woman,  consideration  should  be  given  to  menopausal  symptoms,  effects  on  uterine 
and breast tissues, and cardiovascular risks and benefits (see section 5.1).” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Conbrizaand  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
