European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/441150/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
REPAGLINIDE KRKA 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): repaglinide 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion∗∗,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Repaglinide  Krka  0.5  mg,  1  mg,  2  mg  tablets  intended  for  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Krka, d.d., Novo mesto. 
The  active  substance  of  Repaglinide  Krka  is  Repaglinide,  a  short-acting  oral  secretagogue  that  is  a 
carbamoylmethyl  benzoid  acid  derivative  (ATC  code:  A10BX02).  Repaglinide  lowers  the  blood 
glucose  levels  acutely  by  stimulating  the  release  of  insulin  from  the  pancreas,  an  effect  dependent 
upon functioning β-cells in the pancreatic islets.  
Repaglinide Krka is a generic of NovoNorm,  which has been authorised in the EU since  17 August 
1998. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Repaglinide Krka, and its bioequivalence 
with NovoNorm. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Repaglinide  is  indicated  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  (Non 
Insulin-Dependent  Diabetes  Mellitus  (NIDDM))  whose  hyperglycaemia  can  no  longer  be  controlled 
satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction and exercise. Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct to diet 
and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit risk balance 
for Repaglinide Krka, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
* 
∗∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 7182 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
