European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/369490/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ONGLYZA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): saxagliptin 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Onglyza 5 mg 
film-coated tablet intended for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Bristol-Myers Squibb/AstraZeneca EEIG. 
The active substance of Onglyza is saxagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor medicinal 
product (A10BH03). DPP-4 inhibition reduces the cleavage and inactivation of the active (intact) form 
of  the  incretin  hormone  glucagon-like  peptide  1  (GLP-1),  producing  an  elevation  of  incretin 
concentrations  that  leads  to  enhancement  of  glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in 
glucagon release. 
The benefits with Onglyza are its demonstrated clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control in type 
2  diabetic  patients  when  used  in  combination  with  sulphonylurea,  with  metformin,  or  with  a 
thiazolidinedione.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  upper  respiratory  infection,  urinary  tract 
infection,  gastroenteritis,  sinusitis,  nasopharyngitis  (in  combination  with  metformin),  headache  and 
vomiting.  Incidence  of  hypoglycaemia  was  low,  but  increases  when  taking  Onglyza  with  a 
sulfonylurea.  Similarly,  the  incidence  of  oedema  was  low  but  may  increase  when  added  to  a 
thiazolidinedione.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Onglyza, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Add-on combination therapy  
Onglyza is indicated in adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycaemic control: 
• 
• 
• 
* 
** 
in combination with metformin, when metformin alone, with diet and exercise, does not provide 
adequate glycaemic control;  
in combination with a sulphonylurea, when the sulphonylurea alone, with diet and exercise, does 
not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control  in  patients  for  whom  use  of  metformin  is  considered 
inappropriate.  
in combination with a thiazolidinedione, when the thiazolidinedione alone with diet and exercise, 
does  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control  in  patients  for  whom  use  of  a  thiazolidinedione  is 
considered appropriate.  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and will 
be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Onglyza  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
Page 2/2 
 
