European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/CHMP/307173/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MOZOBIL 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): plerixafor 
On 29 May 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Mozobil, 
20 mg/ml,  solution  for  injection  intended  for  the  enhanced  mobilisation  of  progenitor  cells  prior  to 
stem  cell  transplantation  in  patients  with  lymphoma  and  multiple  myeloma  whose  haematopoietic 
stem  cells  mobilise  poorly.  Mozobil  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  20  October 
2004. The applicant for this medicinal product is Genzyme Europe B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Mozobil  is  plerixafor,  an  immunostimulant  therapeutic  class  medicinal 
product  (ATC  code:  L03AX16)  that  reversibly  antagonizes  the  CXCR4  chemokine  receptor  and 
blocks  binding  of  stromal  cell-derived  factor-1α  (SDF-1α).  This  results  in  mobilization  of 
haematopoietic  stem  cells  (HSCs)  to  the  peripheral  blood  where  they  can  be  collected  for  HSC 
transplantation.  
The benefits with  Mozobil in conjunction with G-CSF are the increased number of patients who reach 
a  target  number  of  cell  mobilisation  compared  to  G-CSF  alone,  as  shown  in  randomized  placebo-
controlled  trials  in  patients  with  lymphoma  and  multiple  myeloma  undergoing  mobilisation  for 
autologous HSC transplantation. 
The most common side effects are diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), injection site redness or irritation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Mozobil as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Mozobil is indicated in combination with G-CSF to enhance mobilisation 
of  haematopoietic  stem  cells  to  the  peripheral  blood  for  collection  and  subsequent  autologous 
transplantation  in  patients  with  lymphoma  and  multiple  myeloma  whose  cells  mobilise  poorly  (see 
section  4.2  of  SPC)”.  It  is  proposed  that  Mozobil  therapy  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a 
physician  experienced  in  oncology  and/or  haematology.  The  mobilisation  and  apheresis  procedures 
should  be  performed  in  collaboration  with  an  oncology-haematology  centre  with  acceptable 
experience in this field and where the monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly 
performed. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Mozobil  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation   
Page 2/2 
 
