European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/580914/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for 
ROACTEMRA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tocilizumab 
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
RoActemra,  20  mg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  intended  for  treatment  of  moderate  to 
severe  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  in  adult  patients.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Roche Registration Limited. 
The active substance of RoActemra is tocilizumab, an immunosuppressant, interleukin inhibitor (ATC 
code: L04AC07). RoActemra is a recombinant humanised anti-human interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) 
monoclonal antibody of the immunoglobulin IgG1 subclass. It blocks the activity of interleukin-6 (IL-
6),  which  is  a  multi-functional  cytokine,  produced  by  a  variety  of  cell  types  and  involved  in  T-cell 
activation, induction of acute phase proteins and stimulation of haematopoiesis. 
The benefits with RoActemra are the alleviation of the signs and symptoms of RA.  The most common 
side  effects  are  upper  respiratory  tract  infections,  nasopharyngitis,  headache  and  hypertension.  Main 
recognised risks with tocilizumab therapy are infections, gastrointestinal disorders, infusion reactions, 
skin disorders, neutropenia, elevation in hepatic enzymes and lipid parameters. A pharmacovigilance 
plan  for  RoActemra,  as  for  all  medicinal  products,  will  be  implemented  as  part  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “RoActemra, in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the 
treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA)  in  adult  patients  who  have  either 
responded  inadequately  to,  or  who  were  intolerant  to,  previous  therapy  with  one  or  more  disease 
modifying  anti-rheumatic  drugs  (DMARDs)  or  tumour  necrosis  factor  (TNF)  antagonists.  In  these 
patients, RoActemra can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or where continued 
treatment with MTX is inappropriate.”  
Treatment should be initiated by healthcare professionals experienced in the diagnosis and treatment 
of RA. Patients treated with RoActemra should be given the Patient Alert Card. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  RoActemra  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
