European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/342542/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ZYPADHERA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): olanzapine 
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Zypadhera,  210  mg,  300  mg,  405  mg  powder  for  suspension  for  injection  intended  for  treatment  of 
schizophrenia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Zypadhera  is  olanzapine  (as  pamoate  monohydrate),  an  antipsychotic 
medicinal product (ATC code: N05AH03) with a broad binding and pharmacological profile. In vitro, 
olanzapine showed medium-to-high affinity (Ki <100 nM) for dopamine D1, D2, D3, D4.2, D5, serotonin 
5-HT2A,  5-HT2C,  5-HT3,  5-HT6,  α1-adrenergic,  histamine  H1,  and  5  muscarinic  receptor  subtypes. 
Olanzapine  had  lower  affinity  for  α2-adrenergic  receptors  and  relatively  low  affinity  for  5-HT1 
subtypes,  GABAA,  β-adrenergic,  and  benzodiazepine  binding  sites.  Overall,  the  binding  profile  of 
olanzapine  is  very  similar  to  that  produced  by  clozapine,  although  the  affinity  of  olanzapine  is 
somewhat higher at dopamine receptors and lower at α2-adrenergic receptors. 
The benefits with Zypadhera are, 
• 
its  superiority  over  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  as  demonstrated  in  a  8-week 
randomized  placebo  controlled  superiority  study  that  showed  that  mean  decreases  in  Positive  and 
Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores compared to placebo arm from baseline to endpoint 
(week 8) were as follows: Zypadhera 300 mg/2 weeks: 17.81 points (p<0.001), Zypadhera 405 mg/4 
weeks:  14.06  points  (p<0.001),  Zypadhera  210  mg/2  weeks:  13.98  points  (p<0.001).  All  Zypadhera 
treatments were superior to placebo from week 1 visit on and continued to be more effective through-
out  the  study  period.  None  of  the  Zypadhera  treatments  were  superior  to  any  one  of  two  other 
Zypadhera treatments over 8 weeks.  
• 
non  inferior  efficacy  as  compared  to  oral  olanzapine  in  terms  of  exacerbation  rates  after  24 
weeks, and superior efficacy of 300 mg/ 2weeks, 405 mg/4 weeks, and 15 mg/2weeks as compared to 
45  mg/2  weeks  (low  dose  close  to  placebo)  in  terms  of  time  to  exacerbation  of  symptoms  of 
schizophrenia.  Analysis  of  the  first  primary  variable  showed  that  Zypadhera  in  the  pooled  2-week 
group analysis was no inferior to oral olanzapine (10-20 mg).  
The most common side effects are comparable to the ones observed with oral olanzapine, i.e., weight 
gain,  somnolence,  elevated  plasma  prolactin  levels,  elevated  cholesterol,  glucose  and  triglycerides 
levels,  glucosuria,  increased  appetite,  dizziness,  akathisia,  parkinsonism,  dyskinesia,  orthostatic 
hypotension,  mild,  transient  anticholinergic  effects  including  constipation  and  dry  mouth,  transient, 
asymptomatic  elevations  of  hepatic  transaminases  (ALT,  AST),  especially  in  early  treatment,  rash, 
asthenia, fatigue, oedema. 
However,  specific  aspects  related  to  the  different  formulation  were  identified.  In  particular,  post 
injection syndrome events caused by inadvertent intravenous administration, presented with signs and 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
symptoms  consistent  with  olanzapine  overdose.  These  events  occurred  in  0.7%  of  injections  and 
approximately 1.4% of patients. Most of these patients have developed symptoms of sedation (ranging 
from  mild  in  severity  up  to  coma)  and/or  delirium  (including  confusion,  disorientation,  agitation, 
anxiety  and  other  cognitive  impairment).  Other  symptoms  noted  include  extrapyramidal  symptoms, 
dysarthria, ataxia, aggression, dizziness, weakness, hypertension or possible convulsion. In most cases, 
initial signs and symptoms related to this event have appeared within 1 hour following injection, and 
in all cases full recovery was reported to have occurred within 24 – 72 hours after injection. 
Another  aspect  specific  for  Zypadhera  was  represented  by  the  treatment-emergent  injection-site-
related adverse events. The analysis of all these events demonstrated that injection-site pain is the most 
common event (5.5% in the Overall Integrated Database) and that most patients reported it as “mild” 
in severity. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zypadhera, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Maintenance treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia sufficiently 
stabilised during acute treatment with oral olanzapine”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Zypadhera  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
