European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/582879/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
LAMIVUDINE TEVA PHARMA B.V. 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): lamivudine 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.,  150mg  and  300mg,  film-coated  tablet,  indicated  as  part  of 
antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV infected adults and children.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The active substance of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. is lamivudine (J05AF05), an antiviral agent. It 
is a pyrimidine nucleoside analogue which is used as nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) 
for the combination treatment of HIV infection.  
Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  is  a  generic  of  Epivir,  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since 
8 August 1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V., 
and  its  bioequivalence  with  Epivir.  A  question-and-answer  document  on  generic  medicines  can  be 
found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V., as for all medicinal products, will be 
implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  Lamivudine  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  is  indicated  as  part  of  antiretroviral 
combination therapy for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infected adults and 
children.  The  therapy  should  be  initiated  by  a  physician  experienced  in  the  management  of  HIV 
infection. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Lamivudine  Teva Pharma  B.V. and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
