European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 October 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/649306/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
SCINTIMUN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): besilesomab 
On  22  October  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Scintimun  1  mg,  kit  for  radiopharmaceutical  preparation,  intended  for  scintigraphic  imaging,  in 
conjunction  with  other  appropriate 
location  of 
imaging  modalities, 
inflammation/infection  in  peripheral  bone  in  adults  with  suspected  osteomyelitis.  The  applicant  for 
this medicinal product is CIS bio international. 
for  determining 
the 
The  active  substance  of  Scintimun  is  besilesomab,  a  monoclonal  antibody  that  specifically  binds  to 
NCA-95  (non  specific  cross-reacting  antigen 95),  an  epitope  expressed  at  the  cell  membrane  of 
granulocytes and granulocyte precursors (V09HA03).  
The  benefits  with  Scintimun  are  in  vivo  labelling  of  granulocytes,  which  avoids  the  risks  of ex  vivo 
blood  cells  labelling  and  re-administration  (99mTc  white  blood  cells),  the  satisfactory  agreement  rate 
between the two methods and also the good quality of images achieved (technical performance). The 
most  common  side  effect  is  the  development  of  Human  Anti-Mouse  Antibodies  (HAMA).  Patients 
who are HAMA positive may have a greater risk for  hypersensitivity reactions and therefore should 
not be administered Scintimun. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Scintimun, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only and the approved indication is scintigraphic imaging, 
in  conjunction  with  other  appropriate  imaging  modalities,  for  determining  the  location  of 
inflammation/infection in peripheral bone in adults with suspected osteomyelitis. Scintimun should not 
be used for the diagnosis of diabetic foot infection.  
It  is  proposed  that  Scintimun  is  prescribed  by  physicians,  used  in  designated  nuclear  medicine 
facilities only, and only handled by authorised personnel. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Scintimun for scintigraphic imaging, in conjunction with other 
appropriate  imaging  modalities,  for  determining  the  location  of  inflammation/infection  in  peripheral 
bone in adults with suspected osteomyelitis and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
