European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/305809/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CLOPIDOGREL TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel 
On 29 May 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Clopidogrel 
Teva  75  mg  film-coated  tablets  intended  for  use  in  adults  for  the  prevention  of  atherothrombotic 
events  in  patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease, and 
in patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva 
Pharma B.V. 
The active substance of Clopidogrel Teva is clopidogrel (as hydrogen sulphate), a platelet aggregation 
inhibitor  other  than  heparin  (ATC  code:  B01AC04).  Clopidogrel  selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of 
ADP to its platelet receptor, and the subsequent ADP-mediated activation of the GPIIb/IIIa complex, 
thereby  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation.  Biotransformation  of  clopidogrel  is  necessary  to  produce 
inhibition of platelet aggregation. 
Clopidogrel  Teva  is  a  generic  of  Plavix,  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since  15  July  1998. 
Studies  have  demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Clopidogrel  Teva,  and  its  bioequivalence  with 
Plavix. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in:  
• Patients suffering from  myocardial infarction (from a few days until less than 35 days), ischaemic 
stroke (from 7 days until less than 6 months) or established peripheral arterial disease.  
• Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome:  
-  Non-ST  segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave 
myocardial  infarction),  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).  
-  ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction,  in  combination  with  ASA  in  medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy.'' 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Clopidogrel Teva, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as 
part of the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Clopidogrel Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
