European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/376839/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
MULTAQ 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): dronedarone 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  granting  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Multaq 400 mg film-coated tablet indicated in adult clinically stable patients with history of, or current 
non-permanent  atrial  fibrillation  (AF)  to  prevent  recurrence  of  AF  or  to  lower  ventricular  rate  (see 
section
5.1).  
The active substance of Multaq is dronedarone an antiarrhythmic medicinal product (ATC code: not 
yet  assigned).  Dronedarone  has  electrophysiological  properties  belonging  to  all  four  Vaughan-
Williams classes. Dronedarone is a multi-channel blocker inhibiting the potassium currents (including 
IK (Ach), IKur, IKr, IKs) and thus prolonging cardiac action potential and refractory periods (Class 
III).  It  also  inhibits  the  sodium  currents  (Class  Ib)  and  the  calcium  currents  (Class  IV).  It  non-
competitively antagonises adrenergic activities (Class II). 
The benefit with dronedarone is its antiarrhythmic (rhythm and rate control) properties in patients with 
atrial fibrillation. It has been shown to  decrease the  risk of atrial  fibrillation-related hospitalisations. 
The most common adverse reactions are diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, fatigue and asthenia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Multaq, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: MULTAQ is indicated in adult clinically stable patients with history of, or 
current non-permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) to prevent recurrence of AF or to lower ventricular rate 
(see section 5.1).  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Multaq and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
