European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 May 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/282149/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VEDROP 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tocofersolan 
On 29 May 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances  for  the 
medicinal product Vedrop, 50 mg/ml, oral solution indicated in vitamin E deficiency due to digestive 
malabsorption  in  paediatric  patients  suffering  from  congenital  chronic  cholestasis  or  hereditary 
chronic cholestasis. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Orphan Europe S.A.R.L. 
The active substance of Vedrop is tocofersolan, an alimentary tract and metabolism medicinal product 
(ATC  code  A11  HA08,  other  plain  vitamin  preparations).  Tocofersolan,  is  vitamin E  that  has  been 
made water-soluble by attaching it to polyethylene glycol 1000, and thereby can be absorbed from the 
gut in patients who have difficulty absorbing fats and vitamin E from the diet due congenital chronic 
or hereditary chronic cholestasis. The use of vitamin E preparations in this population helps to prevent 
neurological deterioration due to vitamin E deficiency. 
The  benefits  with  Vedrop  are  improvement  or  stabilisation  of  neurological  abnormalities  due  to 
vitamin  E  deficiency  in patients  with  congenital  chronic  or  hereditary  chronic cholestasis.  The  most 
common side effect is diarrhoea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vedrop, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Vedrop  is  indicated  in  vitamin  E  deficiency  due  to  digestive 
malabsorption  in  paediatric  patients  suffering  from  congenital  chronic  cholestasis  or  hereditary 
chronic cholestasis, from birth (in term newborns) to 16 or 18 years of age, depending on the region”.  
It  is  proposed  that  the  treatment  with  Vedrop  should  be  initiated  and  supervised  by  a  physician 
experienced in the management of patients suffering from congenital chronic cholestasis or hereditary 
chronic cholestasis. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission.  
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Vedrop and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances**. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances refers to the fact that in exceptional 
circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
