European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/446601/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
FOCLIVIA 
Common Name: A/Viet Nam/1194/2004 (H5N1) virus surface inactivated antigen 
On 23 July 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances for the 
medicinal product Foclivia, 15 µg/ml, suspension for injection intended for prophylaxis of influenza in 
an  officially  declared  pandemic  situation.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Novartis 
Vaccines and Diagnostics S.r.l. 
The active substance of Foclivia is A/Viet Nam/1194/2004 (H5N1) virus surface inactivated antigen. 
Foclivia  is  a  mock-up,  surface  antigen,  inactivated,  adjuvanted  influenza  vaccine  (J07BB02)  that 
induces an immune response (circulating antibodies) against the H5N1 antigen. This vaccine will only 
be  used  in  an  officially  declared  influenza  pandemic  and  after  inclusion  of  the  exact  matching 
pandemic  influenza  vaccine  strain  into  the  vaccine.  For  more  information  on  mock-up  (pandemic) 
vaccine, please consult the Question and Answer document. 
The benefits with Foclivia are that it can mount an appropriate immune response in individuals that are 
immunologically naïve against the mock-up vaccine strain. Data obtained with this mock-up vaccine 
will  support  a  vaccination  strategy  that  is  likely  to  be  used  for  the  pandemic  vaccine.  The  most 
common side effects are myalgia, headache and arthralgia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Foclivia, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Prophylaxis  of  influenza  in  an  officially  declared  pandemic  situation. 
Pandemic influenza vaccine should be used in accordance with Official Guidance”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  authorised  medicinal  product, 
Focetria,  considers  that  there  is  a  favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Foclivia  and  therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances***.  
* 
** 
*** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances refers to the fact that in exceptional 
circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
