European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/574426/2008 
 COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ZARZIO 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): filgrastim   
On  20  November  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Zarzio, 30 MU/0.5 ml, 48 MU/0.5 ml, solution for injection or infusion, intended for the treatment of 
neutropenia. The Applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Zarzio  is  filgrastim,  an  immunostimulating  medicinal  product  (ATC  Code: 
L03AA02)  which  regulates  the  production  and  release  of  functional  neutrophils  from  the  bone 
marrow. 
Zarzio is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Neupogen authorised in the 
EU. Studies have shown Zarzio to have a comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to Neupogen 
(filgrastim). The most common side effects are bone, joint and muscle pain, elevations in blood levels 
of  uric  acid  and  certain  enzymes,  decreases  in  blood  glucose,  leucocytosis,  thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, headache, nose bleed and enlarged spleen. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zarzio, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
(cid:131)  The approved indication is: 
 -  Reduction  in  the  duration  of  neutropenia  and  the  incidence  of  febrile  neutropenia  in  patients 
treated  with  established  cytotoxic  chemotherapy  for  malignancy  (with  the  exception  of  chronic 
myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and reduction in the duration of neutropenia 
in patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow transplantation considered 
to be at increased risk of prolonged severe neutropenia. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim are 
similar in adults and children receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
- Mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells. 
- In patients (children or adults) with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of ≤ 0.5 x 109/L, and a history of severe or recurrent infections, 
long term administration is indicated to increase neutrophil counts and to reduce the incidence and 
duration of infection-related events. 
-  Treatment  of  persistent  neutropenia  (ANC  ≤  1.0  x  109/L)  in  patients  with  advanced  HIV 
infection,  in  order  to  reduce  the  risk  of  bacterial  infections  when  other  therapeutic  options  are 
inappropriate”. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 It  is  proposed  that  Zarzio  therapy  should  only  be  given  in  collaboration  with  an  oncology  centre 
which  has  experience  in  granulocyte-colony  stimulating  factor  (G-CSF)  treatment  and  haematology 
and  has  the  necessary  diagnostic  facilities.  The  mobilisation  and  apheresis  procedures  should  be 
performed  in  collaboration  with  an  oncology-haematology  centre  with  acceptable  experience  in  this 
field and where the monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Zarzio and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/574426/2008 0.6, CURRENT 
Page 2/2 
 
