European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 June 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/44000/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
INTELENCE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): etravirine 
On 26 June 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  conditional  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Intelence, 100 mg, tablet intended for treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection 
in  antiretroviral  treatment-experienced  adult  patients.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
Janssen-Cilag International NV. 
The  active  substance  of  Intelence  is  etravirine,  a  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor 
(NNRTI)  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  type  1  (ATC  Code:  not  yet  assigned).  It  inhibits  viral 
replication  by  binding  directly  to  the  reverse  transcriptase  and  blocking  viral  DNA  polymerase 
activities. 
The  benefits  with  Intelence  when  used  in  combination  with  a  boosted  protease  inhibitor  and  other 
antiretroviral medicinal products are its ability to reduce the amount of HIV in plasma (viral load) and 
to  increase  the  number  of  T  cells  (specifically  CD4  cells)  in  treatment-experienced  adult  patients 
infected  with  HIV-1.  This  was  shown  in  two  double-blind,  randomized,  placebo-controlled  studies 
evaluating the efficacy, tolerability and safety of etravirine (200 mg b.i.d.) as part of an antiretroviral 
therapy  including  darunavir/ritonavir  and  an  investigator-selected  optimised  background  regimen 
(OBR) in HIV-1 infected subjects with limited to no treatment options. Patients in these studies were 
infected with HIV that showed resistance to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (at least 1 
NNRTI resistance-associated mutation) and protease inhibitors (3 or more primary PI mutations). At 
Week 24, etravirine is shown to be statistically superior to placebo in terms of percentage of patients 
achieving undetectable viral load. The most common side effects are rash, diarrhoea and nausea. Rash 
was  most  frequently  mild  to  moderate,  occurred  mostly  in  the  beginning  of  therapy  and  generally 
resolved on continued therapy. Occasionally rash may become severe. Rash has been identified as an 
important risk and will hence specifically be followed up. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Intelence, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Intelence,  in  combination  with  a  boosted  protease  inhibitor  and  other 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus 
type 1  (HIV-1)  infection  in  antiretroviral  treatment-experienced  adult  patients  (see  sections  4.4,  4.5 
and  5.1).  This  indication  is  based  on  week 24  analyses  from  2 randomised,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Phase III trials in highly pre-treated patients with viral strains harbouring mutations 
of resistance to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and protease inhibitors, where Intelence 
was  investigated  in  combination  with  an  optimised  background  regimen  (OBR)  which  included 
darunavir/ritonavir (see section 5.1).” It is proposed that therapy with Intelence should be initiated by 
a physician experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Intelence  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional***. 
*** 
A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical 
need when the benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact 
that additional data are still required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide 
comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
EMEA/CHMP/44000/2008  
Page 2/2 
 
                                                     
 
