European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/382675/2007 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for 
TYVERB 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): lapatinib 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,∗∗  recommending  to  grant  a  conditional  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Tyverb,  250  mg,  film-coated  tablet,  intended  for  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic 
breast  cancer  whose  tumours  overexpress  ErbB2  (HER2)  and  who  have  received  prior  therapy 
including anthracyclines, taxanes and trastuzumab. The applicant for this medicinal product is Glaxo 
Group Limited. 
The active substance of Tyverb is lapatinib, a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (L01XE07) that inhibits 
tumour  cell  growth  by  dually  inhibiting  the  growth  factor  receptors  ErbB1  (EGFR)  and  ErbB2 
(HER2). 
The  benefits  with  Tyverb  are  in  terms  of  increased  time  to  progression  evaluated  in  a  randomized 
phase III trial comparing lapatinib in combination with capecitabine vs. capecitabine in patients with 
ErbB2(Her2)-over-expressing,  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer.  The  most  common  side 
effects are gastrointestinal disorders (diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting,  dyspepsia, stomatitis, constipation 
and abdominal pain), skin disorders (rash, dry skin, and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia), anorexia, 
fatigue, pain in extremities and back, mucosal inflammation and insomnia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Tyverb, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Tyverb, in combination with capecitabine, is indicated for the treatment of 
patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  whose  tumours  overexpress  ErbB2  (HER2). 
Patients  should  have  progressive  disease  following  prior  therapy  which  must  include  anthracyclines 
and taxanes and therapy with trastuzumab in the metastatic setting. 
It is proposed that Tyverb is prescribed by physicians experienced in the administration of anti-cancer 
agents. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Tyverb and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional***. 
∗  
∗∗  
*** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued 
within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their intention 
to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical need when the benefit 
to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. The 
marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
