European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, Thursday 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/608839/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CORLENTOR/PROCOROLAN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): ivabradine 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal  products  Corlentor/Procorolan.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal 
product is Les Laboratoires Servier. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
Ivabradine is indicated : 
in  combination  with  beta-blockers  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  with  an  optimal  beta-blocker 
dose and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm. 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Corlentor/Procorolan will be as follows***: 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery disease patients with 
normal sinus rhythm.  
Ivabradine is indicated : 
-  in patients unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
- or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal beta-blocker 
dose  and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm.  
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
