European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 18 December 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/591490/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
EFIENT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): prasugrel 
On  18  December  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Efient , 
5  mg  and  10  mg  film-coated  tablets  intended  for  prophylaxis  against  atherothrombotic  events  in 
patients  with  acute  coronary  syndrome  undergoing  primary  or  delayed  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention. The applicant for this medicinal product is Eli Lilly. 
The  active  substance  of  Efient  is  prasugrel;  therapeutic  class  and  ATC  Code  not  assigned  yet. 
Prasugrel is an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation through the irreversible binding of its 
active  metabolite  to  the  P2Y12  class  of  ADP  receptors  on  platelets.  Since  platelets  participate  in  the 
initiation and/or evolution of thrombotic complications of atherosclerotic disease, inhibition of platelet 
function  can  result  in  the  reduction  of  the  rate  of  cardiovascular  events  such  as  death,  myocardial 
infarction, or stroke. 
The  benefit  of  Efient,  when  administered  with  acetylsalicylic  acid  (75  mg  to  325  mg),  is  the 
prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome who undergo primary 
or delayed percutaneous coronary intervention. Prasugrel is administered as a loading dose of 60 mg 
and a once daily maintenance dose of 10 mg. However, for patients at special risk (>75 years, < 60 
kg), a dose reduction is strongly recommended. Following the administration of a loading dose of 60 
mg, the 5 mg once daily maintenance dose is to be given. The most common side effects are bleeding, 
anaemia, haematoma and gastrointestinal haemorrhage. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Efient, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  co-administered  with  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA),  is  indicated  for  the 
prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome (i.e. unstable angina, 
non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction [UA/NSTEMI] or ST segment elevation myocardial 
infarction [STEMI]) undergoing primary or delayed percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Efient and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
