European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/267113/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
ZYLLT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), having considered 
new information, adopted a positive opinion,∗∗∗ recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for 
the  medicinal  product  Zyllt,  75 mg  film-coated  tablets  intended  for  prevention  of  atherothrombotic 
events  in  patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  or  from  acute  coronary  syndrome.  The 
Applicant for this medicinal product is KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto..  
The  active  substance  of  Zyllt  is  clopidogrel  (as  hydrogen  sulphate),  a  platelet  aggregation  inhibitor 
excl.  heparin  medicinal  product  (B01AC04).  Zyllt  selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of  ADP  to  its 
platelet  receptor,  and  the  subsequent  ADP-mediated  activation  of  the  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby 
inhibiting platelet aggregation. Biotransformation of clopidogrel is necessary to produce inhibition of 
platelet aggregation. 
Zyllt  is  a  generic  of  Plavix,  which  has  been  authorised  in  the  EU  since  15  July  1998.  Studies  have 
demonstrated  the  satisfactory  quality  of  Zyllt,  and  its  bioequivalence  with  Plavix.  A  question-and-
answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zyllt, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in: 
•  Patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic  stroke  (from  7  days  until  less  than  6  months)  or  established  peripheral  arterial 
disease. 
•  Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
-  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial  infarction),  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction,  in  combination  with  ASA  in 
medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy”. 
- 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zyllt, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion.  
∗∗ ∗   Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax 44-20) 74 18 85 45   
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk  balance for Zyllt and therefore recommends the granting of the  marketing 
authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/267113/2009 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
