European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 March 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/146782/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VIREAD 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 
On 19 March 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion**  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal 
product  Viread.  The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Gilead  Sciences 
International Ltd. 
The CHMP adopted a new indication as follows: 
 “Hepatitis B infection: Viread is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults 
with  compensated  liver  disease,  with  evidence  of  active  viral  replication,  persistently 
elevated  serum  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  evidence  of  active 
inflammation and/or fibrosis. 
This  indication  is  based  on  histological,  virological,  biochemical  and  serological  responses 
mainly  in  adult  nucleoside-naïve  patients  with  HBeAg positive  and  HBeAg negative 
chronic hepatitis B with compensated liver function.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication(s) for Viread will be as follows***: 
“HIV-1 infection: Viread is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for 
the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults over 18 years of age. 
The demonstration of benefit of Viread in HIV-1 infection is based on results of one study in 
treatment-naïve patients, including patients with a high viral load (> 100,000 copies/ml) and studies in 
which Viread was added to stable background therapy (mainly tritherapy) in antiretroviral pre-treated 
patients experiencing early virological failure (< 10,000 copies/ml, with the majority of patients 
having < 5,000 copies/ml). 
The choice of Viread to treat antiretroviral experienced patients with HIV-1 infection should be based 
on individual viral resistance testing and/or treatment history of patients. 
Hepatitis B infection: Viread is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with 
compensated liver disease, with evidence of active viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and histological evidence of active inflammation and/or 
fibrosis. 
This indication is based on histological, virological, biochemical and serological responses 
mainly in adult nucleoside-naïve patients with HBeAg positive and HBeAg negative 
chronic hepatitis B with compensated liver function.” 
* 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
**  Marketing Authorisation Holders may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
***  The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
