European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/141689/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VICTOZA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): liraglutide 
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Victoza 
6 mg/ml  solution  for  injection  in  a  pre-filled  pen  intended  for  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Novo Nordisk A/S. 
The active substance of Victoza is liraglutide, a GLP-1 analogue medicinal product (A10BX07). Like 
native  GLP-1,  the  mechanism  of  action  of  liraglutide  is  mediated  via  a  specific  action  on  GLP-1 
receptors,  which  leads  to  a  stimulation  of  insulin  secretion  and  decrease  glucagon  secretion  in  a 
glucose-dependent manner, a delay in gastric emptying, and a minor reduction in appetite. 
The benefits with Victoza are its demonstrated clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control in type 2 
diabetic  patients  if  used  in  combination  with  sulphonylurea,  with  metformin,  with  metformin  and 
thiazolidinedione or with metformin and sulphonylurea. Another benefit of Victoza is the associated 
loss in body weight. 
The  most  common  side  effects  are  gastrointestinal  disorders,  in  particular  nausea  and  diarrhoea. 
Additionally,  when  taking  Victoza  with  metformin  headache  is  also  very  common.  When  taking 
Victoza with metformin and glimepiride hypoglycaemia is also a very common side effect. And when 
taking Victoza with metformin and rosiglitazone vomiting is also a very common side effect. 
Specific safety issues regarding thyroid c-cell cancers, the risk of pancreatitis and neoplasms and the 
need  for  a  long-term  cardiovascular  outcome  study  have  been  evaluated  and  addressed  in  the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SPC),  in  the  Risk  Management  Plan  and  as  post-authorisation 
follow-up measures. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Victoza, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
“Treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic control: 
In combination with: 
–  Metformin  or  a  sulphonylurea,  in  patients  with  insufficient  glycaemic  control  despite  maximal 
tolerated dose of monotherapy with metformin or sulphonylurea 
In combination with: 
–  Metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea  or  metformin  and  a  thiazolidinedione  in  patients  with  insufficient 
glycaemic control despite dual therapy”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and will 
be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  marketing  authorisation  has  been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Victoza and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/141689/2009  
Page 2/2 
 
