European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/175954/2009  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RENVELA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sevelamer (carbonate) 
On 19 March 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Renvela, 
800mg film-coated tablets and 1.6 and 2.4 g powder for oral suspension, intended for the control of 
hyperphosphataemia  in  adult  patients  receiving  haemodialysis  or  peritoneal  dialysis.  Renvelais  also 
indicated for the control of hyperphosphataemia in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not on 
dialysis with serum phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/l.  The applicant for this medicinal product is Genzyme 
Europe B.V. 
The active substance of Renvela, sevelamer carbonate, is classified pharmacologically as a phosphate 
binder (ATC Code: V03AE02). It contains multiple amines separated by one carbon from the polymer 
backbone. These amines become partially protonated in the intestine and interact with phosphate ions 
through  ionic  and  hydrogen  bonding.  By  binding  phosphate  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  sevelamer 
incidence  of 
lowers 
hypercalcaemic  episodes  as  compared  to  patients  using  calcium  based  phosphate  binders  alone, 
probably because the product itself does not contain calcium. 
the  serum.  Sevelamer  decreases 
the  phosphate  concentration 
the 
in 
The  benefits  with  Renvelaare  its  phosphate-lowering  effect  for  controlling  hyperphosphataemia  in 
adult patients on dialysis and in adult patients with chronic kidney disease not on dialysis with serum 
phosphorus  >  1.78  mmol/l.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  nausea,  vomiting,  upper  abdominal 
pain, constipation (very common) and diarrhoea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal pain (common). 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Renvela, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Renvela  is  indicated  for  the  control  of  hyperphosphataemia  in  adult 
patients  receiving  haemodialysis  or  peritoneal  dialysis.    Renvela  is  also  indicated  for  the  control  of 
hyperphosphataemia  in  adult  patients  with  chronic  kidney  disease  not  on  dialysis  with  serum 
phosphorus > 1.78 mmol/l”.  
Renvela  should  be  used  within  the  context  of  a  multiple  therapeutic  approach,  which  could  include 
calcium supplement, 1,25-dihydroxy Vitamin D3 or one of its analogues to control the development of 
renal bone disease. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 1884 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Renvela and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
 2/2 
