European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc. Ref. EMEA/592212/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
IRBESARTAN/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE TEVA 
International Nonproprietary Names (INN): irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  150/12.5,  150/25  and  300/25  mg  film-coated  tablets,  intended 
for: “Treatment of essential hypertension. This fixed dose combination is indicated in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone”. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. 
The  active  substances  of  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  are  irbesartan,  an  angiotensin  II 
antagonist, plain, medicinal product acting as a selective angiotensin II receptor (type AT1) antagonist 
and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic (C09CA04). 
15  October 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a generic of CoAprovel which has been authorised in the EU 
since 
of 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, and its bioequivalence with CoAprovel. A question-and-answer 
document on generic medicines can be found here. 
1998.  Studies 
demonstrated 
satisfactory 
quality 
have 
the 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Treatment  of  essential  hypertension.  This  fixed  dose  combination  is 
indicated  in  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  not  adequately  controlled  on  irbesartan  or 
hydrochlorothiazide alone”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and therefore recommends 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
