European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 April 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/212696/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
NYMUSA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): caffeine  
On 23 April 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Nymusa, 
caffeine  citrate  60  mg/3  ml,  solution  for  infusion  and  oral  solution  intended  for  the  treatment  of 
primary apnoea of premature newborns. 
Nymusa was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 17 February 2003 The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA. 
The  active  substance  of  Nymusa  is  caffeine  citrate,  a  Xanthine  derivative  (N06BC01)  which  acts 
through the adenosine receptors as a respiratory stimulant. 
The  benefits  with  Nymusa  are  its  ability  to  decrease  the  frequency  of  apnoeic  episodes,  increase 
respiratory rate and blood pH, decrease pCO2, and improve the function of the respiratory muscles in 
premature  infants  with  recurrent  apnoea.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  CNS  stimulation, 
irritability, tachycardia, hypertension. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Nymusa, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “treatment of primary apnoea of premature newborns”. It is proposed that 
Nymusa is prescribed by physicians experienced in neonatal intensive care.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Nymusa and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
