European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 26 June 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/209605/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for 
VIMPAT 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): lacosamide 
On 26 June 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vimpat, 50 mg, 
100 mg, 150 mg, 200 mg, film-coated tablet, 15 mg/ml syrup, 10 mg/ml solution for infusion intended 
for  adjunctive  therapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial-onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalisation  in  patients  with  epilepsy  aged  16  years  and  older  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is UCB Pharma S.A.. 
The  active  substance  of  Vimpat  is  lacosamide,  an  anti-epileptic  medicinal  product  (ATC  code: 
(N03AX18).  A  dual  mode  of  action  is  hypothesised  for  Vimpat:  it  selectively  enhances  slow 
inactivation  of  voltage-gated  sodium  channels  (VGSC),  resulting  in  stabilization  of  hyperexcitable 
physiological neuronal excitability. In addition, it interacts with collapsin response mediator protein-2 
(CRMP-2), a protein mainly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) and involved in neuronal 
differentiation and axonal outgrowth. 
The benefits with Vimpat are its antiepileptic effect as adjunctive treatment of partial seizures, which 
has  been  satisfactorily  documented.  Thirty-four  percent  of  patients  treated  with  Vimpat  200  mg/day 
and  40%  of  patients  treated  with  Vimpat  400  mg/day  showed  response  to  treatment  vs  23%  in  the 
placebo  group.  Response  is  defined  as  50%  reduction  in  seizure  frequency  from  baseline  to 
maintenance phase. The most common side effects are dizziness, headache, diplopia and nausea. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vimpat, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: Vimpat is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset 
seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy aged 16 years and older. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Vimpat and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
