European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/304729/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
TADALAFIL LILLY 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): tadalafil 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Tadalafil Lilly, 
20  mg,  oral  use,  intended  for  the  treatment  of  erectile  dysfunction.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
The  active  substance  of  Tadalafil  Lilly  is  tadalafil,  a  medicinal  product  used  in  erectile  dysfunction 
(ATC  Code  G04BE08).  Tadalafil 
inhibitor  of  cyclic  guanosine 
monophosphate  (cGMP)-specific  phosphodiesterase  type  5  (PDE5).  When  sexual  stimulation  causes 
the local release of nitric oxide, inhibition of PDE5 by tadalafil produces increased levels of cGMP in 
the corpus cavernosum. This results in smooth muscle relaxation and inflow of blood into the penile 
tissues, thereby producing an erection. Tadalafil has no effect in the absence of sexual stimulation.  
is  a  selective,  reversible 
The  benefit  of  Tadalafil  Lilly  is  the  improved  erectile  function  for  the  sexual  activity.  The  most 
common side effects are headache, dyspepsia, back pain, myalgia, and flushing and nasal congestion. 
Mechanism of action related vasodilating effect can also be expected. 
A  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Tadalafil  Lilly,  as  for  all  medicinal  products,  will  be  implemented  as 
part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of erectile dysfunction. In order for tadalafil to be effective, 
sexual stimulation is required. Tadalafil Lilly is not indicated for use by women”. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Tadalafil  Lilly  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
