18 February 2010 
EMA/CHMP/74631/2010  
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP) 
Summary of opinion1 (initial authorisation) 
Raloxifene Teva 
raloxifene hydrochloride 
On 18 February 2010 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Raloxifene 
Teva 60 mg Film-coated Tablets intended for treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women. A significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral, but not hip fractures has 
been demonstrated. The applicant for this medicinal product is Teva Pharma B.V. They may request a 
re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the European Medicines Agency in writing of 
their intention within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
The active substance of Raloxifene Teva is raloxifene hydrochloride, a Selective Oestrogen Receptor 
Modulator (G03XC01), has selective agonist or antagonist activities on tissues responsive to oestrogen. 
It acts as an agonist on bone and partially on cholesterol metabolism (decrease in total and LDL-
cholesterol), but not in the hypothalamus or in the uterine or breast tissues. The most common side 
effects are vasodilation, flu syndrome, leg cramps and peripheral oedema. 
Raloxifene Teva is a generic of EVISTA. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of 
Raloxifene Teva, and its bioequivalence with the reference product EVISTA. 
The approved indication is: treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.  
Detailed recommendations for the use of this product will be described in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC), which will be published in the European public assessment report (EPAR), and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers there to be a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Raloxifene Teva and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
1 Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the commission decision, which will normally be issued 
67 days from adoption of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
