European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 14 December 2006 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/511166/2006 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
POST-AUTHORISATION SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗
for  
TARCEVA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): erlotinib 
On  14  December  2006  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion∗ ∗  to  recommend  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  marketing  authorisation  for  the 
medicinal product Tarceva. The Marketing Authorisation Holder for this medicinal product is Roche 
Registration Ltd. 
The new indication adopted by CHMP is: 
 “Pancreatic cancer: 
Tarceva in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic 
pancreatic cancer. 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account . 
No survival advantage could be shown for patients with locally advanced disease.” 
Detailed conditions for the use of this product will be described in the updated Summary of Product 
Characteristics  (SPC)  which  will  be  published  in  the  revised  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR)  and  will  be  available  in  all  official  European  Union  languages  after  the  variation  to  the 
marketing authorisation has been granted by the European Commission. 
For information, the full indication of Tarceva will be as follows∗∗∗:  
“Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
Tarceva is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer after failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen. 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into account. 
No survival benefit or other clinically relevant effects of the treatment have been demonstrated in 
patients with EGFR- negative tumours. 
Pancreatic cancer: 
Tarceva in combination with gemcitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic pancreatic cancer. 
When prescribing Tarceva, factors associated with prolonged survival should be taken into 
account. 
No survival advantage could be shown for patients with locally advanced disease.” 
∗   Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be issued within  44 
days (Type II variations) and 67 days (Annex II applications) from adoption of the Opinion. 
∗∗   Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in  writing  of 
their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion.  
∗∗∗ The text in bold represents the new or the amended indication. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2006 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
