European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/528772/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VIDAZA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): azacitidine 
On  23  October  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Vidaza, 
25mg/ml,  powder  for  suspension  for  injection  intended  for  the  treatment  of  myelodysplastic 
syndromes  (MDS)  and  acute  myeloid  leukemia  (AML)  in  adults  who  are  not  eligible  for 
haematopoietic stem  cell transplantation. Vidaza was designated  as an orphan  medicinal product for 
MDS  on  6  February  2002  and  for  AML  on  29  November  2007.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is Celgene Europe Limited. 
The active substance of Vidaza is azacitidine, a pyrimidine analogues medicinal product (L01BC07)  
which is believed to exert its antineoplastic effects by multiple mechanisms including cytotoxicity on 
cells in the bone marrow and hypomethylation of DNA.  
The benefits with Vidaza are its clinical efficacy in terms of survival benefit observed in a randomised 
clinical trial comparing azacitidine plus best supportive care with conventional care regimen. The most 
common  side  effects  reported  with  azacitidine  treatment  were  haematological  reactions  including 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and leukopenia, gastrointestinal events including nausea, vomiting or 
injection site reactions. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Vidaza, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication for Vidaza is:  
For  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  who  are  not  eligible  for  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation 
with: 
•  intermediate-2  and  high-risk  myelodysplastic  syndromes  (MDS)  according  to  the  International 
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS), 
•  chronic  myelomonocytic 
myeloproliferative disorder 
leukaemia 
(CMML)  with  10-29%  marrow  blasts  without 
• acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with 20-30% blasts 
It  is  proposed  that  Vidaza  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  use  of  chemotherapeutic 
agents for the treatment of MDS.   
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Vidaza and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
EMEA/CHMP/528772/2008   
Page 2/2 
 
 
