European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/357818/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for 
XARELTO 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): rivaroxaban 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Xarelto,  10 
mg,Film-coated tablet intended for the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients 
undergoing elective hip or knee replacement surgery. The applicant for this medicinal product is Bayer 
HealthCare AG. 
The  active  substance  of  Xarelto  is  Rivaroxaban,  an  antithrombotic  medicinal  product  (ATC  Code: 
B01AX06.  Rivaroxaban  is  a  highly  selective  direct  factor  Xa  inhibitor  with  oral  bioavailability. 
Inhibition of Factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, 
inhibiting  both  thrombin  formation  and  development  of  thrombi.  Rivaroxaban  does  not  inhibit 
thrombin (activated Factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated.  
The  benefits  with  Xarelto  are  the  reduced  occurrence  of  venous  thromboembolic  events  in  adult 
patients undergoing elective surgery of the hip or knee. The most common side effects are bleedings 
and  vascular  disorders.  Other  common  adverse  effects  included  gastrointestinal  disorders,  such  as 
nausea; investigations, such as increased levels of transaminases and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase; 
and procedural complications, such as postoperative anaemia and haemorrhage. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Xarelto, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Prevention  of  venous  thromboembolism  (VTE)  in  adult  patients 
undergoing elective hip or knee replacement surgery”.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Xarelto and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
