European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 06 May 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/216044/2008-corr 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CLOPIDOGREL WINTHROP  
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel  
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Clopidogrel 
Winthrop, 75 mg and 300mg film-coated tablet intended for prophylaxis against atherothrombotic 
events in patients suffering from myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke or established peripheral 
arterial disease; and patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC. 
. 
The  active  substance  of  Clopidogrel  Winthrop  is  clopidogrel,  a  platelet  aggregation  inhibitors  excl. 
heparin medicinal product (B01AC04). Clopidogrel Winthrop selectively inhibits the binding of ADP 
to  its  platelet  receptor,  and  the  subsequent  ADP-mediated  activation  of  the  GPIIb/IIIa  complex, 
thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation.  
The  clinical  benefit  of  Clopidogrel  Winthrop  is  the  reduction  it  produces  in  the  incidence  of  new 
ischaemic events in patients with clinical evidence of atherosclerosis. The most common side effects are 
bleeding, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and dyspepsia.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Clopidogrel Winthrop, as for all medicinal products, will be 
implemented as part of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in: 
• 
• 
* 
** 
Patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35 days), 
ischaemic  stroke  (from  7 days  until  less  than  6 months)  or  established  peripheral  arterial 
disease. 
Patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome: 
-  Non-ST  segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave 
myocardial  infarction),  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following 
percutaneous coronary intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). 
ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction, in combination with ASA in medically 
treated patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. 
- 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
*corr.:    The International Nonproprietary Name has been corrected. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data of the reference product, considers that 
there  is  a  favourable  benefit-risk  balance  for  Clopidogrel  Winthrop  and  therefore  recommends  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation.  
EMEA/CHMP/216044/2008 0.6, CURRENT 
Page 2/2 
 
