European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/399406/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
EVICEL 
Common Names: human fibrinogen and human thrombin 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Evicel 
consisting  of  two  components,  Human  Fibrinogen  50-90  mg/ml  and  Human  Thrombin  800-1200 
IU/ml, solutions for sealant intended for use as supportive treatment in surgery. The applicant for this 
medicinal product is Omrix Biopharmaceuticals S.A.. 
The  active  substances  of  Evicel,  a  local  haemostatic  medicinal  product  (ATC  code:  B02BC),  are 
Human  Fibrinogen  and  Human  Thrombin  purified  from  human  plasma.  The  reaction  of  fibrinogen 
with thrombin initiates the last phase of physiological blood coagulation. Fibrinogen is converted by 
thrombin  into  fibrin  monomers  which  spontaneously  polymerise  to  a  fibrin  clot.  The  fibrin  is  then 
cross  linked  by  endogenous  blood  clotting  factor  XIII,  creating  a  firm,  mechanically  stable  network 
with good adhesive properties. 
The benefits with Evicel have been demonstrated in terms of absence of bleedings at the target site in 
two randomised controlled clinical trials, one in haemostasis and suture support in patients undergoing 
vascular  surgery  compared  to  manual  compression  and  a  second  one  in  patients  undergoing 
retroperitoneal  and  intra-abdominal  surgery  compared  to  the  haemostatic  agent  Surgicel.  The  most 
common side effects in vascular surgery are graft infection and staphylococcal infection, haematoma, 
oedema  peripheral,  decreased  haemoglobin,  and  injury  or  procedural  complications  (incision  site 
haemorrhage, vascular graft occlusion, wound, post-procedural haematoma and post-operative wound 
complication).  In  retroperitoneal  and  intra-abdominal  surgery  the  most  common  side  effect  is 
abdominal abscess. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Evicel, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Evicel is used as supportive treatment in surgery where standard surgical 
techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis. Evicel is also indicated as suture support 
for haemostasis in vascular surgery”. It is proposed that the use of Evicel is restricted to experienced 
surgeons.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Evicel and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
