European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/270094/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
ZYLAGREN 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): clopidogrel  
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), having considered 
new information, adopted a positive opinion,∗∗∗ recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for 
the medicinal product Zylagren, 75 mg film-coated tablets intended for prevention of atherothrombotic 
events  in  patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction.  The  Applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto..  
The active substance of Zylagren is clopidogrel (as hydrogen sulphate), a platelet aggregation inhibitor 
excl.  heparin  medicinal  product  (B01AC04).  Zylagren  selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of  ADP  to  its 
platelet  receptor,  and  the  subsequent  ADP-mediated  activation  of  the  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby 
inhibiting platelet aggregation. Biotransformation of clopidogrel is necessary to produce inhibition of 
platelet aggregation. 
Zylagren is a generic of Plavix, which has been authorised in the EU since 15 July 1998. Studies have 
demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Zylagren, and its bioequivalence with Plavix. A question-and-
answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zylagren, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Clopidogrel is indicated in adults for the prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in: 
•  Patients  suffering  from  myocardial  infarction  (from  a  few  days  until  less  than  35  days), 
ischaemic  stroke  (from  7  days  until  less  than  6  months)  or  established  peripheral  arterial 
disease. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zylagren, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Zylagren  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion.  
∗∗ ∗   Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency 2005. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
