European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 January 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/34716/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
EFFENTORA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): fentanyl citrate 
On  24  January  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Effentora 
buccal tablet 100 μg, 200 μg, 400 μg, 600 μg and 800 μg intended for the treatment of breakthrough 
pain  (BTP)  in  adults  with  cancer  who  are  already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic 
cancer pain. The applicant for this medicinal product is Cephalon Europe. 
The active substance of Effentora is fentanyl citrate, a Phenylpiperidine derivatives medicinal product 
(N02AB03),  an  opioid  analgesic,  interacting  predominantly  with  the  opioid  µ-receptor.  Its  primary 
therapeutic actions are analgesia and sedation. 
The  benefits  with  Effentora  are  its  efficacy  in  the  treatment  of  breakthrough  pain  (BTP)  in  cancer 
patients under maintenance opioid therapy, due to a rapid trans-mucosal absorption of fentanyl after 
buccal  disintegration.  The  most  common  side  effects  are  nausea,  dizziness,  vomiting,  fatigue, 
headache, constipation, somnolence, anemia and peripheral edema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Effentora, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  Effentora  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  breakthrough  pain  (BTP)  in 
adults  with  cancer  who  are  already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain.  
It  is  proposed  that  Effentora  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  management  of opioid 
therapy in cancer patients.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Effentora  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
