European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/162956/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
QUTENZA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): capsaicin  
On 19 March 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Qutenza  179 
mg  cutaneous  patch  intended  for  the  treatment  of  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  in  non-diabetic  adults 
either alone or in combination with other medicinal products for pain. The applicant for this medicinal 
product is NeurogesX, Inc. 
The active substance of Qutenza is capsaicin, a medicinal product belonging to other local anaesthetics 
(ATC code: N01BX04). Capsaicin is a selective agonist of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 
receptors  (TRPV1).  Persistent  stimulation  of  the  TRPV1  receptors  leads  to  the  desensitisation  of 
sensory neurons responsible for pain transmission (nociceptors) resulting in pain relief. 
The benefits with Qutenza are its ability to reduce pain related to dysfunction or damage of neurons 
(neuropathic pain) after single 30-minute application to the feet in HIV-associated neuropathy (HIV-
AN)  and  single  60-minute  application  to  locations  other  than  feet  in  post-herpetic  neuralgia  (PHN). 
The  most  common  side  effects  are  transient  capsaicin-related  application  site  reactions  including 
burning, pain, erythema, pruritus. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Qutenza, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain in non-diabetic adults either 
alone  or  in  combination  with  other  medicinal  products  for  pain”.  It  is  proposed  that  Qutenza  is 
administered by a physician or by a health care professional under the supervision of a physician.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Qutenza and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
