European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/472051/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
JALRA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): vildagliptin 
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive opinion,** recommending to grant a  marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Jalra 
50 mg  tablets  intended  for  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal 
product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Jalra  is  vildagliptin,  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase  4  (DPP-4)  inhibitors  medicinal 
product (A10BH02). DPP-4 inhibition reduces the cleavage and inactivation of the active (intact) form 
of  the  incretin  hormones,  including  GLP-1  (glucagon-like  peptide  1)  and  GIP  (glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic polypeptide), producing an elevation of incretin concentrations that lead to enhancement 
of  glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in  glucagon  release,  thus  contributing  to  the 
maintenance of glucose homeostasis. 
The benefits with Jalra in combination therapy with metformin, a sulphonylurea or a thiazolidinedione 
are clinically relevant as Jalra induces significant reductions of HbA1c and FPG compared to placebo. 
Jalra treatment is largely lipid and weight neutral in combination with metformin or a sulphonylurea. 
The  most  common  side  effects  when  taking  Jalra  with  metformin  are  tremor,  headache,  dizziness, 
nausea  and  hypoglycaemia.  When  taking  Jalra  with  a  sulphonylurea,  they  are  tremor,  headache, 
dizziness,  asthenia  and  hypoglycaemia.  When  taking  Jalra  with  a  thiazolidinedione,  they  are  weight 
increase, peripheral oedema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Jalra, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is:  
Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as dual oral therapy in combination with: 
•  metformin, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose of 
• 
• 
monotherapy with metformin, 
a sulphonylurea, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control despite maximal tolerated dose 
of  a  sulphonylurea  and  for  whom  metformin  is  inappropriate  due  to  contraindications  or 
intolerance,  
a thiazolidinedione, in patients with insufficient glycaemic control and for whom the use of a 
thiazolidinedione is appropriate. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data of the reference product Galvus, considers 
that there is a favourable benefit-risk balance for Jalra and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation.  
Page 2/2 
 
