European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 18 December 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/667162/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
FIRMAGON 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): degarelix (as acetate) 
On  18  December  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Firmagon, 80 mg and 120 mg, powder and solvent for solution for injection, intended for the treatment 
of prostate cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Ferring Pharmaceuticals A/S. 
The active substance of Firmagon is degarelix, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonist 
medicinal product (ATC code: L02BX02). Degarelix binds to receptors in the anterior pituitary gland 
and this results in a decreased secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone and 
subsequently decreased production of the steroid hormone testosterone, which is necessary for growth 
and spread of prostate cancer cells. 
The  benefits  with  Firmagon  are  its  achievement  and  maintenance  of  very  low  levels  of  testosterone 
(≤ 0.5  ng/ml)  throughout  the  12-month  treatment  period  without  an  initial  surge  in  testosterone,  as 
observed  in  a  randomised  clinical  trial  comparing  two  different  degarelix  dosing  regimens  to 
leuprorelin in patients with prostate cancer requiring androgen deprivation therapy. The most common 
side  effects  are  hot  flushes,  injection  site  pain,  injection  site  erythema,  increased  weight, 
nasopharyngitis, fatigue, and back pain.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Firmagon, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Firmagon  is  a  gonadotrophin  releasing  hormone  (GnRH)  antagonist 
indicated for treatment of adult male patients with advanced hormone-dependent prostate cancer”. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Firmagon  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
