European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/398691/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CEPLENE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): histamine dihydrochloride 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Ceplene, 
0.5 mg/0.5 ml,  solution  for  injection,  intended  for  the  maintenance  therapy  of  acute  myeloid 
leukaemia. Ceplene was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 11 April 2005. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is EpiCept GmbH. 
The active substance of Ceplene is histamine dihydrochloride a cytokine  immunomodulator medicinal 
product  (ATC  Code  L03AX14)  which  aims  to  induce  immune-mediated  destruction  of  residual 
myeloid leukaemic cells and thereby to prevent relapse of leukaemia in patients concomitantly treated 
with interleukin-2. 
The benefits with Ceplene maintenance therapy used concomitantly with IL-2 in patients with acute 
myeloid  leukaemia  in  first  remission  compared  to  no  maintenance  therapy  are  its  effect  in  terms  of 
leukaemia-free survival as observed in a randomised controlled trial. The most common side effects 
observed  with  maintenance  therapy  with  Ceplene  concomitantly  with  interleukin-2  were  flushing, 
headache, fatigue, injection site granuloma, pyrexia and injection site erythema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ceplene, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Ceplene  maintenance  therapy  is  indicated  for  adult  patients  with  acute 
myeloid leukaemia in first remission concomitantly treated with IL-2. The efficacy of Ceplene has not 
been fully demonstrated in patients older than age 60”. 
It is proposed that Ceplene be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management of acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ceplene and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances. ** 
* 
**  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances refers to the fact that in exceptional 
circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 8613 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
