European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 July 2008 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/376249/2008  
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
OLANZAPINE MYLAN  
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): olanzapine 
On 24 July 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion∗∗,  recommending  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Olanzapine Mylan 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg film-coated tablets intended for the 
treatment of schizophrenia. The applicant for this medicinal product is Generics (UK) Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Olanzapine  Mylan  is  olanzapine  which  is  an  atypical  antipsychotic 
(N05AH03). 
Olanzapine Mylan is a generic of Zyprexa, which has been authorised in the EU since 27 September 
1996. Studies have demonstrated the satisfactory quality of Olanzapine Mylan, and its bioequivalence 
with Zyprexa. A question-and-answer document on generic medicines can be found here. 
The approved indication is: “Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Olanzapine is 
effective  in  maintaining  the  clinical  improvement  during  continuation  therapy  in  patients  who  have 
shown an initial treatment response. Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe 
manic episode. In patients whose manic episode has responded to olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is 
indicated for the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder”. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The CHMP, on the basis of the data submitted, considers that there is a favourable benefit risk balance 
for Olanzapine Mylan, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
∗  
∗∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in writing of their 
intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
