European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 21 February 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/31425/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VOLIBRIS 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): ambrisentan  
On  21  February  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Volibris,  5  mg  and  10  mg,  Film  coated  tablets  intended  for  treatment  of  pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension. Volibris was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 11 April 2005. The applicant 
for this medicinal product is Glaxo Group Limited. 
The active substance of Volibris is ambrisentan, an anti-hypertensives medicinal product (C02KX02). 
Ambrisentan  is  an  endothelin  receptor  antagonist  (ERA)  that  is  selective  for  the  endothelin  type  A 
(ETA)  receptor.  ETA  receptor  antagonists  inhibit  phospholipase  C-mediated  vasoconstriction  and 
protein  kinase  C-mediated  cell  proliferation,  while  preserving  nitric  oxide  (NO)  and  prostacyclin 
production,  cyclic  GMP-  and  cyclic  AMP-mediated  vasodilation,  and  endothelin-1  (ET-1)  clearance 
that is associated with the endothelin type B (ETB) receptor. 
The  benefits  with  Volibris  are  efficacy  in  improving  exercise  capacity  in  patients  with  idiopathic 
pulmonary  arterial  hypertension  (PAH)  classified  as  WHO  functional  class  II  and  III,  and  pulmonary 
arterial  hypertension  associated  with  connective  tissue  disease.  The  most  common  side  effects  are 
headache, flushing, nasal symptoms (especially congestion) and peripheral oedema. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Volibris, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Volibris  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  pulmonary  arterial 
hypertension (PAH) classified as WHO functional class II and III, to improve exercise capacity (see section 
5.1).  Efficacy  has  been  shown  in  idiopathic  PAH  (IPAH)  and  in  PAH  associated  with  connective  tissue 
disease”.  It  is  proposed  that  Volibris  is  prescribed  by  physicians  experienced  in  the  treatment  of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Volibris and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation.  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
