European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/391766/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
CAYSTON 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): aztreonam  
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  conditional  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Cayston,  powder  and  solvent  for  nebuliser  solution,  75  mg,  intended  for  suppressive  therapy  of 
chronic pulmonary infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 
18 years  and  older.  Cayston  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  on  21  June  2004.  The 
applicant for this medicinal product is Gilead Sciences International Ltd. 
The  active  substance  of  Cayston  is  aztreonam,  an  antibacterial  medicinal  product  for  inhalation  use 
only  (ATC  code:  J01DF01).  Aztreonam  binds  to  penicillin-binding  proteins  of  susceptible  bacteria, 
including  P.  aeruginosa,  which  leads  to  inhibition  of  bacterial  cell  wall  synthesis,  followed  by  cell 
lysis.  The  benefits  with  Cayston,  based  on  a  28-day  three  times  daily  course  of  treatment,  are  its 
clinically  relevant  improvement  of  pulmonary  function  in  adult  patients  with  cystic  fibrosis  (CF) 
suffering from chronic pulmonary infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  The most common side 
effects are wheezing, cough, non-allergic bronchospasm, rash and pyrexia.   
A pharmacovigilance plan for Cayston, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Cayston  is  indicated  for  the  suppressive  therapy  of  chronic  pulmonary 
infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 18 years and older. 
The  primary  support  for  this  indication  is  based  on  two  single  28  day  course  placebo-controlled 
studies.    The  data  to  support  the  sustainability  of  the  observed  short  term  benefit  over  subsequent 
courses of treatment are limited (see section 5.1). Consideration should be given to official guidance 
on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.”  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Cayston and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. The marketing authorisation is conditional***. 
* 
** 
*** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
A conditional marketing authorisation is granted to a medicinal product that fulfils an unmet medical 
need when the benefit to public health of immediate availability outweighs the risk inherent in the fact 
that additional data are still required. The marketing authorisation holder is likely to provide 
comprehensive clinical data at a later stage. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
