European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 29 April 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/216688/2008-corr 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
VELMETIA 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): sitagliptin / metformin hydrochloride  
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Velmetia,  50 
mg/850 mg and 50mg/1000 mg film-coated tablet intended for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Merck Sharp & Dohme Ltd. 
The active substances of Velmetia (A10BD07), a combination product of oral blood glucose-lowering 
drugs,  are  sitagliptin  and  metformin  hydrochloride.  Sitagliptin  is  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase-4  (DPP-4) 
inhibitor.  DPP-4  inhibition  reduces  the  cleavage  and  inactivation  of  the  active  (intact)  form  of  the 
incretin  hormones,  including  GLP-1  (glucagon-like  peptide  1)  and  GIP  (glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic  polypeptide).  This  way  active  incretin  concentrations  are  elevated  and  that  leads  to 
enhancement  of  glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in  glucagon  release,  thus 
contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  glucose  homeostasis.  Metformin  is  a  biguanide  and  has  an 
antihyperglycaemic effect, lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose concentrations. It is 
thought  to  act  via  various  mechanisms,  including  decreasing  hepatic  glucose  production,  decreasing 
intestinal  absorption  of  glucose,  and  improving  insulin  sensitivity  by  increasing  peripheral  glucose 
uptake  and  utilisation.  Velmetia  combines  these  two  antidiabetic  agents  with  complementary 
mechanisms of action. 
The benefits with Velmetia are its clinically relevant and significant reduction of blood glucose levels 
in  patients  inadequately  controlled  by  metformin  alone,  although  non-inferior  efficacy  versus  the 
addition  of  glipizide  was  not  proven,  a  clinically  relevant  improvement  of  glycaemic  control  when 
added to a SU agent, and a presumed improvement of compliance by use of two antidiabetic agents in 
one tablet to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. The effect on body weight is 
similar  to  that  of  metformin  alone.  The  most  common  side  effect  when  taking  Velmetia  is  nausea. 
When sitagliptin is taken as monotherapy side effects in excess (0.2% of patients and >1 patient) of that in 
patients receiving placebo are headache, hypoglycaemia, constipation, and dizziness. Furthermore, the 
following adverse reactions for the metformin component are known: gastrointestinal symptoms such 
as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, and metallic taste. When Velmetia is 
taken in combination with a sulphonylurea, common side effects are hypoglycaemia and constipation. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Velmetia, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
*corr.:   The International Nonproprietary Name has been corrected. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
Velmetia  is  indicated  as  an  adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  patients 
inadequately  controlled  on  metformin  alone  or  those  already  being  treated  with  the  combination  of 
sitagliptin and metformin. 
Velmetia is also indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as an 
adjunct  to  diet  and  exercise  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  on  their  maximal  tolerated  dose  of 
metformin and a sulphonylurea.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Velmetia  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation.  
EMEA/CHMP/216688/2008 0.7, CURRENT 
Page 2/2 
 
