European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 September 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/603846/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
Zutectra  
Common name: human hepatitis B immunoglobulin 
On  24  September  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Zutectra,  500  IU,  Solution  for  injection,  intended  for  the  prevention  of  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  re-
infection in HBV-DNA negative patients more than 6 months after liver transplantation for hepatitis B 
induced liver failure. The applicant for this medicinal product is Biotest Pharma GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Zutectra  is  human  hepatitis  B  immunoglobulin,  a  specific  immunoglobulin 
medicinal  product  (J06BB04).  The  mechanism  of  action  of  hepatitis  B  immunoglobulin  is  a  passive 
immunisation against infection with the hepatitis B virus.  
The benefits with Zutectra are its ability to maintain anti-HBs serum levels in line with those required 
for  hepatitis  B  immunoglobulin  preparations  (> 100 IU/l).  This  was  demonstrated  in  a  study 
monitoring  trough  levels  of  anti-HBs  in  23  stable  HBsAg-negative,  HBV  DNA-negative  liver 
transplant  patients.  In  addition,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  was  characterised.  The  product  is  for 
subcutaneous  use  and  allows  for  self-administration  which  is  considered  a  convenient  and  feasible 
alternative provided appropriate training is given, initial supervision is in place and monitoring of anti 
HBsAg levels is carried out regularly. The most common side effects are injection site reactions (pain, 
urticaria,  haematoma)  as  well  as  unspecific  hypersensitivity  reactions  such  as  headache  and  upper 
abdominal pain. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zutectra, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Prevention  of  hepatitis  B  virus  (HBV)  re-infection  in  HBV-DNA 
negative  patients  more  than 6 months  after  liver  transplantation  for  hepatitis  B  induced  liver  failure. 
Zutectra  is  indicated  in  adults  only.  The  concomitant  use  of  adequate  virostatic  agents  should  be 
considered, if appropriate, as standard of hepatitis B re-infection prophylaxis.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Zutectra and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
