European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 22 January 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/13120/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION * 
for  
SYNFLORIX 
Common Name: pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) 
On  22  January  2009  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion, **  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Synflorix, suspension for injection, intended for the “active immunisation against invasive disease and 
acute otitis media caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks up to 2 
years of age”.  
The applicant for this medicinal product is GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. 
The  active  substances  in  the  10-valent  vaccine  Synflorix  included  the  Streptococcus  pneumoniae 
polysaccharide  serotypes  1,  4,  5,  6B,  7F,  9V,  14,  18C,  19F  and  23F  each  conjugated  to  a  carrier 
protein (Pneumococcal vaccine, J07AL52), which act by developing an immune response protecting 
against the above-mentioned diseases.   
The benefits with Synflorix are its capability to prevent invasive disease and acute otitis media caused 
by  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  in  infants  and  children.  The  most  common  side  effects  after  primary 
vaccination are redness at the injection side and irritability.  
A pharmacovigilance plan for Synflorix, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Active  immunisation  against  invasive  disease  and  acute  otitis  media 
caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in infants and children from 6 weeks up to 2 years of age. See 
sections 4.4 and 5.1 for information on protection against specific pneumococcal serotypes. The use of 
Synflorix should be determined on the basis of official recommendations taking into consideration the 
impact of invasive disease in different age groups as well as the variability of serotype epidemiology 
in different geographical areas.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Synflorix  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
