European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/198599/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
RELISTOR 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): methylnaltrexone bromide 
On 24 April 2008 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product  Relistor, 
12mg/0.6 ml (20mg/ml), solution for injection intended for treatment of opioid-induced constipation in 
advanced illness patients who are receiving palliative care when response to usual laxative therapy has 
not been sufficient. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Wyeth Europa Limited. 
The  active  substance  of  Relistor  is  methylnaltrexone  bromide,  a  quaternary  derivative  of  the  well 
known  µ-opioid  antagonist,  naltrexone (ATC  Code  not  yet  assigned).  Whereas  naltrexone  is  used  to 
counteract  the  CNS  related  effects  of  opioid  treatment  (and  overdose),  Relistor  was  designed  to 
potentially  block  the  undesired  peripheral  side  effects  of  opioids  without  interfering  the  central 
analgesic  effects.  Relistor  acts  as  an  antagonist  preferentially  at  the  µ-opioid  receptor  (Ki=28  nM), 
exhibits  less  potency  at  the  k-receptor  and  shows  no  action  at  the  δ-opioid  receptor  or  at  any  other 
receptor investigated in a broad screen. The methylation in Relistor causes greater polarity and lower 
lipid solubility of the molecule, and hence, Relistor is restricted from crossing the blood-brain barrier 
in animals and in humans at clinically relevant doses. Relistor is intended for application via the s.c. 
route only. 
The benefits with Relistor are its clear superiority over placebo in the induction of prompt laxation in 
patients  that  are  already  treated  with  laxatives  for  opioid  induced  constipation  and  have  ongoing 
difficulties with defecation. Laxation within 4 hours after the first dose of study drug was observed in 
48.4% (CI = 35.9-60.8) of patients in the Relistor group versus 15.5% (CI = 7.1-23.9) of patients in 
the  placebo  group.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  ≥  2  laxations  within  4  hours  after  dose 
administration over the first 4 doses was 51.6% (CI = 39.2-64.1) in the Relistor group and 8.5% (CI = 
2.0-14.9)  in  the  placebo  group.  In  addition,  there  was  some  indication  that  the  compound  relieves 
defecation  complaints  and  improves  stool  consistency  over  the  short  term  in  the  more  severely 
affected patients, leading to an overall patient satisfaction that is clearly distinct from placebo. 
Adverse events that were reported in the methylnaltrexone group at a higher rate than in the placebo 
group  were  within  the  system  organ  classes  ‘Gastrointestinal  disorders’  and  ‘Nervous  system 
disorders’ i.e. abdominal pain, flatulence, diarrhoea, nausea, and dizziness. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants  may  request  a  re-examination  of  any  CHMP  opinion,  provided  they  notify  the  EMEA  in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Relistor as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of the 
marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “Treatment  of  opioid-induced  constipation  in  advanced  illness  patients 
who are receiving palliative care when response to usual laxative therapy has not been sufficient.”  
Relistor will be available by prescription only. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Relistor and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
