European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 June 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/362870/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
SIMPONI 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): golimumab 
On 25 June 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,** recommending to grant a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Simponi 50 mg 
solution  for  injection  in  a  pre-filled  pen  and  Simponi  50  mg  solution  for  injection  in  a  pre-filled 
syringe  intended  for  the  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis  (RA),  psoriatic  arthritis  (PsA)  and 
ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS)  in  adult  patients.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Centocor 
B.V. 
The active substance of Simponi is golimumab, a tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitor (ATC 
Code  L04AB06).  Golimumab  is  a  human  immunoglobulin  G1κ  (IgG1κ)  monoclonal  antibody  that 
binds with high affinity and specificity to both soluble and transmembrane forms of TNF-α, thereby 
neutralizing the biological activity of TNF-α. Abnormally high levels of TNF-α have been implicated 
in the pathophysiology of several immune-mediated diseases, including RA, PsA, and AS. 
The benefits with Simponi are its improvement of signs and symptoms of patients with moderate to 
severe, active RA and those with active and progressive PsA who had inadequate response to previous 
DMARD  therapy.  Simponi  also  improves  symptoms  in  patients  with  severe,  active  AS.  The  most 
common side effects are bacterial or viral infections, as well as general disorders and administration 
site  conditions  (e.g.  pain,  pyrexia).  Main  identified  or  potential  risks  include  (serious)  infections 
including 
failure, 
hypertension,  demyelinating  disorders,  hepatotoxicity,  serious  systemic  hypersensitivity  and 
autoimmune processes. 
infections,  malignancy,  congestive  heart 
tuberculosis  and  opportunistic 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Simponi, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indications are:  
“Rheumatoid arthritis (RA): Simponi, in combination with methotrexate (MTX), is indicated for the 
treatment  of  moderate  to  severe,  active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to 
disease  modifying  anti  rheumatic  drug  (DMARD)  therapy  including  MTX  has  been  inadequate. 
Simponi has also been shown to improve physical function in this patient population.  
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA): Simponi, alone or in combination with MTX, is indicated for the treatment of 
active  and  progressive  psoriatic  arthritis  in  adult  patients  when  the  response  to  previous  disease 
modifying anti rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate. Simponi has also been shown 
to improve physical function in this patient population. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ankylosing  spondylitis  (AS):  Simponi  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  severe,  active  ankylosing 
spondylitis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.” 
It is proposed that Simponi treatment is initiated and supervised by qualified physicians experienced in 
the  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  rheumatoid  arthritis,  psoriatic  arthritis  or  ankylosing  spondylitis. 
Patients treated with Simponi should be given the Patient Alert Card.  
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Simponi  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
