European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 18 December 2008 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/662316/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
IXIARO 
Common Name: Japanese Encephalitis vaccine, inactivated, adsorbed 
On  18  December  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
IXIARO, containing a target total protein amount of 6µg per 0.5 ml adsorbed to aluminium hydroxide, 
suspension  for  injection,  intended  for  active  immunisation  against  Japanese  encephalitis  for  persons 
aged 18 years and older. IXIARO was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 24 January 2006. 
The applicant for this medicinal product is Intercell AG. 
The  active  substance  of  IXIARO  is  Japanese  encephalitis  virus  (attenuated  strain  SA14-14-2 
(inactivated)  produced in Vero cells), an Encephalitis Virus vaccines (J07BA02). The vaccine induces 
the  generation  of  neutralizing  antibodies  that  have  been  implicated  in  conferring  protection  against 
Japanese encephalitis.   
The  benefits  with  IXIARO  are  its  protection  against  Japanese  encephalitis.  The  most  common  side 
effects are headache and myalgia usually occurring in the first three days after vaccination. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for IXIARO, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The  approved  indication  is:  “IXIARO  is  indicated  for  active  immunization  against  Japanese 
encephalitis  for  adults.  IXIARO  should  be  considered  for  use  in  individuals  at  risk  of  exposure 
through travel or in the course of their occupation.” 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  IXIARO  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
