European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 September 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/472210/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ZOMARIST 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
On  25  September  2008  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  adopted  a 
positive  opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Zomarist  50  mg/850  mg  and  50  mg/1000  mg,  film-coated  tablet  intended  for  treatment  of  type  2 
diabetes mellitus. The applicant for this medicinal product is Novartis Europharm Ltd. 
The active substance of Zomarist is vildagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, a combination of oral 
blood glucose lowering drugs (A10BD08). Vildagliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. 
DPP-4  inhibition  reduces  the  cleavage  and  inactivation  of  the  active  (intact)  form  of  the  incretin 
hormones,  including  GLP-1  (glucagon-like  peptide  1)  and  GIP  (glucose-dependent  insulinotropic 
polypeptide), producing an elevation of incretin concentrations that lead to enhancement of glucose-
dependent insulin secretion and a reduction in glucagon release, thus contributing to the maintenance 
of glucose homeostasis. Metformin is a biguanide and has an antihyperglycaemic effect. It is thought 
to  act  via  various  mechanisms,  including  inhibition  of  gluconeogenesis  in  the  liver,  a  delay  in 
intestinal glucose absorption, and an increase in insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake in some target 
tissues. Zomarist combines these two antidiabetic agents with complementary mechanisms of action. 
The  benefits  with  Zomarist  include  a  clinically  relevant  and  significant  reduction  of  blood  glucose 
levels compared to placebo, a neutral effect on weight, and a presumed improvement of compliance by 
use of two antidiabetic agents in one tablet. The most common side effects when taking Zomarist are 
tremor, headache, dizziness, nausea and hypoglycaemia. When vildagliptin is used as monotherapy the 
reactions  are  observed:  dizziness,  headache,  constipation,  arthralgia, 
following  adverse 
hypoglycaemia,  upper 
infection,  nasopharyngitis  and  peripheral  oedema. 
Furthermore,  the  following  adverse  reactions  for  metformin  are  known:  decrease  of  vitamin  B12 
absorption and lactic acidosis, metallic taste, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of 
appetite,  liver  function  test  abnormalities  or  hepatitis  and  skin  reactions  as  erythema,  pruritus  and 
urticaria. 
respiratory 
tract 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Zomarist, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: “Zomarist is indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients 
who  are  unable  to  achieve  sufficient  glycaemic  control  at  their  maximally  tolerated  dose  of  oral 
metformin  alone  or  who  are  already  treated  with  the  combination  of  vildagliptin  and  metformin  as 
separate tablets.”  
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  of  the  reference  product  Eucreas, 
considers  that  there  is  a  favourable  benefit-risk  balance  for  Zomarist  and  therefore  recommends  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 2/2 
 
