European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 March 2009 
Doc.Ref. EMEA/CHMP/167750/2009 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION* 
for  
ELLAONE 
International Nonproprietary Name (INN): ulipristal acetate 
On 19 March 2009 the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive 
opinion,**  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product:  Ellaone,  30 
mg  ,  tablets  intended  for  emergency  contraception  within  120 hours  (5 days)  of  unprotected  sexual 
intercourse  or  contraceptive  failure.  The  applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is  Laboratoire  HRA 
Pharma. 
The  active  substance  of  Ellaone  is  ulipristal  acetate,  an  synthetic  selective  progesterone  receptor 
modulator with antagonistic and partial agonistic effects at the progesterone receptor (ATC Code not 
yet  assigned).  Ulipristal  acetate  prevents  progesterone  from  occupying  its  receptor,  thus  the  gene 
transcription normally turned on by progesterone is blocked, and the proteins necessary to begin and 
maintain pregnancy are not synthesized. 
The benefits with Ellaone are its ability to prevent a pregnancy if used within 120 hours of unprotected 
intercourse. The most common side effects are Abdominal pain, menstrual disorders, nausea and 
headache. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ellaone, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part of 
the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indication is: emergency contraception within 120 hours (5 days) of unprotected sexual 
intercourse or contraceptive failure. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable benefit to risk balance for Ellaone, and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
* 
** 
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will 
normally be issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion. 
Applicants may request a re-examination of any CHMP opinion, provided they notify the EMEA in 
writing of their intention to request a re-examination within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
