19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/566874/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Competact 
International non-proprietary name: pioglitazone / metformin 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000655/PSUV/0043 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 August 2012 – 31 January 2013 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSURs for Actos, Glustin, Competact, 
Tandemact and Glubrava, the scientific conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
PRAC considered that the product information should be updated to reflect that some of the 
observational studies have also shown an increased risk of fractures in men.  While this is not a 
consistent finding in these studies, it may be that the inconsistency relates to a difference in baseline 
bone density, rather than a gender specific risk. Furthermore no clear mechanism for gender specific 
differences has been confirmed. 
The fluid retentive effects of both pioglitazone and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory class of 
medicines are well established.  PRAC considered that the prescriber should take this into account 
when prescribing such agents and, consistent with the post-marketing cases of cardiac failure and 
peripheral oedema reported with pioglitazone with concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAID/COXIBs), the product information should be updated accordingly. 
A benefit-risk analysis of pioglitazone in elderly patients using insulin was provided as part of the 
PSUR.  Overall it was found that the risk of heart failure is increased in elderly patients and increased 
in those using insulin.  According to the recent Drug Utilisation Studies use with insulin has been 
decreasing over the last number of years and represents a small proportion of pioglitazone users, 
perhaps reflecting increasing awareness of the increased risk of heart failure in this population. It is 
considered that the current risk minimisation activities, both routine (product information) and 
additional (educational materials) are adequate and the benefit-risk remains positive in this population. 
The PRAC was of the view that the product information should be updated  to inform about the 
incidence of heart failure in patients ≥ 65 years receiving insulin concomitantly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Actos, Glustin, Competact, Tandemact and Glubrava the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing the active 
substance pioglitazone is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
Competact  
EMA/CHMP/566874/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
