EMA/219822/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000655 
EPAR summary for the public 
Competact 
Pioglitazone / metformin hydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Competact. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Competact. 
What is Competact? 
Competact is a medicine that is available as tablets containing two active substances, pioglitazone 
(15 mg) and metformin hydrochloride (850 mg). 
What is Competact used for? 
Competact is used in adults (particularly those who are overweight) who have type 2 diabetes. 
Competact is used in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin (a diabetes medicine) 
used on its own and at the maximum possible dose.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Competact used? 
The usual dose of Competact is one tablet taken twice a day. Patients changing from metformin only to 
Competact may need to slowly introduce pioglitazone until a dose of 30 mg per day is reached. It is 
possible to change to Competact directly from metformin if appropriate. Taking Competact with or just 
after food may reduce any stomach problems caused by metformin. Elderly patients should have their 
kidney function monitored regularly. 
Treatment with Competact should be reviewed after three to six months, and discontinued in patients 
who are not deriving sufficient benefit. At subsequent reviews, prescribers should confirm that benefits 
to patients are maintained.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Competact work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Competact contains two 
active substances which each have a different mode of action. Pioglitazone makes cells (fat, muscle 
and liver) more sensitive to insulin, which means that the body makes better use of the insulin it 
produces. Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the 
gut. As a result of the action of both active substances, the blood glucose is reduced and this helps to 
control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Competact been studied? 
Pioglitazone on its own has been approved in the EU under the name Actos and can be used with 
metformin in type 2 diabetes patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. Three 
studies of Actos used with metformin as separate tablets were used to support the use of Competact in 
the same indication. The studies lasted from 4 months to 2 years and involved 1,305 patients who took 
the combination. They measured the level in the blood of a substance (HbA1c), which gives an 
indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Competact shown during the studies? 
In all studies, adding pioglitazone 30 mg to metformin led to an improvement in the control of blood 
glucose, with levels of HbA1c further decreasing by 0.64 to 0.89% compared with the levels on 
metformin alone. 
What is the risk associated with Competact? 
At the start of treatment, abdominal pain (stomach ache), diarrhoea, loss of appetite, nausea (feeling 
sick) and vomiting may occur. These side effects are very common but disappear on their own in most 
cases. Lactic acidosis (a build-up of lactic acid in the body) is a side effect which may occur in less than 
1 in 10,000 patients. Other side effects such as bone fracture, increased weight and oedema (swelling) 
may occur in less than 1 in 10 patients. For the full list of side effects reported with Competact, see the 
package leaflet.  
Competact must not be used in patients who have heart failure, or problems with their liver or their 
kidneys. Competact must not be used in patients who have a disease that causes lack of oxygen to the 
tissues such as a recent heart attack or shock. Competact must not be used where there is alcohol 
intoxication, diabetic ketoacidosis (high levels of ketones), conditions that may effects the kidneys, and 
during breast-feeding. It must also not be used in patients who have or have had bladder cancer or 
those with blood in the urine that has not yet been investigated. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why has Competact been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that the effectiveness of pioglitazone and metformin in type 2 diabetes had been 
shown, and that Competact simplifies treatment and improves compliance when a combination of the 
active substances is required. The Committee decided that Competact’s benefits are greater than its 
risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Competact  
EMA/219822/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Competact? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Competact is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Competact, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Competact will produce educational materials for doctors 
prescribing the medicine, which will cover the possible risk of heart failure and bladder cancer with 
treatments that contain pioglitazone, the criteria for selecting patients and the need to review 
treatment regularly and stop treatment if patients are no longer benefiting.  
Other information about Competact 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Competact on 28 July 2006. 
The full EPAR for Competact can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Competact, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016. 
Competact  
EMA/219822/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
