SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Type  2  diabetes  mellitus  is  a  heterogeneous  disorder  characterised  by  multiple  defects  in  the 
pancreatic  β-cell,  liver,  and  peripheral  tissues  such  as  skeletal  muscle  and  adipose  tissue.  There  is 
considerable  debate  about  the  primacy  of  insulin  resistance  or  beta  cell  failure  in  the  disorder.  It  is 
well  documented  that  three  major  metabolic  abnormalities  contribute  to  the  development  of 
hyperglycaemia  in  type  2  diabetes  mellitus,  including  impaired  insulin  secretion  in  response  to 
glucose, increased hepatic glucose production, and decreased insulin-dependent glucose uptake in the 
peripheral tissues. The latter two abnormalities are defined as insulin resistance. Insulin resistance is 
reversed by enhancing the action of insulin, thereby promoting glucose utilisation in peripheral tissues, 
suppressing  gluconeogenesis  in  the  liver,  and  reducing  lipolysis  at  the  adipocyte.  Insulin  resistance 
appears in early stages of the disease. It is a major factor in the progression of the disease, contributing 
to  beta  cell  exhaustion  due  to  demands  on  insulin  secretion.  The  prolonged  hyperglycaemia,  which 
results from the metabolic defects causes microvascular and macrovascular damage, which is a cause 
of considerable morbidity and mortality. 
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Europeans is at least 2-3 % and increases substantially in those 
older  than  70  years.  Microvascular  (retinopathy,  nephropathy  and  neuropathy)  and  macrovascular 
complications  (e.g.,  ischemic  heart  disease)  of  diabetes  are  common.  Microvascular  complications 
appear  to  be  related  to  hyperglycaemia.  Macrovascular  complications  are  more  related  to 
dyslipidaemia and blood pressure control. The main goal of treatment for type 2 diabetes is to prevent 
acute and chronic complications, through better control of blood glucose levels and the management 
of macrovascular risk factors associated to diabetes (dyslipidaemia, blood pressure control and central 
obesity). The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and UK Prospective Diabetes Study 
(UKPDS)  demonstrated  that  HbA1c  must  be  reduced  to  <7%  to  minimise  the  development  of 
microvascular  complications.  Diet  and  exercise  are  the  cornerstones  of  treatment  in  order  to  correct 
obesity and hyperglycaemia. However, 40 to 60 % of newly treated patients do not respond adequately 
or fail to comply with diet. Available drug treatments are: 
•  Sulphonylureas  (SU),  which  increase  insulin  secretion.  Their  main  adverse  effects  are 
hypoglycaemia and weight gain. 
•  Metformin  (Met),  which  increases  intestinal  glucose  utilisation,  decreases  hepatic  glucose 
production  and  increases  insulin  sensitivity.  Metformin  may  also  improve  dyslipidaemia. 
Gastrointestinal  undesirable  effects  (e.g.,  diarrhoea  in  about  15%  of  patients)  and  lactic 
acidosis represent the main adverse effects. 
•  Thiazolidinediones  (TZDs),  such  as  pioglitazone,  which  increase  insulin  sensitivity  and 
enhance glucose uptake in skeletal muscle. 
•  Alpha-glucosidase  inhibitors,  which  have  shown  limited  efficacy  but  with  no  risk  of 
• 
hypoglycaemia. Gastrointestinal undesirable effects limit compliance. 
Insulin,  which  is  used  in  type  2  diabetes  when  oral  agents  have  failed  to  achieve  glycaemic 
control or in case of complications. Insulin may cause hypoglycaemia and weight gain. 
The published UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) compared intensive care therapy to standard 
care therapy in a population of 4000 adults over a 9-year period (1977-1997). Results showed a 3-5 % 
rate of  all diabetes-related events per year. Intensive therapy for glycaemia and tight blood pressure 
control  has  the  potential  to  reduce  the  incidence  of  microvascular  complications.  In  addition,  other 
cardiovascular risk factors including hyperlipidaemia should also be treated. Intensive therapy in the 
UKPDS  produced  a  non-significant  15  %  decrease  in  macrovascular  disease.  Decreasing  glycated 
haemoglobin  (HbA1C)  by  0.7  %  or  achieving  fasting  plasma  glucose  ≤  6  mmol/l  was  found  to  be 
crucial and the various agents used had similar efficacy (UKPDS). All treatment groups shared similar 
outcomes  with  the  exception  of  the  metformin-treated  group:  Mortality  from  all  causes  and  from 
cardiovascular causes was reduced only in the metformin-treated group with intensive plasma glucose 
control. 
Within  3 years  of  onset  of  type  2  diabetes,  approximately  50%  of  patients  require  multiple  therapy, 
and after nine years this number increases to 75%. Current guidelines recommend the addition of SU 
©EMEA 2006 
1/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as  first  line  combination  with  metformin  but  there  is  evidence  that  clinicians  are  adopting 
thiazolidinediones as the second treatment to add to metformin (before SU) in an attempt to preserve 
pancreatic function.  
Compliance with treatment is an important factor in achieving glycaemic control. The combination of 
two  different  classes  of  antihyperglycaemic  agents  in  a  single  tablet  can  simplify  the  treatment  and 
serve to improve compliance. 
Currently,  SU-metformin  FDC  are  not  available  on  the  European  market.  In  October  2003,  a  fixed 
dose combination of rosiglitazone-metformin was approved through the centralised procedure with the 
indication  “Treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  patients,  particularly  overweight  patients,  who  are 
unable  to  achieve  sufficient  glycaemic  control  at  their  maximally  tolerated  dose  of  oral  metformin 
alone”. 
This  application  was  for  a  fixed  dose  combination  product,  Competact,  containing  two  authorized 
ingredients, pioglitazone hydrochloride and metformin hydrochloride.  
Pioglitazone (as hydrochloride) (Actos; Glustin) was originally authorized in the European Union in 
October 2000 at doses of 15 or 30 mg once daily for: 
“oral  combination  treatment  in  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  patients  with  insufficient  glycaemic  control 
despite maximal tolerated dose of oral monotherapy with either metformin or sulphonylurea:  
- in combination with metformin particularly in overweight patients 
-  in  combination  with  a  SU  only  in  patients  who  show  intolerance  to  metformin  or  for  whom 
metformin is contraindicated.” 
In  2002,  new  data  were  submitted  in  a  type  II  variation  and  pioglitazone  was  approved  for  “oral 
monotherapy  in  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  patients,  particularly  overweight  patients,  inadequately 
controlled by diet and exercise for whom metformin is inappropriate because of contraindications or 
intolerance.”  In a subsequent type II variation, the approved maximum daily dose was increased to 45 
mg.  At  this  time,  the  application  for  an  unrestricted  combination  therapy  (i.e.  deleting  current 
qualifying conditions for its use in combination with metformin or SU) was rejected by the CHMP. 
Metformin was originally granted national authorisations in the EU from 1959 to 1997. Following a 
referral  to  the  CPMP  under  Article  11  of  Council  Directive  75/319,  as  amended,  a  decision  on  a 
harmonised SPC for metformin was issued in February 2001. The indication proposed for Competact 
is consistent with that already approved for Actos in combination with metformin. 
This  application  was  submitted  under  Part  B  of  the  Annex  to  regulation  2309/93  and  was  a  full 
“mixed” application in accordance with Article 8(3) and Annex I Part II.7 of Directive 2001/83/EC as 
amended.  
The present application for a fixed-dose combination was based mainly on: 
•  Three  already  assessed  clinical  studies  where  pioglitazone  was  added  to  metformin  and  that 
previously supported the approval of the product to be used in combination with metformin . 
•  New clinical pharmacology studies intended to demonstrate that the FDC tablet is equivalent 
to both tablets taken separately. 
©EMEA 2006 
2/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The product is a fixed dose combination containing 15 mg of pioglitazone (as hydrochloride) and 850 
mg of metformin hydrochloride as active substances. They are presented as film coated tablets.  
Other  ingredients  are:  cellulose  microcrystalline,  povidone,  croscarmellose  sodium,  magnesium 
stearate, hypromellose, macrogol, talc, and titanium dioxide. 
Film coated tablets are supplied in aluminium/aluminium blisters. 
Active Substances  
Two  active  substances  are  used  in  this  fixed  combination  product,  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  and 
metformin hydrochloride. 
Pioglitazone (as hydrochloride) 
This active substance has been authorised as a result of an earlier centralised procedure for the same 
applicant under the invented names Actos (EU/1/00/150) and Glustin (EU/1/00/151). 
It is a white crystalline solid that is odourless and slightly bitter. The active substance is produced as a 
racemate  and  it  is  practically  insoluble  in  water;  from  practically  insoluble  to  sparingly  soluble  in 
aqueous  solutions  at  different  pH  values,  it  is  soluble  in  several  polar  organic  solvents  and  freely 
soluble  in  dimethylsulfoxide.  Pioglitazone  hydrochloride  has  a  specific  crystalline  form  and  has  not 
demonstrated polymorphism. 
Pioglitazone HCl is manufactured, by chemical synthesis, in five steps. Adequate in-process controls 
are  applied  during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products, 
starting  materials  and  reagents,  have  been  presented.  The  three  batch  synthesis  data  for  each 
manufacturing  site  presented  show  a  reproducible  manufacturing  process  leading  to  homogeneous 
batches. 
Pioglitazone  hydrochloride  specifications  includes  tests  for  description,  identification  (IR,  UV  and 
HPLC),  assay  (HPLC,  99.0-101.0%),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  water 
content, residue on ignition, heavy metals, and particle size. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriates for controlling the quality of this 
active substance. 
The re-test period proposed is acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Metformin hydrochloride 
Metformin  hydrochloride  described  in  the  Ph.  Eur. It  is  a  white  crystalline  powder  that  is  odourless 
and has a slightly bitter taste. The compound is hygroscopic, freely soluble in water, slightly soluble in 
alcohol  and  practically  insoluble  in  acetone,  ether  and  chloroform.  It  has  a  specific  crystalline  form 
and  has  not  demonstrated  polymorphism.  Particle  size  does  not  influence  dissolution  of  metformin 
hydrochloride, because it is freely soluble in water. 
The  chemistry,  manufacturing  and  control  information  on  metformin  hydrochloride  has  been 
evaluated by the EDQM and a European Certificate of Suitability of the Monograph of the European 
Pharmacopoeia (CEP) has been issued. No additional tests are included in the CEP. 
©EMEA 2006 
3/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metformin  hydrochloride  specifications  includes  tests  for  description,  identification  (IR,  PhEur), 
solubility (Ph Eur), melting point (Ph Eur), Loss on drying (Ph Eur), heavy metals (Ph Eur), content 
(Ph Eur, 98.5-101.0%), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), and particle size. 
The tests and limits in the specifications are considered appropriates for controlling the quality of this 
active substance. 
Batch  analysis  data  of  the three  batches  of  metformin  hydrochloride  active  substances  are  provided. 
The three lots are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
The stability of metformin hydrochloride active substance has been evaluated for 19 batches storaged 
under 25ºC ± 2ºC / 60% ± 5% up to 60 months and under 40ºC ± 2ºC / 75% ± 5% for 2 batches. 
The re-test period proposed was considered acceptable according to the stability data submitted. 
Medicinal Product 
(cid:131) Pharmaceutical Development 
As  the  product  is  a  combination  of  two  existing  oral  antidiabetics,  the  product  was  developed  to  be 
bioequivalent  to  commercial  products  containing  the  individual  active  substances.  It  was  found  that 
the  two  most  important  properties  to  influence  the  formulation  selection  were  the  dependence  of 
pioglitazone  hydrochloride  solubility  on  pH  and  the  marked  increase  in  pH  occurring  with  the 
dissolution  of  metformin  hydrochloride  thereby  affecting  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  solubility. 
Therefore,  particle  size  of  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  played  an  important  factor  in  the  drug 
formulation  development.  The  reduced  particle  size  of  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  allows  its 
dissolution  at  an  acidic  pH  before  the  dissolution of  metformin  hydrochloride  changes  the  pH  to  an 
alkaline pH. 
To investigate the potential for interactions between the active substances and other ingredients that 
might  be  used  in  tablet  formulations,  the  binary  compatibility  of  pioglitazone  hydrochloride  and 
metformin  hydrochloride  with  each  other  and  the  excipients  used  for  the  medicinal  product  dosage 
forms was studied using stress and accelerated conditions. Both active substances and each excipient 
were  mixed  physically  at  an  appropriate  ratio.  Good  compatibility  was  demonstrated  between  all  of 
them. 
In  order  to  avoid  the  metformin  hydrochloride  unpleasant  taste,  the  medicinal  product  has  been 
developed  as  film-coated  tablets.  The  excipients  are  conventional  and  compatible  with  the  active 
substances, and meet the requirements in Ph. Eur. 
The  excipients  used  are:  cellulose  microcrystalline  (diluent),  povidone  (binder),  croscarmellose 
sodium  (disintegrant),  magnesium  stearate  (lubricant),  hypromellose  (film  coating  agent),  macrogol 
(plasticizer),  talc  (lubricant),  and  titanium  dioxide  (pigment).  There  are  not  excipients  of  animal  or 
human origin. 
The  package  selected  for  tablets  is  a  conventional  blister  aluminium/aluminium,  that  is  a  protective 
container  against  moisture.  The  choice  of  container  is  influenced  by  the  hygroscopic  properties  of 
metformin hydrochloride and thus the formulation itself. Stability studies demonstrated the suitability 
of the chosen package. 
(cid:131) Manufacture of the Product 
Product  manufacture  consists  of  standard  processes  including  mixing/pulverisation,  granulation/ 
milling, blending, compression, and film coating. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing  process  in  three  production-scale  batches  of  each  and  is  satisfactory.  The  in  process 
controls are adequate for this film coated tablet preparation.  
©EMEA 2006 
4/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  6  commercial  scale  batch  analysis  data  provided  show  that  the  film  coated  tablets  can  be 
manufactured reproducibly according to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable 
for control of this oral preparation. 
(cid:131) Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  of  the 
active substances (HPLC, UV), dissolution of the active substances (Ph Eur), uniformity of content of 
the  active  substances  (HPLC),  assay  of  the  active  substances  (95-105%,  HPLC),  related  substances 
(HPLC), and microbial limit (Ph Eur). 
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  on  three  pilot-scale  batches  confirm  satisfactory  uniformity  of  the  product  at 
release. 
(cid:131) Stability of the Product 
Stability data of three pilot batches of both strengths stored for 6 months at 40˚C ± 2˚C/75% 
RH ± 5% RH and for 18 months at 25˚C ± 2˚C/60% RH ± 5% RH were provided. In addition, 
samples  were  stored  in  stress  conditions  at  50ºC  for  3  months;  60ºC  for  2  months, 
25ºC/31%RH and 25 ºC/93 % for 3 months and were also exposed to light  
The batches of tablets were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing. Samples were 
tested  for  appearance,  dissolution,  assay,  related  substances,  hardness,  loss  on  drying  (LOD), 
microbial testing and moisture limits. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Bioequivalence 
Biopharmaceutics studies demonstrated bioequivalence of both doses of the fixed combination product 
to the individual commercially available pioglitazone and metformin products. Efficacy and safety of 
the  combination  product  is  based  on  studies  of  concomitant  administration  of  the  two  drugs  and  on 
postmarketing experience. As bioequivalence has been demonstrated, the product is expected to be as 
safe  and  effective  as  the  concomitant  use  of  the  individual  drugs.  See  clinical  part  of  the  report  for 
details. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In  general,  the  quality  of  the  product  is  adequately  established,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical documentation has been submitted for marketing authorization. Relevant ICH/CPMP 
guidelines  and  Pharmacopoeial  requirements  have  been  taken  into  account  in  the  quality 
documentation and there are no major deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
Two  active  substances  are  presented  in  this  fixed  combination:  pioglitazone  and  metformin 
hydrochloride.  Pioglitazone  data  were  originally  presented  in  a  previous  EC  application  dossier 
relative to pioglitazone tablets, and information on metformin hydrochloride has been supplied in the 
form of a CEP. 
Acceptable specifications have been presented for both active substances. The synthetic pathway, the 
structure  and  impurity  profile  are  characterized  and  are  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The 
stability data on the active substances supports the proposed re-testing period. 
©EMEA 2006 
5/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The development and the manufacturing process of the finished products are properly described, the 
results from validation batches show that the manufacturing process is successfully validated, and are 
suitable to ensure consistent quality of the active substance and the finished product. 
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  stated  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics can be accepted. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No new non-clinical studies were conducted by the applicant with the FDC (fixed dose combination) 
compound.  The  applicant  has  submitted  extensive  documentation  concerning  nonclinical 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of pioglitazone and metformin.  
The nonclinical data relating to pioglitazone is derived from bibliographic references and original data 
of the previous pioglitazone submission made in 1999. 
The applicant has performed an extensive literature review on metformin using the dates 1960 to 2005 
to search pubmed and toxnet with applicable search terms. There is a paucity of non-clinical studies on 
metformin (especially related to pharmacokinetics and toxicology), but this is superseded by long-term 
clinical experience.  
In  view  of  the  length  and  extent  of  clinical  experience  obtained  with  co-administration  of 
commercially available pioglitazone and metformin, the absence of additional non-clinical studies was 
considered acceptable. 
All pivotal pioglitazone non-clinical studies were conducted according to GLP. Non-clinical studies of 
metformin were conducted prior to the establishment of GLP criteria. 
Pharmacology 
(cid:131)  Primary pharmacodynamics 
In  vitro,  pioglitazone  shows  high  binding  affinity  for  activating  the  human  and  rat  PPARγ  (EC50 
ranging from 420 to 680 nmol/L), but only weak activation of the human PPARα. Metabolites (M-II, 
M-III  and  M-IV)  of  pioglitazone  showed  also  activity  on  PPARγ.  In  vivo,  pioglitazone  reduced 
tumour necrosis factor α and sphingomyelinase (thought to play a role in the development of insulin 
resistance) levels in the tissues of insulin resistant rats to values comparable to those found in insulin-
sensitive  rats.  Increased  insulin-stimulated  glucose  incorporation,  glycogen  synthesis  and  glycolysis 
were observed in preparations from animals treated with pioglitazone. Pioglitazone had no effect on 
plasma glucose or insulin in normoglycemic rats, but induced dose- and time-dependent reductions of 
plasma  glucose,  insulin,  triglycerides,  and  non-esterified  fatty  acids  elevations  in  insulin-resistant, 
genetically  obese/hyperglycaemic  rodents.  Pioglitazone  improved  fasting  and  postprandial  serum 
immuno-reactive  insulin  and  dose-dependently  decreased  plasma  glucose  and  triglycerides  in 
spontaneously obese monkeys, but effects on obese beagle dogs were not consistent. Metabolites M-II, 
M-III and M-IV showed lower but significant hypoglycaemic and hypotriglyceridemic activities. 
The mode of action of metformin is not fully understood, but recent experimental evidence shows that 
metformin decreases gluconeogenesis. In vitro, metformin increases the functional activity of glucose 
transporters  (GLUT-1  and  GLUT-4),  stimulates  AMPK  activity,  and  inhibits  glucose-stimulated 
insulin  secretion  in  both  human  pancreatic  islets  and  a  β-cell  line  (MIN6).  In  vivo,  metformin 
increased glycogen synthase and glycogen phosphorylase in the liver in diabetic mice and controlled 
glycaemia  in  naturally  acquired  diabetic  cats  for  4  months.  However,  in  conscious  normal  dogs  the 
primary effect on glucose metabolism was attributable to a decrease in hepatic glycogenolysis and not 
to an alteration in gluconeogenic flux.  
Coadministration of pioglitazone and metformin decreased plasma glucose and insulin levels further 
than both drugs separately, but did not result in additional decreases of plasma TG levels.  
©EMEA 2006 
6/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The distribution of white and brown adipose tissue is modulated by pioglitazone.  Increases in white 
fat  depots  result  from  increased  caloric  intake  when  the  animals  are  fed  ad  libitum  but  can  be 
controlled by restricting food intake. Human adults do not have an equivalent tissue to the brown fat 
deposits found in rodents thus there can be no clinical impact of the effect of pioglitazone on brown 
fat.    Since  the  animal  studies  show  that  dietary  restriction  can  prevent  weight  gain  as  a  result  of 
increased white fat deposition, dietary control should form part of patient treatment. 
Studies  in  models  of  type  II  diabetes  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs  showed  that  metformin  has 
vasculoprotective  effects.  Anti-ischemic  effects  have  been  demonstrated  in  non-diabetic  hamsters, 
rats,  and  humans.  The  beneficial  effects  in  both  diabetic  and  non-diabetic  subjects  indicate  that  the 
effect is independent of the antihyperglycaemic activity of metformin. Several mechanisms appear to 
be involved. 
(cid:131)  Safety pharmacology programme 
A series of general pharmacology studies were carried out to test the potential of pioglitazone to alter 
cardiovascular, respiratory, central nervous and gastrointestinal system function. In mice, pioglitazone 
decreased spontaneous locomotor activity and showed no effects on skeletal muscle coordination or on 
pentobarbital-induced sleep time; there were no pioglitazone-related effects on body temperature and 
spinal reflex in rats or abnormal activity on EEG recorded from cats. Pioglitazone did not affect the 
blood pressure or heart rate in conscious rats or beagle dogs at a dose of 300 and 30 mg/kg. Recent 
studies suggest that pioglitazone had no significant effect on ventricular myocyte excitability, action 
potential  configuration,  or  membrane  currents  over  the  concentration  range  1  to  10  µmol/L.  At  100 
µmol/L, pioglitazone produced a rightward shift in the concentration-response curve of the contraction 
of  the  isolated  guinea  pig  ileum  in  response  to  acetylcholine,  histamine,  and  barium  and  slightly 
inhibited  the  maximum  contraction.  Pioglitazone  had  no  significant  effect  on  gastric  emptying, 
intestinal transport, and urine volume or urinary excretion of sodium or potassium in rats. 
No formal safety pharmacology studies have been performed on metformin that was developed in the 
1950s.  No  such  studies  are  considered  necessary  in  view  of  the  extensive  clinical  experience 
accumulated over several decades of use. 
(cid:131)  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  specific  studies  of  potential  drug  interactions  with  pioglitazone  were  carried  out.  The  weight  of 
evidence suggested that serious adverse drug interactions with insulin, glibenclamide or voglibose, an 
α-glucosidase inhibitor, were unlikely. No specific studies on the safety pharmacology of metformin 
were provided, which was acceptable as it is superseded by clinical experience. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pioglitazone is a high permeability and low solubility drug, metformin is a low permeability and high 
solubility  drug,  good  absorption  was  observed  in  animals  and  in  humans  for  both  drugs  with  no 
(metformin) or low (pioglitazone) hepatic first-pass effect. 
Plasma  protein  binding  of pioglitazone across  species  was  relatively high.  Radioactivity  was  widely 
distributed  to  tissues  in  rats  after  [14C]pioglitazone  administration,  and  was  excreted  into  milk  of 
lactating rats. Metformin binds negligibly to plasma proteins.  
Pioglitazone  did  not  induce  cytochrome  P450  in  rats.  All  six  human  Phase  I  metabolites  of 
pioglitazone were identified in mice, rats, dogs, and monkeys. Pioglitazone is metabolized primarily 
by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4. The contribution of these CYP isoforms to the metabolism of pioglitazone 
was  comparable  with  the  residual  activity  caused  by  other  isoforms  including  CYP1A1,  CYP1A2, 
CYP2C9,  CYP2C19  and  CYP2D6.  Results  of  extensive  in  vitro  testing  indicate  little  potential  for 
pioglitazone to inhibit the metabolism of other drugs via these mechanisms. Since pioglitazone is not 
exclusively  metabolised  by  any  CYP  isoform,  it  is  unlikely  that  other  drugs  will  interfere  with  its 
metabolism and vice versa. Metformin is not metabolized in all species. 
©EMEA 2006 
7/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radioactivity  was  excreted  rapidly  in  all  species  following  administration  of  [14C]pioglitazone, 
generally  by  the  faecal  excretion  route  and  by  the  urinary  excretion  route  in  monkeys.  In  rats, 
pioglitazone-derived  radioactivity  was  re-absorbed  following  excretion  into  bile.  Metformin  is 
primarily eliminated by renal secretion. 
In  conclusion,  the  preclinical  pharmacokinetics  and  metabolism  data  supports  the  clinical 
pharmacokinetic experience with this drug in combination use with metformin. 
Toxicology 
(cid:131)  Single dose toxicity 
Pioglitazone was well tolerated in both rats and mice after single oral doses up to 2000 mg/kg. LD50 
values  following  intraperitoneal  dosing  were  181 mg/kg  for  mice  of  both  sexes  and  558  and  587 
mg/kg  for  male  and  female  rats,  respectively.  Oral  metformin  LD50  values  were  high  enough  in 
relation to a human dose intended in the clinical practice.  
(cid:131)  Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  of  pioglitazone  after  oral  administration  was  studied  in  mouse  (up  to  13 
weeks), rat (up to 13 weeks) dog (up to3 months) and monkey (up to 90 days). The NOAEL, defined 
as  the  highest  doses  that  did  not  produce  increased  heart  weight,  were  3.2 mg/kg/day  (mice),  1 
mg/kg/day  (rats),  1.1  and  3.4  mg/kg/day  (male  and  female  dogs,  respectively),  and  35.6  mg/kg/day 
(monkeys).  Plasma  volume  expansion,  because  of  the  enhancement  of  the  natriuretic  properties  of 
insulin,  produced  hemodilution  (decreased  erythrocyte  count,  haemoglobin  and  haematocrit) 
consistently  observed  through  species  at  high  doses.  Cardiac  hypertrophy  was  observed  in  rats  and 
dogs,  because  of  plasma  volume  expansion,  were  shown  to  be  adaptive  and  reversible.  There  were 
also  changes  in  the  size  and  location  of  fat  tissue  in  rodents  at  high  doses,  which  were  considered 
originated by an exaggeration of this pharmacological activity. Liver issues observed in rodents were 
not  associated  with  elevation  of  liver  enzymes  or  any  signs  of  pathology,  and  were  considered  an 
adaptive response. The elevation of ALT values observed in dogs was reversible and not associated 
with  histopathological  changes.  No  evidence  of  toxicity  was  reported  in  chronic  toxicity  studies  by 
oral and parenteral routes in rats, rabbits, and dogs.  
There is a paucity of information on metformin, but information gained from studies in rats and rabbits 
dosed at greater than 100 mg/kg/day showed no abnormalities in growth, haematology, urea nitrogen 
or histopathology. 
(cid:131)  Genotoxicity 
Pioglitazone, along with several of its metabolites and impurities have been shown to have no genotoxic 
potential in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies 
No evidence of genotoxicity of metformin was found in Ames test (S. typhimurium), mammalian gene 
mutation assay in mouse lymphoma cells, chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes, or in a 
mouse bone marrow micronucleus test. 
(cid:131)  Carcinogenicity 
There is no evidence of direct genotoxicity, mitogenesis or cytotoxicity with pioglitazone. There was 
no  indication  of  any  carcinogenic  potential  for  pioglitazone  in  mice.  However,  there  was  a  dose-
related trend towards increased incidence of urinary bladder tumours in male rats at 4 mg/kg/day and 
higher,  as  mentioned  in  section  5.3  of  the  SPC.  At  the  time  of  marketing  authorisation  for 
pioglitazone, the hypothesis presented by the applicant of bladder tumours associated with increased 
pH  levels  and  subsequent  calculi  formation  specific  to  male  rats  was  considered  reasonable.  Since 
then, more PPAR agonists have come to clinical development and presented with similar hyperplastic 
and tumour responses. Therefore it may be considered that carcinogenicity and PPAR activation may 
be a class effect, but its transferability to man is as yet unknown. Following consultation between the 
CHMP and the applicant, the applicant has initiated a series of studies aimed at further investigating 
the mechanism by which pioglitazone results in a slight increase in urinary bladder tumours in male 
rats (see table of the risk management plan).  
©EMEA 2006 
8/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies with metformin have been performed in rats (≤900 mg/kg/day for 
104 weeks) and in mice (≤1500 mg/kg/day for 91 weeks). No evidence of carcinogenicity was found 
in  male  or  female  mice  or  in  male  rats.  In  female  rats,  there  was  an  increased  incidence  of  benign 
stromal uterine polyps at the highest dose. A literature search was conducted on the terms metformin 
and cancer to note whether there is any possibility that metformin may promote tumour development 
in any way. The results suggest that the drug has a beneficial effect in cancer, and therefore it does not 
appear likely that metformin use in combination with pioglitazone increases any potential cancer risk. 
(cid:131)  Reproduction Toxicity 
Adverse  birth  and  developmental  effects  are  reported  in  the  offspring  of  animals  treated  with 
pioglitazone (as mentioned in the SPC, section 5.3). These are often associated with adverse maternal 
effects, many of which have been attributed to the pharmacological action of the drug and which occur 
within the clinical dose/exposure range.  It is suggested that the adverse effects of pioglitazone on the 
pups result from disturbances in maternal physiology rather than a direct toxic effect.   
The fertility of male and female rats was unaffected by metformin administration at doses as high as 
600 mg/kg/day. Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at daily doses up to 600 mg/kg/day. 
In  a  recent  report,  embryotoxicity  was  observed  in  vitro  in  a  mouse  embryo  model  at  the  highest 
concentration  of  100  µg/mL  but  not  at  25  and  5  µg/mL,  the  latter  concentration  being  similar  to  a 
maximum  clinical  serum  level.  Therefore,  the  FDC  of  pioglitazone/metformin  should  not  be  used 
during pregnancy; this is reflected in the wording of the SPC in section 4.6. 
(cid:131)  Other toxicity studies 
There were no manifestations of toxicity in the pigmented tissues of dogs or monkeys in studies of up 
to one-year duration. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  physico-chemical  properties  of  pioglitazone  and  metformin  and  the  predicted  concentrations 
likely to enter the environment are not considered to represent a risk to the environment 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This  application  was  submitted  under  Part  B  of  the  Annex  to  regulation  2309/93  as  a  full  “mixed” 
application.  The  application  is  for  a  fixed  dose  combination  product,  Competact,  containing  two 
authorized  ingredients,  pioglitazone  (as  hydrochloride)  and  metformin  hydrochloride.  Actos 
(pioglitazone hydrochloride) was originally authorized in the European Union in October 2000 and is 
currently  authorised  for  use  as  monotherapy  or  as  combination  therapy  with  either  metformin  or  a 
sulphonylurea  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus.  Metformin  was  originally  granted  national 
authorisations  in  the  EU  from  1959  to  1997.  Following  a  referral  to  the  CPMP  under  Article  11  of 
Council Directive 75/319, as amended, a decision on a harmonised SPC for metformin was issued in 
February 2001.  
The  approved  indication  is  for  “the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  patients,  particularly 
overweight  patients,  who  are  unable  to  achieve  sufficient  glycaemic  control  at  their  maximally 
tolerated  dose  of  oral  metformin  alone.”  The  claimed  posology  for  this  fixed  dose  combination 
product was for two strengths, 15mg/500mg and 15mg/850mg of pioglitazone (as hydrochloride) and 
metformin  hydrochloride,  respectively.  The  posology  approved  is  for  15mg/850mg  of  pioglitazone 
and metformin hydrochloride. 
The  data  relating  to  pioglitazone  was  original  data  that  fulfilled  all  of  the  requirements  for 
pharmacological tests and clinical trials and covers all of the indents in Part I.5 of Annex I Directive 
2001/83/EC  as  amended.  The  clinical  documentation  concerning  metformin  was  derived  from 
bibliographic  references.  The  applicant  had  conducted  a  detailed  literature  search  to  source  suitable 
©EMEA 2006 
9/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
publications for a review of the information. All aspects of metformin pharmacokinetics were assessed 
in published bibliographic reviews and study reports that together provided an extensive body of data. 
The  Applicant  has  performed  4  bioequivalence  studies  (2  of  them  relevant  for  this  dossier)  and  one 
food- effect study. No clinical efficacy studies were conducted with the pioglitazone/metformin fixed-
dose combination product. Clinical efficacy of the fixed-dose combination product is based on results 
of  concomitant  administration  of  the  two  drugs,  clinical  trials  with  the  individual  components  and 
literature data for metformin. Coadministration studies of pioglitazone with metformin encompassed 
two  short-term  studies  with  16  to  24  weeks’  duration  and  a  104-week  active-controlled  long-term 
study. 
A  paediatric  development  programme  for  this  medicinal  product  was  not  proposed  and  this  was 
thought to be acceptable, given the fact that the indication is primarily for a condition of adults. No 
scientific advice has been given in relation to this application. 
GCP 
The  Clinical  trials  involving  pioglitazone  and  the  biopharmaceutic  studies  with  the  fixed  dose 
combination were conducted in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out under acceptable ethical standards of the Declaration of Helsinki and in 
accordance with the relevant GCP standards 
Pharmacokinetics 
(cid:131)  Absorption and Bioequivalence 
Pioglitazone  is  rapidly  absorbed  reaching  maximum  plasma  concentrations  at  0.5-3hrs  after  drug 
intake. The absolute bioavailability ranged between 70% and 96% with a mean value of 83%.  Food 
does not significantly influence the absorption of pioglitazone.  
Metformin  has  an  absolute  oral  bioavailability  of  40-60%  and  peak  concentrations  are  reached  in 
approximately  2.5  hours.  Absorption  is  incomplete  with  20-30%  of  an  oral  dose  recovered  in  the 
faeces. Absorption which is largely from the upper small intestine appears to be saturable resulting in 
less that dose proportional pharmacokinetics. Steady state plasma concentrations are reached within 24 
hours at therapeutic doses and are usually in the range of 1-2  mcg/ml. Food decreases the  extent of 
absorption  by 25-40% and delays tmax by less than an hour. 
In  order  to  provide  support  for  marketing  approval  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  product,  the 
Applicant has performed 4 bioequivalence studies (2 of them relevant for this dossier) and one food- 
effect study: 
The  Applicant  performed  two  bioequivalence  studies  (OPIMET-004  and  OPIMET-005)  to  evaluate 
two  new  formulations,  a  bilayer  formulation  (Competact  BL)  and  a  micronised  formulation 
(Competact  MP),  to  demonstrate  that  pioglitazone  15  mg/metformin  500  mg  (Competact  MP  and 
Competact BL) and pioglitazone 15 mg/metformin 850 mg (Competact MP and Competact BL) were 
bioequivalent  to  concomitant  use  of  the  separate  commercial  pioglitazone15 mg  and  metformin  500 
mg or metformin 850 mg tablets, respectively. Upon completion of these studies, the Competact MP 
formulation was identified as suitable for commercial development. A fifth study (OPIMET-006) was 
performed to investigate the effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of pioglitazone, metformin and the 
fixed-dose  combination.    The  commercial  tablets  used  in  these  studies  were  Pioglitazone  and 
Metformin.  The  bioequivalence  studies  and  the  food-effect  study  were  designed  in  accordance  with 
the relevant  CHMP Notes for Guidance (EMEA  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, 2001) and the relevant 
FDA guidance for industry (FDA, 2002). 
Study OPIMET-004 was a single-centre, open-label, randomized, 3-period crossover study. Subjects 
were  randomized  to  1  of  6  treatment  sequences  in  which  they  received  a  single  oral  dose  of  each 
©EMEA 2006 
10/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment: 15/500 mg pioglitazone/metformin fixed-dose combination micronised (MP) tablet, 15/500 
mg  pioglitazone/metformin  fixed-dose  combination  bilayer  (BL)  tablet,  and  a  15  mg  pioglitazone 
commercial  tablet  coadministered  with  a  500  mg  metformin  commercial  tablet.  The  3  treatment 
periods  were  separated  by  a  washout  period  of  7  days.  During  each  period,  blood  samples  were 
collected  at  specified  times  up  to  72  hours  post  treatment  for  the  measurement  of  pioglitazone  and 
metformin  concentrations.  Adverse  events  (AEs)  and  concomitant  medications  were  monitored  and 
recorded throughout the study. Other safety evaluations included clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, 
electrocardiograms (ECGs), and physical examinations. 
A total of 66 subjects (mean age of 31.3 years), including 29 male subjects and 37 female  subjects, 
were  enrolled  in  the  study;  62  (93.9  %)  subjects,  including  28  males  and  34  female  subjects, 
completed  the  study.  Four  subjects  discontinued  the  study  early:  1  subject  withdrew  voluntarily;  1 
subject  withdrew  because  of  an  AE  (mild  allergic  reaction);  1  subject  withdrew  because  the  subject 
became pregnant; and 1 subject was withdrawn because of a protocol violation. 
Based on the primary analysis of AUC and Cmax, exposure to pioglitazone and metformin following 
administration  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  MP  tablet  was  similar  to  that  observed  following 
coadministration of the separate commercial pioglitazone and metformin tablets. For both pioglitazone 
and  metformin,  the  90%  CIs  of  the  LS  mean  ratios  of  AUC(0-tlqc),  AUC(0-inf),  and  Cmax  were 
within the 80% to 125% range for bioequivalence (97.7 %, 102.5 %, and 95.0 %, for Pioglitazone, and 
102.6  %,  102,8  %,  and  99.0  %  for  Metformin,  respectively).  In  addition,  there  were  no  statistically 
significant  differences  observed  in  treatment  comparisons  of  Tmax  and  λz  for  pioglitazone  or 
metformin, and there were no notable differences between the treatments with respect to T1/2 or CL/F. 
The  overall  results 
tablet  (pioglitazone 
15mg/metformin 500mg) is bioequivalent with respect to rate and extent of exposure compared to the 
separate  components  available  commercially.  This  tablet  strength,  however,  had  been  not  pursued 
further during evaluation of the dossier. 
the  fixed-dose  combination 
thus  demonstrate 
that 
Study OPIMET-005 had the same design as Study OPIMET-004 (see above) except that it compared 
15/850  mg  pioglitazone/metformin  fixed-dose  combination  tablets  with  the  15  mg  pioglitazone 
commercial tablet co-administered together with an 850 mg metformin commercial tablet. 
A total of 64 subjects (mean age of 32.0 years), including 35 male subjects and 29 female  subjects, 
were randomly assigned to treatment in the study at 1 study site, and 60 (93.8 %) subjects, including 
33  male  and  27  female  subjects,  completed  the  study.  Four  subjects  discontinued  the  study  early:  2 
subjects withdrew voluntarily; 1 subject was withdrawn because the subject became pregnant; and 1 
subject was lost to follow-up. 
Based on the primary analysis of AUC and Cmax, exposure to pioglitazone and metformin following 
administration  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  MP  tablet  was  similar  to  that  observed  following 
coadministration of the separate commercial pioglitazone and metformin tablets. As in Study 01-01-
TL-OPIMET-005, for both pioglitazone and metformin, the 90% CIs of the LS mean ratios of AUC(0-
tlqc), AUC(0-inf), and Cmax were all within the 80% to 125% range for bioequivalence. Similar results 
were obtained even when carryover effects were included in the ANOVA model. With regard to the 
BL  tablet,  exposure  to  pioglitazone  and  metformin  was  also  similar  to  that  observed  following 
coadministration  of  the  separate  pioglitazone  and  metformin  commercial  tablets.  As  with  the  MP 
tablet, the 90% CIs of the LS mean ratios for AUC(0-tlqc), AUC(0-inf), and Cmax for both pioglitazone 
and metformin were within the 80% to 125% bioequivalence range, even when carryover effect was 
included in the ANOVA model. In addition, there were no statistically significant differences observed 
in treatment comparisons of Tmax and λz for pioglitazone or metformin, and there were no significant 
differences between the treatments with respect to T1/2 or CL/F. 
The  overall  results  of  the  2  studies  OPIMET-004  and  –005  demonstrate  that  the  fixed-dose 
combination tablets (pioglitazone 15mg/metformin 500mg and pioglitazone 15mg/metformin 850mg) 
were bioequivalent with respect to rate and extent of exposure compared to the separate components 
available commercially. 
Study  OPIMET-006  was  conducted  to  determine  the  effect  of  food  on  the  exposure  to  pioglitazone 
and metformin after administration of the pioglitazone/metformin fixed-dose combination tablet. Both 
the  Competact  BL  and  MP  formulations  were  investigated  during  this  study,  and  the  higher  dose 
(pioglitazone 15 mg/metformin 850 mg) of each formulation was evaluated. The study was designed 
©EMEA 2006 
11/27 
 
 
 
 
 
so  that  all  28  subjects  would  receive  both  formulations  with  and  without  food,  according  to  a 
randomly assigned sequence. After each dose, blood samples were collected at specified time points 
up  to  72  hours  post  treatment  for  the  measurement  of  pioglitazone  and  metformin  concentrations. 
Administration of the 4 treatments was separated by a 7-day washout period. 
An analysis of variance (ANOVA) with fixed effects for sequence, period, and treatment and random 
effect  for  subject  nested  within  sequence  was  performed  on  time  to  maximum  concentration  (Tmax), 
terminal  rate  constant  (λz),  and  the  natural  logarithms  of  AUC(0-tlqc),  AUC(0-inf),  and  Cmax  for 
pioglitazone  and  metformin.  All  28 subjects  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical 
analyses of the MP formulation. Based on AUC and Cmax values, there was an absence of food-effect 
response  on  total  and  peak  exposure  of  pioglitazone  and  on  the  total  exposure  of  metformin.  For 
pioglitazone, the 90% CIs of the LS mean ratios of AUC(0-tlqc), AUC(0-inf), and Cmax were within 
the  80%,  125%  range.  For  metformin,  the  90%  CIs  of  the  LS  mean  ratios  for  AUC(0-tlqc)  and 
AUC(0-inf) were within the 80%, 125% range, although there was a 13% decrease in total exposure to 
metformin based on the point estimate value. There was a food-effect response on the peak exposure 
of  metformin.  The  90%  CI  of  the  LS  mean  ratio  for  Cmax  was  (65.4%,  79.1%),  and  the  decrease  in 
peak exposure to metformin was 28%. Drug dosing with food resulted in prolongation of Tmax from 
approximately  1.6  to  3.5  hours  for  pioglitazone  and  from  approximately  2.4  to  3.2  hours  for 
metformin; both findings are consistent with what is known to occur for Pioglitazone and Metformin. 
With  respect  to  study  OPIMET-006,  a  food-  effect  for  metformin  was  shown  (decreased  Cmax  and 
AUC and delayed Tmax). This influence of food on the pharmacokinetics of metformin was expected 
and  it  is  also  described  when  it  is  administered  alone.  The  magnitude  of  this  food-effect  in  the 
Competact tablet was lower than that described in the harmonised SPC for metformin. Overall, results 
from Study OPIMET-006 indicated that the food-effect responses for Competact MP were generally 
consistent with those previously reported for marketed Pioglitazone and Metformin. 
(cid:131)  Distribution, Elimination, and Dose proportionality 
Single  and  multiple  dose  studies  with  Pioglitazone  demonstrate  linearity  of  pharmacokinetics  in  the 
therapeutic dose range. The volume of distribution is small with a mean of 0.253L/kg.  Pioglitazone is 
extensively  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  Pioglitazone  undergoes  extensive  hepatic  metabolism  by 
hydroxylation  of  aliphatic  methylene  groups.    The  clearance  is  sensitive  to  changes  in  both  the 
intrinsic  capacity  of  the  liver  to  oxidise  drugs  and  the  free  fraction  in  plasma  and  was  found  to  be 
independent  of  dose  in  the  range  of  2-60mg.  Regular  monitoring  of  liver  function  is  therefore 
recommended  in  the  SPC  (section  4.4),  and  liver  impairment  constitutes  a  contraindication  (section 
4.3 of the SPC). The terminal elimination half-life following intravenous administration was found to 
vary between 3.5–9.0 hrs with a mean value of 5.8 hrs.  Following oral administration, the terminal 
half-life observed in most studies is in the same range. Renal elimination of unchanged pioglitazone is 
negligible. 
Metformin  reached  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  within  24  hours  at  therapeutic  doses  and  are 
usually in the range of 1-2 mcg/ml. It is rapidly distributed and does not bind to plasma proteins. No 
metabolites or conjugates have been identified. As metformin is primarily excreted unchanged in the 
urine,  significant  accumulation  may  occur  in  renal  impairment,  resulting  in  increased  risk  of  lactic 
acidosis. Therefore, Competact is contraindicated in patients with moderate renal impairment, with a 
creatinine clearance< 60ml/min, as indicated in the SPC, section 4.3. In addition, it is recommended in 
the SPC’s section 4.4 to measure renal function regularly. 
(cid:131)  Special populations and Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Pioglitazone:  The  profile  of  metabolites  in  diabetic  patients  is  similar  to  that  seen  in  healthy 
volunteers.  Kinetics is not appreciably different in the elderly. Drug interaction studies indicate that 
pioglitazone does not inhibit the metabolism of drugs cleared by the P450 system. Pioglitazone did not 
affect the steady state pharmacokinetics of sulphonylureas.  Metformin has no major effect on serum 
pioglitazone concentrations. 
Metformin  doses  of  0.5  to 1.5g  have  an  absolute  oral  bioavailability  of  40  to  60%.  The  discrepancy 
between the amount of drug absorbed and the amount available may result from presystemic clearance 
or binding to the intestinal wall. There was no statistically significant difference in pharmacokinetics 
of metformin between healthy subjects and patients with T2DM shown in clinical studies. 
Potential interactions between metformin and acarbose, guar gum and cimetidine exist  
©EMEA 2006 
12/27 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were submitted for this FDC application. 
(cid:131)  Mechanism of action and Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione and a potent and highly selective agonist for the nuclear receptor 
peroxisome  proliferator-activated  receptor  (PPAR)γ.  PPAR  receptors  are  found  in  tissues  important 
for  insulin  action  such  as  adipose  tissue,  skeletal  muscle,  and  liver.  Activation  of  PPARγ  receptors 
modulates the transcription of a number of insulin-responsive genes involved in the control of glucose 
and  lipid  metabolism.  This  results  in  an  enhancement  of  insulin  sensitivity,  which  manifests  in 
reduced  hepatic  glucose  production,  increased  glucose  uptake  in  muscle,  and  reduced  lipolysis  in 
adipocytes. Data in humans to support this mechanism have been done using the euglycaemic clamp 
technique  and  intravenous  glucose  tolerance  tests  with  application  of  a  minimal  model.  Studies 
investigating the  pharmacodynamics  of  pioglitazone  in  diabetic  subjects  have  shown  that once-daily 
administration of pioglitazone at doses of 15, 30 or 60mg improved both FBG and postprandial blood 
glucose  levels,  the  hypoglycaemic  effect  being  maintained  throughout  the  day.  This  effect  appeared 
within  2  weeks  of  treatment.  The  fact  that  both  fasting  and  postprandial  blood  glucose  profiles  are 
improved  by  pioglitazone  suggests  that  pioglitazone  may  improve  glucose  metabolism  in  diabetic 
patients.  Significant  reductions  in  postprandial  insulin  were  seen  in  these  studies  but  almost  no 
reductions in fasting insulin were seen. This suggests that pioglitazone has no direct stimulatory effect 
on the beta cells of the pancreas. 
The glucose lowering effect of metformin results from a 25-30% decrease in the rate of endogenous 
glucose production. This results in a similar relative reduction in fasting plasma glucose levels. It was 
also  shown  that  metformin  reduces  glucose  production  either  by  decreasing  gluconeogenesis  or  by 
decreasing glycogenolysis. To a lesser extent, plasma glucose levels are decreased by the stimulation 
of peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, which is more likely secondary to 
the reversal of glucotoxicity and not a direct pharmacological effect. Unlike sulfonylureas, metformin 
does not stimulate insulin secretion. 
In addition metformin decreases plasma free fatty acid concentration by 10-30% in individuals with 
diabetes. Elevated levels of free fatty acid may contribute to increased hepatic glucose production and 
peripheral  insulin  resistance.  By  ameliorating  the  effects  of  high  free  fatty  acid  (lipotoxicity)  on 
pancreatic  β  cells,  metformin  may  also  partially  correct  the  impaired  insulin  secretion  that 
characterizes  the  type  2  diabetic  state.  Metformin  was  found  in  high  concentrations  in  the  small 
intestine  and  may  also  decrease  intestinal  glucose  absorption.  Metformin  decreases  fasting  plasma 
glucose by 2.5-3.5 mmol/L with a 1-2 % decline in haemoglobin Alc (HbAlc). 
When  used  together,  pioglitazone  and  metformin  provide  additive  benefits  and  lead  to  improved 
control of blood glucose levels. Since neither pioglitazone nor metformin stimulate insulin secretion 
from the pancreatic beta-cells, the benefits are realised without commensurate increases in circulating 
insulin levels. 
Clinical efficacy  
No clinical studies have been conducted with Competact. Demonstration of efficacy of this FDC relies 
on the clinical studies for Actos as monotherapy and in combination therapy with metformin (which 
have been previously submitted and evaluated as part of the Actos application) and on bibliographic 
combination 
data 
pioglitazone/metformin product relies largely on 1 pioglitazone plus metformin combination therapy 
study submitted in 1999 (PNFP-027), and 2 pioglitazone plus metformin combination therapy studies 
submitted between 2002 and 2004 (EC410 and PNFP-342). 
component.  The 
the  metformin 
fixed-dose 
support 
the 
for 
for 
(cid:131)  Dose response studies 
A number of placebo-controlled studies with pioglitazone as monotherapy have been performed and 
submitted as part of the 1999 MAA. From these data, a dose-response relationship was found from 15 
©EMEA 2006 
13/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 45 mg, the magnitude of the glycaemic response in the range of 0.5% to 2.0% for HbA1c and 1 to 4 
mmol/L (20-70 mg/dL) for blood glucose.  
Metformin  immediate-release  tablets  can  be  administered  twice  daily  with  meals  if  <2000  mg  is 
needed for blood glucose control or three times daily in divided doses with  meals for daily dosages 
>2000 mg. In clinical trials, metformin monotherapy reduced FPG by 52-92 mg/dl and HbA1c by 1.4-
2.0% versus placebo over the dose range of 1700 mg-3000 mg daily (Garber, 1997; Stratton, 2000; De 
Fronzo, 1995). The majority of these trials enrolled overweight or obese patients with type 2 diabetes 
in  whom  glycaemic  control  was  inadequate  with  diet  and  exercise  alone.  Reductions  in  these 
glycaemic  parameters  are  log-linear  and  dose-dependent  over  the  dose  range  of  500-2000  mg  daily 
(Garber, 1997).  
Dose-response effects thus have been demonstrated for both actives. 
(cid:131)  Main studies  
The  studies  which  are  considered  pivotal  to  support  the  combination  use  of  pioglitazone  and 
metformin are studies EC410, PNFP-342 and PNFP-027. The design of these studies is summarised in 
Table 1 
Table 1  
Overview of Pioglitazone Plus Metformin Combination Therapy Studies 
Study 
Duration  Treatments (a) 
Patients 
(ITT) 
Critical Design Features 
EC410 
104 weeks 
PNFP-342 
24 weeks 
PNFP-027 
16 weeks 
310 
Pioglitazone 15-45mg + 
Metformin 
Gliclazide 80-320mg + 
Metformin 
Pioglitazone 30mg + Metformin 411 
Pioglitazone 45mg + Metformin 416 
Placebo + Metformin 
160 
Pioglitazone 30mg + Metformin 168 
310 
Dose-titration (tolerability based) 
Change from baseline analysis 
Fixed dose 
Fixed dose 
(a) 
In  EC410 
the 
comparator 
drugs  were 
titrated 
to  maximal 
tolerated 
dose. 
These studies differed in duration of treatment, use of control, and inclusion of a dose-titration period. 
They  were  similar  in  that  pioglitazone  treatment  was  added  to  an  existing  metformin  regimen  that 
provided insufficient glycaemic control. Also, the dosage of metformin could not be changed once the 
double-blind treatment  period  had  started,  so  that all  patients  were  maintained  on  a  stable,  maximal 
tolerated dose of metformin throughout the treatment period. The combination therapy studies shown 
in  table  1  included  1305  pioglitazone-treated  patients.  The  subsequent  sections  summarize  the  3 
studies, with an emphasis on study EC 410. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
In Study EC410, Pioglitazone vs. Gliclazide as Add-on to Metformin was tested in patients with type 
2  diabetes,  35  to  75  years  of  age,  with  HbA1c  7.5%  to  11.0%  and  fasting  C-peptide  greater  than  or 
equal  to  1.5ng/mL  who  were  currently  being  treated  with  metformin  at  50%  or  greater  maximum 
recommended dose or at the maximum tolerated the dose for at least 3 months were included into this 
double-blind, randomised, active-comparator study.  
In study PNFP-342, 30 mg Pioglitazone vs. 45 mg Pioglitazone as Add-on to Metformin was tested in 
patients whose type 2 diabetes was poorly controlled by their current metformin therapy (HbA1c ≥8% 
at screening) and who had a BMI 25 to 45 kg/m2. After a 1-week single-blind placebo lead-in period, 
subjects received 24 weeks of double-blind treatment during which their dosage of metformin could 
not  be  adjusted.  In  study  PNFP-027,  30 mg  Pioglitazone  was  compared  vs.  Placebo  as  Add-on  to 
Metformin  in  male  and  female  patients  30  to  75  years  of  age  with  BMI  between  25  and  45,  HbA1c 
greater  than  or  equal  to  8.0%,  and  C-peptide  greater  than  1  ng/mL  who  had  received  constant 
treatment with metformin for at least 30 days prior to participation in the study for treatment of type 2 
diabetes. 
©EMEA 2006 
14/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 summarizes the entry criteria of all 3 studies: 
Table 2  
Summary of Entry Criteria 
EC410 
35-75 
≥3 months 
PNFP-342 
>18 
≥30 days 
PNFP-027 
30-75 
≥30 days 
Insulin, any 
sulphonylurea, any TZD 
- 
7.5-11.0 
≥1.5  
Insulin, any TZD 
Insulin, any TZD 
25-45 
≥8 
- 
25-45 
≥8 
>1 
Age (yr) 
Period on existing 
antidiabetic medication 
Previous antidiabetic 
medication prohibited 
BMI (kg/m2) 
HbA1c (%) 
Fasting C-peptide 
(ng/mL) 
TZD = thiazolidinedione. 
Treatments, Objectives 
In Study EC410, eligible patients were randomly assigned to receive pioglitazone or gliclazide for 104 
weeks  in  addition  to  their  existing  metformin  therapy.  Patients  were  initially  seen  every  4  weeks 
during a forced titration period of 16 weeks where the dose of study drug was increased at each visit 
from 15 mg od to 45 mg od pioglitazone or 80 mg od through 4 steps to 160 mg bid gliclazide. The 
dose of study drug was increased at each time point during titration unless the patient had not tolerated 
the  previous  dose  or  the  investigator  considered  that  the  patient  was  at  risk  of  experiencing 
hypoglycaemia, or other tolerability issues, should the dose of study drug be further increased. In such 
circumstances, a reduction in dose by one titration step was permitted. Thereafter, dose of study drug 
was maintained throughout the remaining 88 weeks of the study. 
In study PNFP-342, after a 1-week single-blind placebo lead-in period, subjects received 24 weeks of 
double-blind treatment during which their dosage of metformin could not be adjusted. In study PNFP-
027,  each  individual  patient’s  dose  of  metformin  remained  constant  throughout  the  duration  of  the 
study,  and  any  other  antidiabetic  medications  were  discontinued  at  study  entry.  Patients  were 
randomly assigned to treatment with either 30 mg pioglitazone or placebo in addition to metformin for 
a period of 16 weeks. 
Outcomes, Endpoints 
For all 3 studies the primary efficacy measure was the change in HbA1c from baseline to last value, 
with a number of secondary endpoints in each study. 
Statistical methods 
In  Study  EC410,  the  data  presented  for  all  efficacy  variables  analyses  the  change  from  baseline  to 
Week  104  (LOCF)  using  an  ANCOVA  model  with  the  factor  treatment  and  the  baseline  value  as 
covariate  testing  the  null  hypothesis  that  there  is  no  treatment  difference  (2-sided  test,  α=0.05).  In 
addition, 95% confidence intervals were calculated. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Withdrawal  rates  with  pioglitazone  after  2  years  were  not  higher  than  those  in  shorter-term  studies. 
Although  the  studies  were  performed  in  different  geographical  locations,  this  suggests  that 
pioglitazone and metformin combinations were generally effective and well tolerated over the longer 
term.  The  most  common  reasons  for  withdrawal  were  adverse  event  or  lack  of  clinical  efficacy  but 
these were not more common than with gliclazide in study EC410. 
In Study EC410, 74% of patients in the pioglitazone group completed 2 years of treatment compared 
with  76%  in  the  gliclazide  group.  Adverse  events  and  lack  of  efficacy  accounted  for  approximately 
half of the withdrawals with no major difference between the groups.  
©EMEA 2006 
15/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
In Study EC410, 630 patients who were randomly assigned to treatment (317 patients to pioglitazone 
and  313  patients  to  metformin)  were  included.  The  mean  age  of  the  patients  was  approximately  56 
years. Approximately 50% of the population was male and more than 99% was Caucasian. Mean BMI 
was 32.6. Mean HbA1c at baseline was slightly higher in the pioglitazone plus metformin group (8.7%) 
than in the gliclazide plus metformin group (8.5%). There were no other significant differences among 
the treatment groups for any of the baseline variables. The mean dose of study drug at the end of dose 
titration was 38.9 mg pioglitazone and 211.7 mg gliclazide. 
Table 3 gives an overview of the baseline characteristics of all 3 studies. 
Table 3  
Summary of Demographics and Baseline Characteristics 
EC410 
N=630 
50/50 
56 
PNFP-342 
N=827 
58/42 
54 
PNFP-027 
N=328 
57/43 
56 
Gender (%M/%F) 
Mean age (yr) 
Race (%) 
Caucasian 
Black 
Hispanic 
Other 
Median Duration of 
Diabetes (yr) 
Mean BMI (kg/m2) 
HbA1c (% P/C) (a) 
FPG (mmol/L) (a) 
(a) HbA1c and FPG are displayed for individual treatment groups: pioglitazone/gliclazide (EC410); 30 mg/45 mg (PNFP-
342); pioglitazone/placebo (PNFP-027). 
32.6 
8.71/8.53 
11.8/11.3 
32.4 
9.92/9.86 
13.1/13.0 
32.1 
9.75/9.86 
14.3/14.0 
64.8 
19.0 
13.5 
2.7 
- 
83.8 
7.3 
7.0 
1.9 
- 
99.7 
0 
0 
0.3 
4.3 
In  general,  demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  were  well  matched  across  the  studies.  Whilst 
most patients in study EC410 were Caucasian, more non-Caucasian patients whereas in studies PNFP-
342/PNFP-027  (35%  and  16%,  respectively).  Patients  in  the  US  studies  PNFP-342/PNFP-027  had 
higher HbA1c and FPG compared to EC410. Within study EC410, baseline glycaemic variables were 
slightly higher in the pioglitazone group than the gliclazide group (Table3). 
In EC410, patients received the maximally tolerated dose of study drug. The mean doses at the end of 
dose titration were 38.9 mg pioglitazone and 211.7 mg gliclazide.  
In  study  EC410,  eligible  patients  had  to  be  receiving  companion  medication  (SU  or  metformin)  at 
greater  than  equal  to  50%  of  the  maximum  recommended  dose  or  at  their  maximum  tolerated  dose. 
Only  4%  of  patients  were  on  less  than  50%  the  maximum  recommended  dose  of  concomitant 
metformin. No such criteria were set in PNFP-342 and PNFP-027; however, the mean percentage of 
maximum recommended daily dosage of metformin was 61% in both PNFP-342 and PNFP-027, with 
similar percentages in the individual treatment groups within each study.  
Outcomes and estimation 
For all 3 studies the primary efficacy measure was the change in HbA1c from baseline to last value. 
These  data  are  presented  in  Figure  7  and  show  that  doses  of  30  mg  and  45 mg  pioglitazone  are 
effective  in  improving  glycaemia  when  concomitantly  administered  with  metformin.  The  data  also 
suggest  that  peak  effect  may  not  be  seen  until  6  months  treatment  as  in  PNFP-342  and  that  these 
effects are maintained to 2 years as observed in EC410. 
©EMEA 2006 
16/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Baseline to Endpoint ± 95% CI for HbA1c (%) and Fasting Plasma Glucose (mmol/ L) 
Glycaemic Control with pioglitazone in combination therapy: Change from 
HbA1c (%) 
Fasting Plasma Glucose (mmol/L) 
EC410 
PNFP-342 
Pio + Met 
Glic + Met 
45mg + Met 
30mg + Met 
PNFP-027 
Pbo + Met 
30mg + Met 
-1.50 
-1.00 
-0.50 
0.00
0.50
-4.00
-3.00
-2.00
-1.00 
0.00 
In all studies, glycaemic control was further improved following addition of pioglitazone to metformin 
therapy, at doses up to 45 mg daily. PNFP-027 was a short placebo-controlled study, which showed 
the benefit of adding 30 mg pioglitazone with a decrease from baseline in HbA1c at 16 weeks of 0.64% 
compared with an increase in placebo of 0.19%. In study PNFP-342, both 30 mg and 45 mg showed 
significant  decreases  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  of  0.80%  and  1.01%,  respectively,  after  24  weeks 
treatment.  This  level  of  improvement  was  similarly  found  in  study  EC410,  which  compared  the 
addition of pioglitazone with that of gliclazide and continued treatment for 2 years, at which time the 
decrease  from  baseline  was  maintained  with  pioglitazone  at  0.89%  but  had  showed  signs  of 
deterioration from maximal effect under gliclazide with a change from baseline at 2 years of 0.77%. 
Decreases in fasting plasma glucose ranged from 1.8 to 2.8 mmol/L in pioglitazone groups and were 
found  to  be  statistically  significantly  greater  than  those  observed  with  placebo  after  16 weeks  (2.12 
mmol/L) and gliclazide after 2 years (1.1 mmol/L). 
Glycaemic  responder  rates  are  summarised  in  Table  4  below  and  responders  were  defined  as  the 
following: 
EC410:  
PNFP-342 & PNFP-027:  
Reduction in HbA1c of greater than 0.6%. 
A HbA1c responder was any patient whose HbA1c reduced to less than 
or equal to 6.1% or decreased from baseline by greater than or equal 
to 0.6%. 
Table 4 
HbA1c and FPG Responder Rates to pioglitazone as combination therapy with 
existing SU/metformin treatment 
EC410 (a) 
PNFP-342 (b) 
PNFP-027 (b) 
Pio+Met 
Glic+Met 
30mg+Met 
45mg+Met 
Pbo+Met  
30mg+Met 
HbA1c responder rate (%) 
61.1 
57.1 
55.8 
63.3 
21.6 
54.0 
(a) HbA1c responders were classified as patients with a decrease from baseline of >0.6%. 
(b) HbA1c ≤6.1% or HbA1c decreased from baseline by ≥0.6%. 
Pio=pioglitazone, Met=metformin, Glic=gliclazide, 30 mg=30 mg pioglitazone, 45 mg=45 mg pioglitazone, Pbo=placebo. 
Responder  rates  demonstrate  that  pioglitazone,  as  combination  therapy  with  metformin,  effectively 
improved glycaemic control in approximately 60% of patients and that the proportion of patients that 
respond to therapy is comparable to that seen with the commonly used combination of metformin and 
sulphonylurea. 
In  Study  EC410,  the  time  courses  of  HbA1c  and  FPG  in  Figure  1  demonstrate  that  after  the  initial 
improvements, glycaemic control was better sustained with pioglitazone as add-on to metformin than 
by gliclazide, where despite the rapid initial effect, deterioration in control was apparent from Week 
16 onwards. In the gliclazide group, there was an increase in mean HbA1c of 0.70% from the nadir at 
Week 16 to Week 104. In contrast, the onset of effect was slower with pioglitazone with the nadir at 
©EMEA 2006 
17/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Week 24, but improvements were much better maintained thereafter with an increase in HbA1c of only 
0.22% from this point until Week 104.  
Figure 2 
Study  EC410:  Pioglitazone  and  Gliclazide  as  Add-On 
to  Metformin:  
Change  from  Baseline  ±  SEM  in  HbA1c  [%]  and  FPG  (mmol/L)  –  LOCF  –  ITT 
Population 
Week
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100 110
Pioglitazone
Gliclazide
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
n
i
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
0
-0.2
-0.4
-0.6
-0.8
-1
-1.2
-1.4
-1.6
)
L
/
l
o
m
m
(
G
P
F
n
i
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
0
-0.5
-1
-1.5
-2
-2.5
-3
Week
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100 110
Pioglitazone
Gliclazide
After  2  years  treatment  on  top  of  metformin,  decreases  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  were  0.89%  with 
pioglitazone and 0.77% with gliclazide. This represents a difference of 0.12% (-0.31, 0.07) between 
the groups. The reduction in HbA1c was reflected in the number of responders, with almost one third 
of patients in each treatment group achieving final HbA1c less than 7.0%. 
Analysis  of  changes  in  FPG  revealed  a  greater  decrease  from  baseline  with  pioglitazone  than  with 
gliclazide  (P<0.001  between  groups).  Furthermore,  analysis  of  the  per-protocol  (PP)  population 
included only those patients who received at least 72 weeks treatment with  study drug, and in these 
patients, the difference between groups in HbA1c change from baseline at Week 104 was statistically 
significant  (-1.07%  and  -0.76%  for  pioglitazone  and  gliclazide  respectively;  P=0.003).  Taken  as  a 
whole,  these  data  strongly  suggest  that  in  the  long  term,  pioglitazone  offers  better  sustainability  of 
glycaemic control then gliclazide as an adjunct to metformin. This was further supported in the current 
study by the coefficient of failure, which was lower with pioglitazone than with gliclazide (0.20%/yr 
and 0.44%/yr respectively; P<0.001). 
(cid:131) Discussion on clinical efficacy 
No clinical efficacy studies were conducted with the pioglitazone/metformin fixed-dose combination 
product.  Clinical  efficacy  of  the  fixed-dose  combination  product  is  based  on  results  of  concomitant 
administration of the two drugs, clinical trials with the individual components and literature data for 
metformin.  Coadministration  studies  of  pioglitazone  with  metformin  encompassed  two  short-term 
studies with 16 to 24 weeks’ duration and a 104-week active-controlled long-term study. In all three 
studies,  glycaemic  control  was  improved  following  addition  of  pioglitazone  to  existing  metformin 
therapy.  
Pioglitazone  at  doses  of  30mg  (PNFP-027  and  PNFP-342)  and  45mg  (PNFP-342)  and  up  to  45mg 
(EC410) in combination with metformin also improved insulinaemia, insulin processing, as well as the 
abnormalities  associated  with  diabetic  dyslipidaemia,  namely  elevated  triglycerides,  low  HDL-
cholesterol, and a preponderance of small dense LDL particles. 
There  are  no  specific  dose  titration  studies  to  determine  the  optimum  pioglitazone  dose  to  be 
combined with metformin. Doses lower than 30 mg, of pioglitazone (e g 15 mg), as approved in the 
pioglitazone SPC, have not been studied in combination with metformin, they have only been tested in 
combination  with  SU.  This  is  taken  into  consideration  in  the  posology  section  of  the  SPC,  where  a 
dose  of  30  mg  pioglitazone  (together  with  1700  mg  metformin)  per  day,  taken  as  two  tablets,  is 
recommended. 
Pioglitazone  has  been  dosed  in  all  these  studies  once  a  day  in  accordance  with  the  currently 
recommended  posology  section  of  the  pioglitazone  SPC.  However,  the  FDC  tablet  is  to  be  taken  in 
two divided doses due to the need to divide the metformin dose. To address this concern, the applicant 
provided during the evaluation evidence that pioglitazone 30 mg bid and 60 mg od results in a similar 
©EMEA 2006 
18/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overall exposure, and supplementary data from small studies with pioglitazone given in divided doses. 
Thus, the CHMP accepted the interchangeable efficacy of a pioglitazone dose when given divided in 
two doses instead of the same dose once a day, for this application. 
Clinical safety 
Safety information on pioglitazone and metformin fixed dose combination therapy is derived from 3 
studies in which pioglitazone and metformin were co-administered (EC410, PNFP-0342, and PNFP-
027). These studies have been previously submitted and assessed by the CHMP. 
(cid:131)  Patient exposure 
The  clinical  programme  for  this  pioglitazone  variation  comprises  3  completed  controlled  clinical 
studies.  A  total  of  1,785  patients  were  enrolled  in  these  studies.  Of  this  total,  1,312  received 
pioglitazone as combination therapy with metformin. The remaining patients received metformin plus 
a comparator agent (either gliclazide or placebo). More than 70% of pioglitazone patients included in 
EC410 completed 2 years of treatment. The characteristics are shown in Table 1 (section efficacy). 
The  duration  of  treatment  ranged  from  16  to  104  weeks  in  the  combination  therapy  studies.  Dosing 
regimen for pioglitazone was 30 or 45 mg once daily (od), with the exception of the first portion of 
EC410, which had a forced dose-titration period during which subjects could initiate treatment at 15 
mg od. 
As would be expected in a type 2 diabetic population, there were high incidences of vascular disorders 
(mainly hypertension), other metabolic and nutritional disorders, cardiac disorders, and eye disorders. 
As  is  usual  in  a  relatively  elderly  population,  musculoskeletal  disorders  (mainly  arthritis)  were  also 
commonly noted as concomitant diseases. 
There was a slight imbalance between pioglitazone and gliclazide patients in the incidence of cardiac 
disorders (mainly angina) in EC410 (pioglitazone 19.2%, gliclazide 13.4%) and vascular disorders 
(pioglitazone  68.1%,  gliclazide  62.6%).  The  use  of  concomitant  medication  reflected  the  reported 
concomitant diseases.  
(cid:131) Adverse events 
The data show that the number of patients with at least 1 AE, withdrawing because of AEs, with an 
SAE, or dying in the course of the studies were similar in pioglitazone-treated groups and comparator 
groups. 
©EMEA 2006 
19/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Incidence of Most Common Adverse Events (≥3% of Patients in Any Treatment 
Group) – Combination Therapy Studies 
Consistent  across  the  3  studies,  pioglitazone  was  associated  with  higher  reporting  of  oedema.  The 
terms  oedema  not  otherwise  specified,  aggravated  oedema,  and  oedema  peripheral  were  grouped  in 
EC410,  and  the  incidence  of  the  grouped  term  was  6.3%  and  2.2%  for  pioglitazone  and  gliclazide, 
respectively. 
Weight increase was reported as an AE for pioglitazone when added to metformin in 3.5% of patients 
compared  to  2.2%  with  gliclazide  in  EC410.  No  other  AEs  for  pioglitazone  and  metformin 
combination showed any consistent excess over gliclazide and metformin combination. The incidence 
of weight gain was slightly lowered when pioglitazone 30 mg was added to metformin in study PNFP-
027  compared  to  EC410  1.8%  vs.  2.2%  respectively);  this  may  be  a  result  of  the  shorter  treatment 
duration  in  study  PNFP-027.  A  slightly  higher  incidence  rate  for  weight  gain  was  noted  in  the 
pioglitazone  plus  metformin  group  in  PNFP-342  compared  to  either  pioglitazone  30  mg  plus 
metformin groups in studies EC410 and PNFP-027. The highest rates were noted for the pioglitazone 
45 mg plus metformin group in PNFP-342 (6.7%). However, no subject in the pioglitazone 45 mg plus 
metformin group discontinued study drug dosing because of weight gain. 
When  pioglitazone  was  added  to  a  standard  treatment  with  metformin,  there  was  an  increased 
incidence  of  peripheral  oedema,  weight  gain,  arthralgia  and  headache  as  compared  to  placebo  plus 
metformin. 
(cid:131)  Serious adverse events and deaths 
No  deaths  were  reported  in  the  PNFP-342  or  PNFP-027  combination  therapy  studies.  In  the  2-year 
study EC410, 2 patients (0.6%) in each treatment group died during the study. The causes of deaths 
were  in  the  main  cardiovascular  or  cerebrovascular  in  aetiology,  as  might  be  expected  in  a  diabetic 
population. There was no death of unusual or unexpected aetiology suggestive of any toxic effects of 
pioglitazone. 
In PNFP-027, when pioglitazone was added to metformin, there were higher rate of SAEs (4.2%) than 
when placebo was added to metformin (1.3%). However, it should be noted that patient numbers for 
these latter 2 groups were rather low at about 160 patients per group, and therefore point estimates of 
rates were liable to large variation. Similar reporting rates of SAEs were observed with the addition of 
©EMEA 2006 
20/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
both 30 mg pioglitazone (4.4%) and 45 mg pioglitazone (3.8%) to metformin in the 24-week study, 
PNFP-342. 
In the 2-year EC410 study, overall SAE reporting rates for pioglitazone and gliclazide when added to 
metformin were similar (11.4% with pioglitazone vs. 11.2% with gliclazide). The incidence of cardiac 
events  was  higher  for  pioglitazone  in  EC410  than  for  gliclazide  when  either  drug  was  added  to 
metformin. 
(cid:131) Laboratory findings 
Placebo-controlled studies showed that during treatment with pioglitazone there were small decreases 
in haemoglobin and haematocrit compared to placebo. The decreases were in the order of about 4% 
relative to baseline values. This is mentioned in the SPC section 4.4. Whilst similar changes were seen 
with  pioglitazone  in  EC410,  gliclazide  also  showed  decreases  in  haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  and  red 
blood cells albeit slightly less than those observed with pioglitazone. 
Similarly to that seen during the MAA, study results submitted in the 2002 and 2004 safety summaries 
showed  no  evidence  of  an  increased  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  with  pioglitazone  relative  to  comparator 
agents.  These  data  show  that  effects  observed  at  1  year  are  sustained  to  2  years  and  still  evident. 
Analyses of changes in individual patients showed no excess in changes of liver enzymes to >3 ULN 
with pioglitazone compared with comparator treatments. 
(cid:131) Physical findings related to safety 
Controlled  trials  have  shown  weight  increases  with  pioglitazone  treatment.  The  greatest  increase  in 
weight  was  seen  in  insulin  combination  trials  and  the  least  with  metformin  combination  therapy.  A 
study  investigating  effects  of  pioglitazone  on  body  composition  had  demonstrated  that  weight  gain 
mainly  could  be  explained  by  increases  in  subcutaneous  fat.  Pioglitazone  also  seemed  to  induce  a 
redistribution of intra-abdominal fat to the subcutaneous fat compartment. 
Table 6 Mean ± SD Changes in Weight from Baseline to End of Treatment 
After 2 years, in EC410, weight had further increased in pioglitazone groups, but the rate of weight 
gain was slower during a second year of treatment. At the end of 2 years, pioglitazone-treated patients 
had mean gained 2.3 kg in comparison to 1.1 kg with gliclazide. This represents a mean weight gain 
over  2  years  of  less  than  5%  with  pioglitazone  treatment.  Some  patients  had  still  lost  weight  with 
pioglitazone as shown by the range of weight changes and the median values. 
(cid:131) Adverse events by organ system or syndrome 
Cardiovascular 
In  the  2-year  study,  which  used  gliclazide  as  a  comparator,  the  incidence  of  cardiac  events  was 
generally  lower  when  gliclazide  was  added  to  metformin  than  with  pioglitazone  (1.8%  vs.  3.8%  for 
SAEs,  respectively,  and 3.8%  vs.  7.9%  for  AEs,  respectively.  Upon  inspection  of  individual  events, 
the main difference appeared to be a lower incidence of angina with gliclazide. In this study, there was 
a  higher  proportion  of  patients  with  cardiac  and  vascular  conditions  at  baseline  in  the  pioglitazone 
group.  Reporting  rates  for  episodes  of  heart  failure  in  the  placebo  and  active  comparator  controlled 
trials showed no excess in pioglitazone groups compared to non-pioglitazone groups. 
©EMEA 2006 
21/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oedema 
Oedema occurs with pioglitazone treatment in 6% to 8% of patients treated over a 1-year period. In by 
far the  majority of AE reports, such oedema was reported as mild or moderate and only very rarely 
caused withdrawal of treatment with pioglitazone. Only one patient withdrew for oedema in EC410. 
Although reporting of oedema occurred more frequently during the first few months of treatment, it 
was  also  reported  later  during  treatment.  With  continued  treatment,  in  some  cases  oedema  resolved. 
Oedema was not associated with development of heart failure. 
Anaemia 
Although pioglitazone treatment is known to be associated with small decreases in mean haemoglobin 
and  haemotocrit,  the  reporting  rates  of  anaemia  as  an  AE  were  similar  with  pioglitazone  and  active 
comparator treatments. In the course of long-term (2 years) treatment with pioglitazone, anaemia in as 
an AE was reported for 1.6% of patients treated with pioglitazone and 0.6% of patients treated with 
gliclazide;  1  pioglitazone  treated  patient  discontinued  study  drug  dosing  because  of  anaemia.  The 
clinical trial results do not suggest that pioglitazone is associated with large decreases in haemoglobin 
and haematocrit. Furthermore, there is no evidence from AE data from the trials of any toxic effect of 
pioglitazone on bone marrow. 
(cid:131) Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  rate  of  AEs  causing  discontinuation  from  the  study  are  shown  in  the  table  below  for  those 
preferred terms that occurred in at least 3% of patients in any treatment group. 
Table 7  
Most Common (≥3%) Adverse Events Causing Discontinuation of Study Drug 
The  proportion  of  patients  discontinuing  for  any  individual  AEs  was  low  and  the  rate  of 
discontinuations  did  not  increase  over  time  in  the  2-year  study.  Hyperglycaemia  was  the  most 
common AE leading to discontinuation among pioglitazone-treated patients across these studies, with 
oedema  peripheral  occurring  at  the  same  rate  as  hyperglycaemia  in  studies  EC410  and  PNFP-027. 
Hypoglycaemia  was  most  common  amongst  gliclazide  patients.  Weight  gain  and  oedema  rarely 
caused  discontinuation  with  pioglitazone  in  the  short-term  combination  therapy  studies,  and  only  1 
patient in the long-term EC410 study discontinued because of oedema (oedema peripheral). 
Vital signs, physical findings, and other observations related to safety 
For  all  studies,  administration of  the  pioglitazone/metformin  fixed-dose  combination  tablets  resulted 
in very minor changes in vital sign parameters, and these minor changes were similar to those noted 
following the coadministration of the individual commercial tablets.  
Three subjects (OPIMET-004) had physical examination findings at Post treatment/Early Termination 
that  were  not  present  at  Baseline  or  Screening.  These  findings  were  reported  as  adverse  events  of 
pharyngolaryngeal pain, oropharyngeal swelling, hypersensitivity, face oedema, and pruritus.  
For  all  studies,  a  standard  12-lead  ECG  was  recorded  for  each  subject  at  the  Screening  and  Post 
treatment/Early  Termination  Visits.  All  12-lead  ECG  recordings  were  interpreted  by  a  qualified 
physician as normal or abnormal. Clinical significance was assessed for all abnormal recordings. For 
all  studies,  few  subjects  had  12-lead  ECG  recordings  interpreted  as  abnormal  and  none  were 
considered clinically significant or associated with an adverse event. 
©EMEA 2006 
22/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  unexpected  AE,  laboratory  abnormalities,  changes  in  vital  signs  and  physical  finding  were  seen 
during bioequivalence trials (studies OPIMET-004, -005 and –006). As expected, gastrointestinal AEs 
were  the  main  tolerability  limitation,  although  these  AEs  were  mild  and  do  not  lead  to  treatment 
discontinuation.  The  limited  provided  data  do  not  suggest  a  different  tolerability  of  the  fixed-dose 
formulation to be marketed as compared to commercial tablets given separately.  
(cid:131)  Post marketing experience 
It is estimated that since the first launch in the US in July 1999 until 31 July 2004 pioglitazone has 
been  cumulatively  prescribed  to  a  total  of  4,677,000  patients  in  the  U.S.,  637,000  patients  in  Japan 
since introduction of the product in December 1999 and 330,000 patients in Europe since introduction 
of the product in November 2000.  
A  summary  of  the  post-marketing  data  as  presented  in  the  ISS  in  2002  and  then  the  cumulatively 
reported  events  up  to  31  July  2004  as  presented  in  the  6th  to  10th  PSUR  have  been  provided.  In 
addition  to  routine  safety  surveillance  performed  within  the  company,  a  pharmacovigilance  plan 
including  a  number  of  special  studies  and  investigations  to  confirm  the  safety  of  pioglitazone  is  in 
place  (see  section  Risk  Management  Plan).  Overall,  the  safety  profile  of  pioglitazone  as  judged  by 
ADR  reporting  from  an  estimated  3  million  or  so  patients  from  the  market  up  to  Feb  2002  plus  2 
million or further from then up to 31 July 2004 were reassuring and confirmed the safety profile as 
seen  in  clinical  trials.  No  unexpected  toxicity  of  pioglitazone  was  identified  during  postmarketing 
experience in these reports.  
Recently, 35 cases of  macular oedema  have been noted in post marketing reports in patients treated 
with pioglitazone. The information provided by these reports is limited although many cases appear to 
be associated with peripheral oedema. Most of the reports are from the United States in patients with 
more advanced disease. Concomitant insulin was used in 14 of 29 of these cases with no information 
in 6 cases. Pre-existing eye disease was noted in 18 cases with macular oedema in 6 cases, diabetic 
retinopathy in another 4 cases and no eye disease in one case. It is unclear whether or not there is a 
direct  association  between  pioglitazone  and  macular  oedema  but  prescribers  should  be  alert  to  the 
possibility  of  macular  oedema  if  patients  report  disturbances  in  visual  acuity  and  appropriate 
ophthalmologic referral should be considered. This is reflected in the SPC (sections 4.4 and 4.8) and 
the  Package  Leaflet  (sections  2  and  4).  This  information  is  in  line  with  the  identical  information 
introduced into the SPC and PL for Actos via a type II variation adopted 1.6.2006.  
On  the  market,  about  30%  of  pioglitazone  therapy  is  in  free  combination  with  Metformin,  and  only 
about 30% are as monotherapy. From the spontaneous reports from the market and as observed in the 
clinical trials with combination therapy as outlined in detail in this ISS, there appears to be no major 
difference in the ADR profile. The only emerging difference  seen is the increase of reports of heart 
failure,  when  pioglitazone  is  given  in  combination  with  insulin,  and  the  increase  of  reports  of 
hypoglycaemia when pioglitazone is given in combination with sulfonylureas. The combination with 
Metformin however, does not yield a shift in ADR profile in the reports from the market. 
(cid:131) Discussion on clinical safety 
The use of Pioglitazone in combination with Metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
was granted with the first marketing authorisation application for pioglitazone, based on the results of 
one placebo-controlled clinical trial (PNPF–027). Later on, two additional combination therapy 
clinical trials were performed (Studies PNPF-342 and EC410), confirming previous results and 
conclusions and providing information on longer-term use of pioglitazone with metformin. A total of 
1,785 patients were enrolled in these studies. Of these, 1,312 received pioglitazone as combination 
therapy with metformin. When pioglitazone was added to an established regimen with metformin 
given at the maximum tolerated doses, only those specific AEs related to pioglitazone therapy such as 
oedema and weight gain were reported in a higher rate in this group of patients than in patients treated 
with other comparators added to metformin based regimen (e.g.. glicazide, placebo). The incidence of 
oedema in these studies ranged from 2.9% to 11.3% across studies, which was within the expected 
range. Weight increase was seen in up to 3.5% of patients treated with pioglitazone+metformin as 
compared to 2.2% in patients treated with glicazide+metformin. 
©EMEA 2006 
23/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety profile of pioglitazone and metformin in combination was the sum of the AE profiles of 
each product given as monotherapy, with gastrointestinal disorders, weight gain and oedema being the 
most commonly reported. Neither unexpected AEs nor worsening of the individual AE profiles were 
seen in any of the clinical trials performed with this combination.   
Since the MAA in EU, in November 2002, PSURs have not identified any concern related to a 
possible interaction leading to a worsening of the safety profile of these products when given in 
combination, which is relevant considering that up to 30% of pioglitazone use is in combination.  
In addition to the above described safety profile of the combination of both active principles, data 
from the proposed fixed-dose tablet have been provided (studies OPIMET-004, -005, and –006). The 
limited available data in healthy volunteers do not suggest a different tolerability of the fixed-dose 
formulation as compared to commercial tablets given separately.  There are no data of administration 
of this FD tablet to diabetic patients. Although diabetics may suffer from specific gastrointestinal 
disturbances, it is not expected to result in different tolerability of the new FDC tablet as compared to 
the old tablets. 
Remaining concerns regarding long-term safety and lack of outcome data with thiazolidinediones in 
general were not addressed by this data. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan
©EMEA 2006 
24/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern 
Hepatic dysfunction 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
Heart failure 
Weight gain / peripheral oedema 
Neoplasia 
Macular oedema 
PSURs 
2.  Annual review and report on Hepato-biliary 
events 
3.  Results from completed hepatic safety study in 
pioglitazone 
4.  Trend analysis on frequency of reporting 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
PSURs 
2.  Analysis from ongoing clinical trials 
3.  Final analysis of PROactive long-term trial 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
PSURs 
2.  Results from PROactive study 
3.  Analysis from ongoing clinical trials 
4.  Pioglitazone clinical trial  to investigate 
mechanisms 
5.  Review of ADR reports to assess compliance 
with SPC recommendations 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
PSURs 
2.  Analysis from ongoing clinical trials 
3.  Final study report from PROactive study and long 
term follow up 
4.  Analyses from KPNC cohort study 
5.  Non-clinical study in male rats 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
PSURs 
2.  Pioglitazone clinical trial to investigate 
mechanisms 
Lactic acidosis 
1.  Routine pharmacovigilance including review in 
PSURs 
2.  Review of ADR reports to assess compliance 
with SPC recommendations 
 Trend analysis on frequency of reporting 
3. 
Proposed / established risk minimisation activities 
Contraindication for use in hepatic impairment in section 4.3 of the 
SPC 
 Precautions and recommendations for assessing ALT levels in 
section 4.4 of the SPC 
Elevated hepatic function tests and hepatocellular dysfunction in 
section 4.8 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of the SPC 
Precautions and recommendations in section 4.4 of the SPC 
Precautions and recommendations in section 4.4 of the SPC 
Statement of finding of bladder hyperplasia / neoplasia in rats in 
section 5.3 of the SPC 
RMP, risk minimisation for macular oedema: Warning in Section 4.4 
of the SPC for macular oedema and decreased visual acuity; 
mentioning of macular oedema as ADR in Section 4.8 of SPC 
Contraindication in section 4.3 of the SPC 
Precautions and recommendations for pre-disposing risk factors, and 
early presenting features in section 4.4 of the SPC 
©EMEA 2006 
Page 25/27 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The pharmacology of pioglitazone and metformin has been investigated for each drug separately. No 
preclinical studies of the combination were conducted, which was found to be acceptable by the 
CHMP. Overall the general pharmacology studies corroborate the information previously available for 
the individual components and support the combined use.  
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, the rat was the most relevant species for non-clinical efficacy 
and safety studies. In male rats, pioglitazone caused, as a well-known effect, an elevation of the rate of 
bladder tumours. The relevance of this finding is unknown, and this information has been included in 
the SPC. 
Efficacy 
fixed-dose  combination  product, 
The efficacy of Competact taken as a tablet of 15 mg pioglitazone and 850 mg metformin twice daily 
was  sufficiently  demonstrated.  In  the  absence  of  clinical  efficacy  studies  conducted  with  the 
pioglitazone/metformin 
this  has  been  demonstrated  by 
bioequivalence studies and bridging data from clinical trials with the individual components. 
The tablet strength and posology approved corresponds to 30 mg pioglitazone and 1700 mg metformin 
per  day,  respectively.  A  second  tablet  strength  of  15  mg  pioglitazone  and  500  mg  metformin  was 
retracted by the applicant in April 2006, thus resolving concerns by the CHMP that the resulting daily 
dose of 1000 mg metformin per day may result in underdosing of this component. The single tablet 
strength available does not allow for dose titration, which is reflected in the SPC. 
Safety 
The  safety  profile  of  pioglitazone  and  metformin  in  combination  was  the  sum  of  the  adverse  event 
profiles  of  each  product  given  as  monotherapy,  with  gastrointestinal  disorders,  weight  gain  and 
oedema being the most commonly reported. Neither unexpected AEs nor worsening of the individual 
AE profiles were seen in any of the clinical trials performed with this combination. Except for reports 
of macular oedema, no change in the safety profile was derived from the post marketing experience 
with  pioglitazone  either,  where  usage  is  in  part  as  a  combination  with  metformin.  From  the  safety 
database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have been included in 
the SPC. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered 
that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
-  User consultation 
The applicant committed to perform readability testing of the English Patient Information Leaflet and 
to report back within two months of marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2006 
Page 26/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
The  fixed  dose  combination  of  pioglitazone  and  metformin  was  considered  justified  by  the  CHMP 
having the benefit of simplification of therapy thus enhancing compliance with treatment. Taking into 
account that efficacy has been shown sufficiently for the strength of 15 mg pioglitazone and 850 mg 
metformin  taken  twice  daily,  the  benefit/risk  ratio  was  considered  positive  by  the  CHMP,  provided 
that  patients  are  titrated  with  pioglitazone  to  the  recommended  dose  of  30mg  daily  before  being 
switched to Competact. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Competact  in  the  treatment  of  type  2  diabetes  mellitus 
patients,  particularly  overweight  patients,  who  are  unable  to  achieve  sufficient  glycaemic  control  at 
their  maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone, was favourable and therefore recommended 
the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2006 
27/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
