Summary of risk management plan for Competact 
(Pioglitazone/metformin FDC) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Competact. The RMP details important 
risks of Competact, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Competact risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Competact’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Competact should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Competact should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
Competact RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Competact  is  authorized  for  the  second  line  treatment  of  adult  type  II  diabetes  mellitus  patients, 
particularly  overweight  patients,  who  are  unable  to  achieve  sufficient  glycaemic  control  at  their 
maximally tolerated dose of oral metformin alone. 
Further information about the evaluation of pioglitazone and Competact’s benefits can be found in the 
relevant EPARs, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/competact   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Competact, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Competact's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Competact is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Competact are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of Competact. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of 
this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Pioglitazone 
None 
Metformin 
Lactic acidosis 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Lactic acidosis  
Evidence for linking the risk 
Increase of lactic acid in the blood is a rare but serious 
to the medicine 
reaction which may occur in less than 1 case per 10,000 
patients. The reported mortality is high (42% to 50% of 
patients). Reported cases of lactic acidosis in patients on 
metformin have occurred mainly in diabetic patients with 
significant kidney disease. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients with acute alcohol intoxication, liver problems, 
severe kidney problems, and the use of iodinated contrast 
agents (these are used for some X-ray procedures), sepsis 
and dehydration. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.8 and PL section 4 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.3 and PL section 2 and 3 prohibiting 
use in patients with acute metabolic acidosis, diabetic 
pre-coma, or severe renal failure.; Recommended 
monitoring of renal function and recommended dosing in 
elderly and patients with renal impairment. 
SmPC 4.4 & PL section 2 include special warnings and 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
precautions before initiating use in patients with risk 
factors for renal impairment; monitoring specific 
signs/symptoms of acute worsening of renal function and 
increased risk for lactic acidosis and recommended 
discontinuation of Competact in specific clinical situations. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Not applicable 
Additional 
None  
pharmacovigilance activities 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Competact. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Competact.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
