SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Comtess. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 January 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Parkinson's  disease  (PD)  is  a  neurodegenerative,  slowly  progressive  disorder  characterised  by 
bradykinesia,  resting  tremor,  rigidity  and  postural  reflex  impairment  with  associated  characteristic 
eosinophilic  cytoplasmatic inclusions (Lewy bodies). The Lewy bodies are  found in specific regions 
of  the  CNS  including  the  substantia  nigra  and  locus  coeruleus.  The  neuronal  loss  results  in  a 
significant  decrease  of  the  brain  dopamine  levels  which  becomes  symptomatic  over  a  certain 
threshold. Severe disability or death may be expected in 25% of the patients within 5 years, in 65% of 
the patients within 10 years and in 80% of the patients within 15 years of onset. 
The incidence of Parkinson's disease is estimated 4.5-16/100.000 persons/year. Parkinson's disease is 
rare before 50 years of age. Incidence rates increase with age from 5/100.000 in the 45-49 age group 
up  to  90/100.000  in  the  75+  age  group  and,  on  average,  2  to  3  %  of  the  population  in  the  western 
world will develop PD.  
The  cause  of the  disease is still unknown. PD develops due to loss of  neuronal  functions within the 
basal  ganglia  and  the  substantia  nigra  of  the  brain.  Specifically,  there  is  a  marked  deficiency  in  the 
nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system due to degeneration of nigral DA neurons.  
The  pharmacological  intervention  of  Parkinson's  disease  is  symptomatic  at  the  moment  and  the 
improvement  of  an  impaired  dopaminergic  neurotransmission  forms  the  central  strategy  for  the 
treatment  of  PD.  Recently,  research  has  turned  to  developing  neuroprotective  therapies  in  order  to 
reduce the rate  of progression of the underlying  disease. Non  pharmacological interventions such as 
deep brain structure stimulation and neuronal grafts have an investigational status.  
called  L-dopa+.  Other 
The standard treatment of PD consists of the intake of L-dopa, a dopamine precursor, with carbidopa 
or benserazide, peripheral aromatic amino-acid decarboxylase inhibitors, to prevent the breakdown of 
L-dopa  to  dopamine  outside  the  brain  and  thereby  reducing  peripheral  unwanted  effects,  in  a  fixed 
improve 
treatments 
combination 
neurotransmission at the dopamine receptor level; antimuscarine drugs to reduce the relative excess of 
striatal  cholinergic  activity  that  accompanies  dopamine  deficiency;  monoamine-oxidase-B  inhibitors 
to inhibit breakdown of dopamine and amantadine, which has shown a modest effect on the Parkinson 
symptoms. Symptomatic relief is often transient as neuronal loss continues or tolerance may develop. 
Co-medication with other symptomatic drugs is often given to reduce the dose of the L-dopa, thereby 
increasing treatment tolerability. 
include  dopamine-agonist 
to 
The response to L-dopa is generally stable during the initial years of treatment. However, due to the 
progressive degeneration of the DA system, the neuronal buffer capacity is believed to be reduced. At 
that  stage,  the  patient  may  switch  within  seconds  from  a  state  of  relatively  good  mobility  to  one  of 
severe parkinsonism, giving rise to the term  “ON-OFF” phenomenon. This end-of-dose deterioration 
implies a shortening of the duration of action of L-dopa. OFF periods tend to become longer and to set 
in abruptly. ON periods are often combined with dyskinesias and/or other movement disorders.  
The  fixed  combination  L-dopa+  improves  the  brain  bioavailability  of  L-dopa,  through  peripheral 
dopa-decarboxylase  inhibition  (DDCI).  However,  following  dopa-decarboxylase  inhibition,  more 
L-dopa  is  metabolised  by  the  enzyme  catechol-O-methyl  transferase  (COMT)  in  the  gastrointestinal 
tract,  liver  and  kidney,  resulting  in  high  circulating  levels  of  3-O-methyldopa  (3-OMD).  This 
metabolite  has been reported to accumulate  on both sides  of the blood-brain barrier  during L-dopa+ 
treatment.  Several  studies  suggest  that  3-OMD  may  reduce  the  efficacy  of  L-dopa  but  this  has  not 
been  conclusively  demonstrated.  High  erythrocyte  COMT  activity  and  high  plasma  3-OMD/L-dopa 
ratio have been reported to be associated with poor response to L-dopa treatment. Thus, concomitant 
inhibition of COMT will reduce the metabolism of L-dopa, increase the amount of L-dopa available 
for conversion into DA in the brain and should improve the efficacy of L-dopa+. 
1/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
Entacapone is an orally active, nitrocathecol derivative with a selective and reversible inhibitory effect 
on COMT. By inhibition of COMT, the breakdown of L-dopa is decreased and thus, the half life of 
L-dopa  is  prolonged.  Entacapone  is  indicated  in  combination  with  standard  preparations  of 
L-dopa/benserazide or L-dopa/carbidopa for use in patients with Parkinson’s disease with end-of-dose 
motor  fluctuations,  who  cannot  be  stabilised  on  L-dopa  therapy.  The  proposed  dose  in  adults  is 
200 mg with each L-dopa+ dose up to a maximum of 2000 mg/day. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Entacapone is an orally active nitrocathecol derivative COMT inhibitor, indicated for use as an adjunct 
in the treatment of PD. It is presented as Comtess film coated tablets 200 mg. Different pack sizes are 
proposed: 30, 60, 100 and 350 tablets in white HDPE plastic jars with tamper proof HDPE closures. 
Composition 
The  film-coated  tablets  are  made  with  standard  core  and  film-coat  excipients.  The  active  substance 
comprises  29%  of  the  core  weight.  The  containers  proposed  are  white  HD-polyethylene  plastic  jars 
with white tamper-proof HD-polyethylene closures. The containers are further packed into cardboard 
boxes.  
Satisfactory  detail  has  been  provided  on  the  development  of  the  commercial  formulation  and 
bioavailability studies. 
Entacapone is “practically insoluble” in water. It exists in two stereoisomeric forms: the (E) = trans-
isomer and the (Z) = cis-isomer. The (E)-isomer was originally chosen because of a more favourable 
synthetic route. It has been used throughout the clinical and toxicological programme and the amount 
of (Z)-isomer has been controlled to be less than 0.5%. Both isomers are pharmacologically active as 
COMT-inhibitor and  have an  equivalent  activity. The acute toxicity  of the two isomers seems to be 
similar. 
The  specific  particle  size  of  the  active  substance  has  been  chosen  because  of  the  low  solubility  of 
entacapone in water. The particle size is controlled by the validated laser diffraction method. 
All batches have met the acceptable specification limits. For the in vitro dissolution testing, the most 
selective  medium  was  the  phosphate  buffer  pH  5.5,  which  allows  complete  dissolution  within  a 
reasonable  time.  The  bioequivalence  of  the  products  used  in  the  studies  has  been  tested  in  all 
significant  steps  of  the  product  development  process.  The  bioavailability  studies  proved  no  marked 
difference  in  Cmax,  tmax  and  AUC  values  between  tablets.  All  preparations  behaved  as  immediate 
release tablets. 
Method of preparation 
The batch sizes of industrial scale are 1 000 000 tablets.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  entacapone  200  mg  tablets  includes  mixing  with  intra-granular 
excipients,granulation,  mixing  the  granulate  with  extra-granular  excipients  compression  and  film-
coating. The in-process controls and limits proposed are satisfactory. The manufacturing process has 
been adequately validated.  
Control of starting materials 
The  specification  of  the  active  substance  includes  tests  for  identity  by  IR,  UV  and  HPLC,  related 
substances, assay, particle size, residual solvents, water, sulphate ash bromide and heavy metals. The 
impurity profile of entacapone is reviewed in accordance with the ICH guideline CPMP/142/95. The 
main  impurity  is  Z-isomer  of  entacapone  (impurity  A)  which  has  been  found  0.04-0.2%  in  some 
batches  or  not  detected.  Impurity  B  has  been  found  0.05-0.24%  (three  batches)  or  not  detected  (14 
batches).  Impurity  C  has  been  found  <0.04%  (one  batch),  0.13%  (one  batch)  or  not  detected  (15 
batches). Hydrogen bromide is a potential residual reagent and it has been found <0.01%, which limit 
is  established  to  ensure  that  no  significant  amounts  of  HBr  remains  in  the  product.  Acetic  acid  has 
been found 0.02-0.2% and toluene <0.01-≤0,07%. No detectable amount of benzene was found in the 
batches studied, i.e. <0.5 p.p.m. 
2/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
Entacapone is synthesised in a 3-step process. In the final step crude entacapone, which is a mixture of 
(E)- and (Z)-isomers, is crystallised from acetic acid and toluene. Details are presented in the DMF. 
The  structure  of  entacapone  has  been  proved  by  elemental  analysis  and  interpreted  UV/VIS-,  IR-, 
MS-,  1H-  and  13C-NMR  spectra.  Two  polymorphic  forms  have  been  found,  polyform  I  and  II.  The 
control of polymorphic forms done by x-ray powder diffraction method is considered to be sufficient 
and  no  quality  or  efficacy  issues  arise  from  the  existence  of  the  two  polymorphs.  The  current 
manufacturing process yields only the form 1. In general, analytical methods have been well validated. 
The  excipients  comply  with  PhEur.,  B.P.  or  USP-NF  requirements.  The  colorants  comply  with  the 
EEC requirements.  
Standard packaging materials are used, and testing is satisfactory. 
Control tests on the finished product 
The specification includes standard tests for this type of dosage form. Results of comparative studies 
of  old  and  new  modified  dissolution  tests  and  between  the  automated  and  manual  UV  method  are 
presented. The stability of entacapone in the dissolution medium was shown to be good for one hour. 
Stability  of  standard  solutions  has  been  presented.  Batch  analytical  results  provided  for  three 
commercial-scale lots comply with the specifications. 
Stability 
Active substance 
Long-term stability studies were performed on 14 lots of entacapone drug substance. Stability data of 
60 months for three lots, 48 months for one lot, 36 months for three lots and 18 months for one lot are 
available  (at  warehousing  temperature).  The  results  show  that  no  special  change  was  noted  in  the 
appearance, loss on drying, pH and the  content of related substances/(Z)-isomer after 18-60 months. 
The  content  of  entacapone  remained  within  the  limits  of  specifications.  The  stability  studies  for  six 
batches stored at 25°C/60% RH have currently 3-12 months data available depending on the batches. 
The  results  show  that  parameters  studied  meet  the  proposed  specification  of  entacapone  drug 
substance. Seven batches were studied for 6 months under the accelerated conditions recommended by 
ICH and no changes were noted in the parameters studied. 
Finished Product 
Stability  data  of  36  months  for  two  lots  stored  at  RT/75%  RH,  4  months  for  four  lots  stored  at 
+25°C/60%  RH  and  shorter  times  for  eight  other  lots  stored  in  different  storage  conditions,  are 
currently available. The results of these studies are within the specifications proposed. Also the results 
of  photostability  and  repeated  freezing-thawing  tests  show  that  entacapone  tablets  are  neither  light 
sensitive or sensitive to the repeated freezing thawing. Based on the data provided, a 3-year shelf life 
for entacapone tablets in white HDPE plastic jars is supported. 
During  the  evaluation  phase  the  applicant  submitted  additional  upon  request,  which  was  considered 
satisfactory  by  the  reviewers.  However  the  applicant  should  also  provide  results  of  the  planned 
stability studies for the drug substance and the finished product according to the agreed timetable. 
3. 
Part III: toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Effects related to proposed indications 
In  vitro  and  ex  vivo,  entacapone  and  its  Z-isomer  showed  a  potent  inhibitory  effect  on  soluble  and 
membrane bound  and COMT  with IC50-values in vitro ranging  from 0.01µM (rat brain) to 0.16µM 
(rat  liver).  Ex  vivo  tests,  after  oral  (10  mg/kg)  or  iv  administration  of  entacapone,  confirmed  the 
inhibition of soluble -COMT activity (from 76% in the kidneys to 98% in the duodenum) by the drug 
with  good  correlation to the IC 50-values  obtained in in vitro tests. The  only  exception  was  COMT 
activity in the brain (12%), which reflects poor penetration of entacapone into the CNS. 
Entacapone  did  not  inhibit  any  other  enzymes  synthesising  or  metabolising  catecholamines.  After 
single oral dose administration in rats (0.3-30 mg/kg) serum L-dopa concentrations were significantly 
higher than if L-dopa (50 mg/kg)/carbidopa (50 mg/kg) was given alone; the levels of 3-O-methylated 
3/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
metabolite of L-dopa, 3-OMD, significantly decreased or were almost totally inhibited by the higher 
entacapone doses. The bioavailability of L-dopa increased to about 190% and the elimination half-life 
was prolonged from 0.9 h to 2.2 h after oral entacapone 30 mg/kg. The effect of entacapone was dose-
dependent  and  time-dependent.  Similarly,  oral  administration  of  entacapone  increased  dose-
dependently the concentrations of L-dopa, DA, DOPAC and HVA and decreased those of 3-OMD in 
rat striatum. The increase of the HVA levels in the brain reflected the inability of the drug to inhibit 
COMT in the brain in acute experimental conditions. 
Data from studies in animal models of PD (MPTP-model, reserpinised mice and turning behaviour in 
rats lesioned  unilaterally  with 6-OHDA), supported a potential efficacy in PD when  entacapone  was 
co-administered with L-dopa/carbidopa. Taken together, the data indicate that entacapone is a potent, 
selective and reversible inhibitor of COMT. This may lead to an enhancement of the bioavailability of 
L-dopa in the brain, as evidenced by changes in the concentrations of its metabolites. 
General pharmacology 
The applicant has adequately investigated general safety pharmacology. 
Entacapone  seems  to  be  devoid  of  any  marked  central  effect,  at  least  in  single  dose  experiments, 
which  is  in  agreement  with  its  low  penetration  into  the  CNS.  Entacapone  did  not  change  body 
temperature in rats, after single (400 and 800 mg/kg) or repeated administration (200 mg/kg bid for 7 
days) in  contrast to tolcapone and  dinitrophenol suggesting that under in vivo  conditions  entacapone 
does not uncouple oxidative phosphorylation. 
No adverse effects of clinical relevance were observed with respect to the cardiovascular, respiratory, 
renal or gastrointestinal systems.  
Following intravenous administration (0.003-3 mg/kg) to anaesthetised normotensive rats, no effect on 
blood pressure, heart rate  or ECG was observed. Even high doses of entacapone (300 mg/kg per os) 
had  no  effects on ECG in  dogs when  measured 1 and 24 hours after last dose  in a 51-week  chronic 
toxicity study.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone  has  been  investigated  in  rats  and  dogs.  A  few  qualitative  and 
quantitative  differences  across  species  were  found.  However,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
entacapone is sufficiently similar in animals and humans to allow the animal toxicology studies as a 
valid exploratory tool for human safety.  
Absorption of unchanged entacapone after single oral administration is quite rapid both in rats and in 
dogs. Two peaks in plasma concentrations, occurring at 5-15 minutes and at 3-5 hours post dose, were 
found in rats indicating that entacapone is subject to enterohepatic circulation and a single peak at 3 
hours was found in dogs. A transformation of entacapone to its (Z)-isomer took place in both species 
studied, the transformation being minimal in rats but quite noticeable in dogs. 
In rats and in humans, the absolute bioavailability was dose-dependent and ranged from 20% to 55%, 
following single dose of 10, 65 and 400 mg/kg, in rats and from 29% to 49%, following single dose of 
5, 25, 50, 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg, in humans. 
In vitro, the protein binding of entacapone (5µg/ml) was high with species differences: about 98% in 
man, rabbit and monkey; 5% in mouse and pig and 10% in dog. Consequently, the extravascular tissue 
distribution  was  limited.  The  binding  site  was  the  benzodiazepine  binding  site,  but  not  the  warfarin 
one. In vitro, no displacement was observed with warfarin, salicylic acid, phenylbutazone, diazepam, 
carbidopa and (Z)-isomer of entacapone.  
The overall elimination half-life of entacapone ranged from 30 minutes to 1 hour in dogs and from 1.5 
to 3 hours in man. Following repeated administration in rats and in dogs, no accumulation or retention 
of drug-related material was observed. 
Entacapone is extensively metabolised in the liver in all species including humans, the main metabolic 
pathway  being  glucuronidation,  sulfation  and  isomerisation  from  (E)-  to  (Z)-isomer  (active 
metabolite).  Similar  pathways  across  species  are  the  reduction  of  the  C-C  double  bond  of  the  side 
chain (less important in rat and in man) and the hydrolysis to 3,4-dihydroxy-5-nitrobenzaldehyde. The 
dissimilarities  consists  of  amide  N-dealkylation,  nitro  reduction  and  O-methylation  (only  in  rats), 
4/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
amide  hydrolysis  and  nitrile  hydrolysis  (only  in  dogs)  and  oxidative  hydrolysis  of  one  of  the  ethyl 
groups of the diethylamide group (only in man).  
In  rats  and  dogs,  entacapone  metabolites  are  predominantly  excreted  in  the  faeces  (two  thirds  as 
glucuronide  or  sulphate  conjugates)  and  one  third  in  the  urine  with  less  than  1.5%  of  the  dose  as 
unchanged  entacapone.  After  the  first  hour  30-45%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  the  bile,  with  an 
enterohepatic circulation accounting for about 10% of the given radioactivity.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity studies were performed in rats and mice. The acute toxicity is low: LD50 being 
about 2 g/kg p.o. in mice and over 2 g/kg p.o. in rats with no difference between (Z)- and (E)-isomer.  
Repeated dose toxicity of entacapone was studied for up to 12 months in rats, with oral doses up to 
600 mg/kg (13-week and 28-day toxicity) and up to 400 mg/kg (52-week toxicity), and in dogs with 
oral doses  up to 400-600  mg/kg (28-day toxicity) and up to 300  mg/kg (52-week toxicity). The  non 
toxic  effect  level  (NTEL)  was,  in  rats  of  both  sexes,  65  mg/kg/day  in  the  13-week  studies  and  95 
mg/kg/day in the 1-year studies. In the 52-week toxicity studies in rats and dogs, the non toxic effect 
level  (NTEL)  corresponded  to  exposures  9  and  15  times  higher,  respectively,  than  the  average 
exposure  in  man  AUCman  6x200  mg).  No  clear  signs  of  organ  toxicity  were  found  in  the  chronic 
toxicity studies. The only consistent finding was that entacapone induced a slight anaemia. This may 
be due to iron deficiency, since high doses of entacapone chelate iron. 
In  chronic  toxicity  tests  in  male  rats,  chronic  progressive  nephropathy  was  found.  The  incidence  of 
chronic myocarditis was also increased, but it was considered not clinically relevant.  
The  combination  of  entacapone, L-dopa and  decarboxylase inhibitor (carbidopa  or benserazide)  was 
studied for up to 28 days in rats. In addition, the effects of the carbidopa combination were studied in 
monkeys  during  13  weeks.  Karyomegaly  in  renal  proximal  tubule  cells  was  observed  in  some  rats 
(both  females  and  males)  receiving  entacapone  either  alone  or  in  combination  with  DDCI.  As  this 
finding was evenly distributed in males and females and not only in males, such as renal neoplasia, it 
can be concluded that it is of no clinical relevance.  
The  applicant  was  asked  to  provide  information  on  the  toxicity  of  the  combination  with  L-dopa  + 
DDCI  +  selegiline.  An  additional  28-day  oral  toxicity  study  in  rats  has  been  conducted.  The 
combination  of  entacapone  (120  mg/kg/day), L-dopa (40 mg/kg/day),  carbidopa (10  mg/kg/day) and 
selegiline (2  mg/kg/day)  for 28 days was  well tolerated. The  clinical signs  of the  combination  were 
mild and they were restricted to signs seen previously with entacapone alone or seen in this study with 
the combination of L-dopa, carbidopa and selegiline. There were no findings in haematology, clinical 
chemistry,  urine analyses, organ  weights or in  histopathological  evaluation  considered  related to the 
combined treatment.  
Reproductive toxicity - No effects on fertility and general reproductive performance were observed 
in  the  rat  with  doses  up  to  700  mg/kg/day  of  entacapone  The  exposure  factor  was  calculated  to  be 
approximately 50 times higher than the average exposure in man (AUCman 6 x 200 mg). 
Embryo-foetal studies were performed in rats (doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day) and in rabbits (doses up to 
300  mg/kg/d).  Entacapone  administered  to  the  pregnant  rats  during  the  period  of  organogenesis 
produced no significant effects upon survival and development in utero. The exposure factor based on 
toxicokinetic  data  was  calculated  to  be  80  times  higher  in  the  highest  dose  group  than  the  average 
exposure in man (AUCman 6 x 200 mg). Entacapone administered to the pregnant rabbits resulted in 
an  abnomal  body  weight  gain  in  mother  and  in  an  increased  incidence  of  small  foetuses.  Skeletal 
examination of foetuses revealed an apparent slight developmental delay in some bones. The exposure 
factor based on toxicokinetic data was calculated to be approximately 5 times higher than the average 
exposure in man (AUCman 6 x 200 mg).  
Peri/post-natal performance was evaluated in rats with doses up to 700/mg/kg/d. Gestation length and 
parturition were unaffected by entacapone. Litter size, survival, sex ratio, weight gain and post-natal 
development  was  also  normal.  The  fertility  and  litter  responses  of  the  F1-generation  were  also 
unaffected by treatment of F0-generation. 
5/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
Genotoxicity The genotoxicity potential of entacapone was studied in an adequate battery of in vitro 
and ex vivo genotoxicity tests, performed according to current requirements. Entacapone was found to 
be mutagenic in two mammalian cell tests in vitro, suggestive of chromosome type damage. However, 
entacapone has not shown any genotoxicity in vivo. 
Carcinogenicity  -  Carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  in  rodents  with  up  to  600  mg/kg/day 
(mice)  or  400  mg/kg/day (rats)  entacapone administered  orally by  gavage. The  mouse  study  did not 
reveal  any  treatment-related  increase  of  neoplastic  findings.  The  duration  of  the  rat  study  was  104 
weeks.  
The major finding was an increased number of adenomas and carcinomas in the kidneys of male rats 
receiving  400  mg/kg/day  of  entacapone.  No  such  tumours  were  observed  in  females.  Additional 
studies  provided  evidence  that  entacapone-induced  tumours  are  related  to  alpha2µ-globulin.  The 
applicant  has  conducted  several  additional  studies,  which  gave  further  support  that  the  kidney 
neoplasias  found  in  high  dose  male  rats  are  connected  to  male  rat  specific  alpha2µ-globulin 
nephropathy.  
Environmental  risk  assessment  –The  applicant  provided  sufficient  information  on  ecotoxicity  and 
environmental risk associated with the use of entacapone.  
In  summary,  the  applicant  has  conducted  appropriate  and  well-designed  series  of  preclinical 
experiments, in accordance with GLP, which demonstrate that the COMT inhibitor entacapone, when 
given  together  with  L-dopa  and  carbidopa,  dose-dependently  increases  plasma  concentration  of  L-
dopa and  enhances the  availability  of L-dopa in the  brain.  At the same time the amount  of the 3-O-
methylated  metabolite  the  3-OMD  is  reduced.  In  animal  models  of  PD,  entacapone  potentiates 
beneficial  effects  of  L-dopa  and  enables  the  reduction  of  dose  of  L-dopa.  The  main  effect  of 
entacapone in preclinical studies seems to be  a prolongation of  action  of L-dopa. There is sufficient 
experimental data, which provides scientific background for clinical testing in the treatment of PD.  
The applicant provided, during the assessment procedure, the additional data requested. The potential 
toxicity of L-dopa/dopamine metabolites, such as dopa quinone and melanin, was investigated in rats 
(entacapone penetration into CNS) and in  monkeys (neurotoxicity):  entacapone penetrates the blood 
brain barrier very poorly and does not seem to induce neurotoxic damage in nigrostriatal dopaminergic 
neurons  when  given  alone  or  in  combination  with  L-dopa+carbidopa.  Additional  studies  on  the 
receptor binding profile were also conducted. Entacapone had no significant binding affinity for any of 
the receptors investigated including adenosine  A1 and A2 receptors, adrenoceptors (α1, β1 and β2), 
dopamine (D1, D2, D3, D4, D5), GABA, glutamate (NMDA), histamine (H1 and H2), muscarinic or 
nicotinic, opiate, PAF, serotonin (non-selective) or sigma receptors. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The  core  clinical  documentation  of  entacapone  consists  of  two  pivotal  phase  III  double-blind, 
randomised,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  studies  conducted  in  376  idiopathic  and  end-of-dose 
fluctuating Parkinson’s disease patients. Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of the product were 
investigated 
in  26  pharmacodynamic,  18  pharmacokinetic  and  5  pharmacokinetic  and 
pharmacodynamic studies, which involved about 680 subjects.  
The  clinical  studies  generally  are  of  good  quality  and  GCP  has  been  adhered  to.  The 
pharmacodynamic and the pharmacokinetic studies involved small groups of subjects, making it often 
difficult to draw conclusions. 
Pharmacodynamic studies 
The primary pharmacodynamic effect of entacapone, COMT-inhibition, has been demonstrated to be 
dose-dependent  and  reversible,  in  the  red  blood  cells  of  healthy  volunteers.  Maximum  inhibition 
(approximately 60%) was reached within 60 min with a single dose of 200 mg. The activity returned 
to baseline within 8 hours. Reversible inhibition was also observed following repeated dosing for 10 
days. However, the percent inhibition was almost statistically significantly lower (p=0.0586, paired t-
test) on day 10 compared to day 1. The difference might be explained by differences in Cmax and Tmax 
observed  in  the  pharmacokinetic  analyses  carried  out  during  the  study.  A  study  in  small  number  of 
healthy volunteers investigating the inhibition of COMT activity in the gastrointestinal tract was not 
conclusive. 
6/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
In  healthy  male  volunteers,  a  single  dose  of  entacapone  400  mg  alone  or  together  with  L-dopa/ 
carbidopa  300/75  mg  did  not  affect  growth  hormone  and  prolactin  concentrations  to  a  clinically 
relevant extent. 
Plasma  noradrenaline  and  adrenaline  concentrations  were  not  significantly  affected  by  single 
increasing doses or repeated doses (up to 7 days) of entacapone at rest or during submaximal exercise 
in  healthy  volunteers.  Plasma  catecholamine  concentrations  were  not  significantly  affected  during 
exercise in PD patients who were concomitantly taking entacapone and levodopa/DDCI. 
Haemodynamics, cardiovascular autonomic function and catecholamine metabolism were studied both 
in healthy volunteers and in PD patients. Blood pressure and heart rate at rest and during exercise were 
not  consistently  affected  by  entacapone  in  healthy  volunteers  (single  doses  up  to  200  mg,  repeated 
doses 400 mg or 800 mg t.i.d.). Changes in plasma MHPG, DHPG and DOPAC were consistent with 
COMT inhibition. Plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline concentrations were not significantly affected. 
Exercise capacity, cardiorespiratory function (spiroergometry) and cardiovascular autonomic functions 
were not clinically significantly affected in PD patients by the combination of entacapone (200 mg per 
day)  and  L-dopa/DDCI  (300-1000  mg  per  day).  No  clinically  relevant  arrhythmias  during  normal 
daily  activities  (24  h  Holter  monitoring)  or  during  exercise  were  found.  Plasma  catecholamine 
concentrations were not significantly affected during exercise. 
Effect of entacapone in combination with DDCI, mainly L-dopa plus carbidopa, on the motor response 
to L-dopa in Parkinson’s disease has been evaluated in a number of phase II studies. In a single dose 
crossover study  with increasing  entacapone  doses  versus placebo, a statistically significant  effect  on 
ON time was observed at 200 mg (mean increase 20.6%), but not at 50, 100 or 400 mg. At 200 mg and 
400 mg, the onset of the motor response was delayed. The duration of dyskinesia during a L-dopa test 
increase at 200 mgfrom 142 minutes during placebo to 187 minutes during entacapone treatment. The 
duration of faster tapping and increased walking speed were prolonged at 200 mg. An increase in the 
dose  did  not  enhance  the  motor  response  in  the  L-dopa  test.  Increased  response  in  the  L-dopa  test 
latency  was  not  observed  in  several  other  studies.  In  a  double-blind  crossover  study  with  repeated 
dosing (100, 200 or 400 mg with each L-dopa dose), none of the entacapone doses increased ON time 
compared to placebo. However, daily L-dopa dose was maximally decreased at 200 mg. An increase 
in the frequency of orthostatic hypotension and increased heart rate in patients treated with entacapone 
combined with L-dopa+ was observed in several phase II clinical trials. 
L-dopa pharmacokinetics and interaction studies 
The effect of entacapone on L-dopa pharmacokinetics has been studied in healthy volunteers and PD 
patients.  In  healthy  volunteers,  single  doses  of  entacapone  (50,  100,  200  and  400  mg)  significantly 
increased the L-dopa AUC in a dose-dependent way but there did not appear to be an effect on t½ and 
there was no affect on Cmax and Tmax. A dose-dependent decrease in AUC of 3-OMD was observed 
as  well.  In  another  study  entacapone  was  administered  up  to  10  times  per  day  along  with  L-
dopa+carbidopa  for  7  days  in  12  healthy  volunteers.  There  was  no  evidence  of  accumulation  of 
entacapone on Days 3, 4 and 5. No accumulation of COMT-inhibition was noted (Days 1 and 6). The 
plasma levels of L-dopa and carbidopa were almost superimposable on Days 1 and 6 and there were 
no statistically significant differences in the PK parameters, except for Tmax of L-dopa occurring later 
on Day 6  (0.8±0.4 vs 1.25±0.5 h, p<0.05). The relevance  of this study in healthy  volunteers  for the 
clinical setting is doubtful. 
In PD patients, the effect of entacapone on the AUC of L-dopa, either after a standard or a controlled-
release  L-dopa/carbidopa  formulation  (200  mg  with  each  L-dopa  dose),  consisted  of  a  20-46% 
increase,  which  was  fairly  consistent  across  the  studies.  Cmax  of  L-dopa  was  only  occasionally 
affected. Doses  of  entacapone  exceeding 200  mg/L-dopa  dose  have  not  consistently been associated 
with further increases in L-dopa AUC. The AUC of 3-OMD decreased to a similar extent regardless of 
the  L-dopa  formulation.  However  the  benefit  of  combining  of  entacapone  with  L-dopa+  controlled 
release preparations has not been studied sufficiently (2 open studies; 2 cross-over studies which show 
a moderate prolongation of the ON time versus placebo).  
The effect of entacapone on L-dopa pharmacokinetics may substantially depend on the L-dopa/DDCI 
preparation. In one crossover study in PD patients, entacapone increased L-dopa AUC by 23% when 
the patients were using standard L-dopa/carbidopa. However, the  AUC of  L-dopa increased by 50% 
7/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
when  the  patients  were  using  standard  L-dopa/benserazide.  This  could  differentially  affect  both  the 
efficacy and tolerability of these preparations.  
In positron emission tomography studies employing 18F-6-fluorodopa (6-FD), an analogue of L-dopa, 
an increase in 6-FD accumulation in the striatum after entacapone administration was observed. This 
increase  was  less  and  the  6-FD  uptake  lower  in  advanced  PD  patients  as  opposed  to  de  novo  PD 
patients or healthy subjects after entacapone. The clinical implication of this finding is uncertain.  
Several pharmacodynamic interaction studies have been carried out. In healthy subjects, a single dose 
of  entacapone  seemed  to  increase  the  arrhythmogenicity  of  i.v.  catecholamines  (isoprenaline  and 
adrenaline). When administered with a small dose of moclobemide entacapone did not clearly affect 
the plasma catecholamine levels. However, the combination of entacapone with MAO-A inhibitors is 
not recommended. 
A single dose of entacapone (200 mg) did not aggravate the haemodynamic responses to, or alter the 
adverse effects  of a single  dose  of imipramine (75  mg). However, patients  with Parkinson’s disease 
are  more  likely  to  have  autonomic  dysfunction  and  may  be  more  sensitive  to  the  combined 
haemodynamic effects of L-dopa and antimuscarinic/antiadrenergic effects of imipramine. 
In a  phase II study in PD patients, selegiline did not affect the  haemodynamic  effects of  entacapone 
and L-dopa+. There were no differences between the treatments with respect to plasma noradrenaline 
and  dopamine  concentrations.  The  motor  response  to  L-dopa  was  not  significantly  different  with  or 
without selegiline. Selegiline did not affect the increase in the bioavailability of L-dopa achieved with 
entacapone. However, the study suggested that dyskinesias may be aggravated by the concomitant use 
of selegiline, entacapone and L-dopa. 
Study  ENT-D-01  was  a  two-way,  cross-over  study  involving  12  healthy  males  and  females.  The 
participants received warfarin until their INR was stable and between 1.4 - 1.8. The individuals were 
randomised to receive either concomitant  entacapone 200mg or placebo, four times a day for 7 days 
followed  by  a  switch  in  the  treatment  for  additional  7  days.  The  mean  INR  was  increased  by  13% 
(CI90 6-19%). The AUC of the R-warfarin increased by 18% and S-warfarin (the more potent isomer) 
by  5%.  The  data  were  reported  to  CPMP  as  a  response  to  PSUR  3  and  the  results  and  a  statement 
recommending  a  control  of  INR  when  initiating  treatment  with  entacapone  in  patients  receiving 
warfarin was added to the SPC section 5.2 through a Type II variation. 
In  section  4.5  of  the  SPC  the  text  on  concomitant  use  of  antidepressants  was  changed  from 
"Concomitant  use  of  entacapone  with  these  medicinal  products  is  not  recommended"  to  "  "Caution 
should be exercised when these medicinal products are used concomitantly with entacapone" through 
a  Type  II  variation.  In  clinical  praxis,  the  concomitant  use  of  antidepressants  with  entacapone  is 
sometimes  necessary. The presented safety  data are assuring. However,  caution should be  exercised 
because the  experience is still limited and  very rare  effects  cannot be  ruled  out. Thus, the proposed 
wording is justified. 
Dose finding studies 
The  dose-finding  studies  did  not  clearly  establish  the  optimal  dose  of  entacapone.  However,  doses 
exceeding  200  mg  with  each  dose  of  L-dopa  may  be  associated  with  less  benefit  regarding  motor 
response  and  increased  dopaminergic  adverse  events.  Moreover,  higher  doses  of  entacapone  may 
decrease the bioavailability of L-dopa/carbidopa compared to the 200 mg dose. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were carried-out in  healthy  volunteers, in PD patients and in special patient 
groups  (elderly,  subjects  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment).  Pharmacokinetic  studies  in  PD  patients 
cover the dosing frequency of 4-6 times/day.  
Clinical  studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  the  formulation  intended  for  marketing.  However,  a 
number  of  bioequivalence  studies  have  been  conducted  with  the  formulations  used  in  phase  I-III 
studies.  The  tablets  used  in  Phase  III  studies  and  the  market-image  tablet  were  shown  to  be 
bioequivalent. 
8/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
Entacapone is a chiral active drug. The E-isomer is the main product, less than 0.5% of the Z-isomer 
occurs in the raw material. Isomerisation occurs in vitro and in vivo with a short half-life. However, 
the isomers have similar pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic characteristics.  
Marked intra- and interindividual variation in absorption (Tmax, Cmax) is a characteristic feature of the 
pharmacokinetics of entacapone.  
The  absorption  of  oral  entacapone  is  fast.  Mean  Cmax  and  mean  AUC0-inf  of  entacapone  increased 
linearly with dose (single doses from 5 to 800 mg).  
After  doses  from  100  to  800  mg  the  disposition  was  mainly  described  by  two  phases,  the 
corresponding half-lives were 0.27-0.37 h (T½alpha) and 1.59-3.10 h (T½ß). The plasma concentration-
time profiles of entacapone and its Z-isomer were similar. 
The bioavailability of entacapone and its Z-isomer increased substantially and linearly with increasing 
doses (36±11% at 200 mg). This could be explained by saturation of first-pass metabolism. 
The decay of intravenous 13C-entacapone was tri-exponential with half-lives of 0.05 (α), 0.38 (β) and 
2.4  (γ)  hours.  The  first  two  phases  represented  94%  of  the  total  AUC.  However,  dose-standardised 
AUC values increased more than dose-proportionally. Vc was roughly equal to the blood volume and 
Vss about the same as the extracellular volume (20 l). 
Repeated  dose  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone  (100,  200,  400  mg  tid  for  10  days)  showed  no 
evidence of accumulation of the parent compound and its Z-isomer. 
The extent of binding to plasma proteins is high (98%) with both isomers. Entacapone is mainly bound 
to albumin. 
The main phase I metabolic reaction was isomerisation from E- to Z-isomer. Free entacapone and its 
Z-isomer  represented  3-4%  of  all  metabolites  detected  in  urine.  The  main  phase  II  pathway  was 
glucuronidation.  Entacapone,  Z-isomer  and  conjugates  represented  about  98%  of  all  metabolites 
detected. 
The  excretion  of  entacapone  and  its  Z-isomer  in  urine  was  studied  after  single  oral  doses  of 
entacapone (5, 25, 50, 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg) in 12 healthy volunteers. Eleven of the volunteers 
also received an intravenous dose of 25 mg. The mean cumulative excretion of entacapone into urine 
ranged  from  0.1±0.1%  to  0.2±0.4%  during  the  first  4  hours  after  an  oral  dose  of  5-800  mg.  The 
cumulative excretion after the intravenous dose was 0.5±0.6% during the first 4 hours. Only traces of 
the Z-isomer were found. Thirty-eight (±2.5)% of intravenous 13C-entacapone and 13.3 (±1.4)% of the 
oral dose was excreted in urine during 48 hours. 
Biliary excretion has not been studied in man. It is estimated that 80-90% of the dose is excreted in 
faeces,  although  this  has  not  been  confirmed  in  man.  There  is  no  data  on  the  magnitude  of 
enterohepatic circulation in man. 
Food did not affect the bioavailability of entacapone to a significant extent, although absorption was 
slightly delayed. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone  were  not  significantly  different  in  elderly  and  young  healthy 
subjects. 
All pharmacokinetic studies in the target population have been carried out in patients receiving either 
standard  or  depot/controlled-release  L-dopa/DDCI.  In  patients  receiving  4-6  doses  of  entacapone 
(200 mg) per day, the AUC of entacapone was significantly higher on day 28 than after the first dose. 
Six out of 12 patients had measurable entacapone trough concentrations. 
Different L-dopa/DDCI formulations have been shown to affect the pharmacokinetics of entacapone. 
Cmax  and  AUC  of  entacapone  were  significantly  greater  after  depot  than  after  standard  L-dopa  + 
carbidopa.  Theoretically,  the  difference  in  entacapone  absorption  and  bioavailability  may  be  due  to 
competition  between  entacapone  and  carbidopa  during  the  absorption  phase.  Although  differences 
appear  to  exist  in  the  interactions  between  entacapone  and  L-dopa/DDCI  combinations  as  well  as 
L-dopa/DDCI formulations, entacapone has been consistently shown to increase the bioavailability of 
L-dopa. 
The interaction of entacapone with benserazide has not been studied. 
9/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
Selegiline  did  not  significantly  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  entacapone.  Formal  pharmacokinetic 
studies with other antiparkinson drugs have not been carried out since entacapone penetrates the CNS 
poorly  and  various  receptor  binding  and  uptake  studies  suggest  that  interactions  are  unlikely. 
However,  since  dopaminergic  adverse  events  were  more  frequently  reported  in  patients  who  took 
dopamine agonists with entacapone than with placebo, an appropriate warning is included in the SPC. 
The same applies combination with amantadine although the safety analysis does not provide reliable 
information due to the small number of patients involved.  
An interaction between entacapone and omeprazole has been demonstrated. Omeprazole significantly 
decreased  the  AUC  of  entacapone.  This  interaction  may  be  based  on  inhibition  of  gastric  acid 
secretion. However, the observed interaction seems not to be of any clinical consequence since daily 
ON  time  did  not  show  any  difference  between  entacapone  and  placebo  with  or  without  gastric  acid 
blocking agents and the magnitude of the pharmacokinetic interaction was modest.  
Entacapone may displace drugs that bind to the albumin binding site II (“diazepam site” which binds 
also  several  NSAID  drugs,  including  ibuprofen).  Clinical  interactions  have  not  been  studied  and, 
hence,  cannot  be  ruled  out.  However,  according  to  in  vitro  studies,  significant  displacement  is  not 
anticipated at therapeutic concentrations of these drugs. 
The potential interaction of entacapone and drugs known to inhibit or induce the hepatic  cytochrome 
P450  system  have  not  been  studied.  However,  the  main  metabolic  pathway  of  entacapone  is 
conjugation. Interactions based  on the induction  of  glucuronide  conjugation reactions  have  not been 
formally studied. However, no difference in the AUC of entacapone was observed in smokers versus 
non-smokers.  Following  the  3rd  PSUR  the  CPMP  requested  the  MAH  to  include  data  from  in  vitro 
studies  using  human  liver  microsomal  preparations  indicating  that  entacapone  inhibits  cytochrome 
P450 2C9 (IC50 ~ 4 
M). Entacapone showed little or no inhibition of other types of P450 isoenzymes 
(CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  CYP3A  and  CYP2C19).  This  information  was  added  to 
section 5.2 of the SPC through a Type II variation. 
µ
The Cmax and AUC of entacapone were higher in patients with moderate renal impairment or who were 
on  renal  replacement  therapy.  The  mean  elimination  T½  varied  between  1-2.2  hours.  However,  the 
differences are probably not clinically significant. The results suggest that routine dosage adjustment 
is not necessary for patients with renal impairment. However, for patients who are receiving dialysis 
treatment, a longer dosing interval may be considered. 
The bioavailability of entacapone was substantially higher in subjects with hepatic cirrhosis and mild 
to moderate liver insufficiency (Child-Pugh Class A and B). The Cmax and AUC were doubled in these 
patients compared to healthy subjects. This probably reflects decreased first-pass metabolism. The rate 
of absorption and elimination were not affected. The dose of entacapone should be reduced by 50% in 
patients  with  liver  impairment  (cirrhosis).  However,  because  the  tablets  can  not  be  divided, 
entacapone must not to be used in patients with hepatic impairment, whether mild or moderate. 
Efficacy 
As Parkinson’s disease progresses, control of symptoms, particularly mobility, with L-dopa becomes 
increasingly  difficult  due  to  the  ON/OFF  fluctuations.  Patients  experiencing  ON/OFF  effects  are 
referred to as fluctuating patients, those with a stable response to L-dopa treatment as non-fluctuating 
patients. 
The main clinical documentation of the efficacy of entacapone as an adjunct to L-dopa/DDCI consists 
of one phase II short-term crossover double-blind study (293930) and two pivotal phase III 6-month 
double-blind studies (NOMECOMT and SEESAW). 
For  ‘fluctuating’  patients,  the  primary  efficacy  criterion  were  ON  time  and  proportion  of  ON  time 
assessed by patient diary rating during 18 hour and 24 hour recording periods respectively. Secondary 
criteria  (FR)  were  the  Unified  Parkinson’s  Disease  Rating  Scale  (UPDRS),  total  and  cluster  scores; 
global score; daily fluctuations in disability and L-dopa dose, proportion of OFF time. 
For non-fluctuating patients, UPDRS motor score was defined as a primary (FR) efficacy variable. 
The pivotal studies were well planned and conducted in compliance with GCP. 
10/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
The phase II study enrolled almost exclusively patients with a long history of idiopathic Parkinson’s 
disease  and  L-dopa  dose-dependent  motor  fluctuations  (wearing  off).  None  of  the  phase  II  or  III 
studies  enrolled  patients  with  de  novo  Parkinson’s  disease.  Only  one  of  the  phase  III  safety  studies 
(FILOMEN) included non-fluctuating patients. Most of the patients had other concurrent illnesses and 
medications. 
All  patients  had  received  previous  treatment  with  L-dopa/DDCI.  The  majority  of  patients  were 
concomitantly using other antiparkinsonian medication (up to 65% used selegiline and up to 50% used 
dopaminergic agonists). 
The  pivotal  phase  III  studies  and  the  phase  II  study  enrolled  a  total  of  402  patients  with  idiopathic 
Parkinson’s  disease,  214  patients  were  treated  with  entacapone.  The  study  populations  represent 
patients with advanced PD. 
The  efficacy  variables  used in the pivotal studies  are  well  documented. The  endpoints are adequate. 
Both  Intention-To-Treat  (ITT)  and  Per  Protocol  (PP)  analyses  have  been  presented.  The  statistical 
analyses are appropriate. 
Fluctuating patients 
NOMECOMT  (2939033):  This  was  a  phase  III  multicentre,  randomised,  comparative  (placebo  vs. 
entacapone 200  mg with each L-dopa+ dose, carbidopa or benserazide), double blind, parallel group 
study of 6-month duration carried out in 171 patients ( 85 entacapone and 86 placebo) with `advanced 
(FR)  PD  and  end-of-dose  fluctuations.  The  primary  efficacy  criterion  was  mean  daily  ON  time 
following  the  first  morning  dose  of  levodopa  (Fr).  Compared  to  placebo,  entacapone  increased  the 
duration  of  ON  time  by  1.3  hours  (p<0.001,  95% CI  0.8-1.9)  and  decreased  OFF  time  to  about  the 
same  extent.  The  proportion  of  daily  ON  time  increased  by  10%.  The  proportion  of  OFF  time 
decreased by 24% in the entacapone group and did not change in the placebo group. These results are 
clinically  relevant.  However,  there  was  a  trend  towards  increased  duration  of  dyskinesias.  The  ON 
time with and without dyskinesias was not evaluated. However, the dyskinesias were less frequent at 
the end of the study, possibly due to the decrease in daily L-dopa dose. Entacapone slightly decreased 
the  proportion  of  patients  with  predictable  OFF  periods,  but  did  not  affect  unpredictable  or  sudden 
OFF periods. The frequency of wearing off significantly decreased  with entacapone. Entacapone did 
not  significantly  affect  other  daily  fluctuations  in  disability.  The  global  evaluation  by  patient  and 
investigator  favoured  entacapone  over  placebo  (percentage  improved  according  to  the  investigators 
was  56.5%  in  the  entacapone  and  27.9%  in  placebo  group).  The  mean  L-dopa  dose  and  dosing 
frequency  decreased  significantly  with  entacapone  (dose  decrease  was  102  mg  in  the  entacapone 
group,  p<0.001,  95%  CI  from  -137  to  -67).  The  clear  withdrawal  effects  which  were  observed 
following discontinuation of entacapone after 24 weeks of treatment also support its efficacy.  
The  data  indicate  that  the  increase  in  bioavailability  of  L-dopa  from  immediate  release  tablets  of 
L-dopa/benserazide  during  entacapone  treatment  is  more  pronounced  than  from  immediate  release 
tablets of L-dopa/carbidopa.  
SEESAW  (2939044):  This  was  a  phase  III  multicentre,  randomised,  comparative  (placebo  vs. 
entacapone 200 mg with each L-dopa+ dose, carbidopa), double blind, parallel group study of 6-month 
duration carried out in 205 patients (103 entacapone and 102 placebo) with advanced PD and end-of-
dose  fluctuations.  The  primary  efficacy  criteria  was  mean  daily  ON  time  during  an  18hr  recording 
period.(Fr) The study consisted of a L-dopa dose-adjusting period (weeks 1-8) and a period of fixed L-
dopa dosing (weeks 9-24). This study also included a staggered withdrawal period. A 6% increase in 
the proportion of daily ON time was observed with entacapone. The benefit from entacapone in this 
study  was  not as  clear-cut  as in the  former study. However, the proportion  of ON time  was already 
about  60%  at  baseline  and  the  assumed  increase  of  10%  or  more  may  have  been  optimistic.  The 
increase in ON time was 0.58 hours compared to placebo in the whole study population and 0.75 hours 
in patients who were OFF at least 3 hours at baseline. A significant and proportional decrease in OFF 
time was observed. UPDRS scores were not different between placebo and entacapone. Mean daily L-
dopa  dose  decreased  significantly.  The  duration  of  dyskinesias  increased  with  entacapone.  Global 
evaluation  by  patient  and  investigator  favoured  entacapone  over  placebo.  Entacapone  was  not 
significantly  different  from  placebo  with  respect  to  occurrence  and  severity  of  daily  fluctuations  in 
disability.  However,  clear  withdrawal  effects  were  observed  after  entacapone  treatment  was 
discontinued.  The  difference  in  the  magnitude  of  effect  of  entacapone  between  NOMECOMT  and 
11/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
SEESAW studies may partly be explained by the fact that, in the former study, the majority of patients 
were on L-dopa/benserazide treatment. 
Study  293930:  This  was  a  phase  II  randomised,  comparative  (placebo  or  entacapone  200  mg  with 
each  L-dopa+  dose,  carbidopa  or  benserazide),  double  blind  crossover  (2x2)  study  of  two  4-week 
periods without washout, carried out in 26 patients. The primary efficacy criterion was the duration of 
motor response  during an L-dopa test.  A  clear sequence  effect  concerning the primary  variable  was 
shown.  However,  the  mean  duration  of  ON  time  increased  significantly  with  entacapone:  the 
difference between placebo and entacapone was 49 min.  
The  latency  of  onset  of  the  motor  response  was  not  affected.  The  duration  of  dyskinesias  increased 
significantly. Excluding  nocturnal  akinesia (frequency  was  decreased by  entacapone), there  were  no 
obvious differences in the numbers of patients experiencing daily fluctuations in disability. The mean 
daily  dose  of L-dopa  decreased significantly  during  entacapone (from 860±320 mg to 720±250 mg, 
p=0.0011) treatment.  
A post hoc analysis was performed by the applicant on the data of phase III pivotal efficacy studies, 
which  showed  that  baseline  severity  of  the  disease  had  no  significant  influence  on  the  response  to 
entacapone.  
Non-fluctuating patients 
FILOMEN (2939052): This is an ongoing long-term phase III multicentre safety study of entacapone 
in patients with Parkinson’s disease. A six-month interim report has been submitted. Study design is 
comparative,  randomised  (2:1  entacapone:placebo),  double  blind,  parallel  group  comparison.  The 
treatment consisted of 200 mg entacapone or placebo with each L-dopa+ dose (maximum daily dose 
of entacapone 2000 mg). The total study duration for each patient was 6.5-7 months including a 2-4-
week run-in period and a 6 month double-blind treatment period. 
This was the only study, which enrolled non-fluctuating PD patients. However, the study was designed 
to  primarily  assess  the  long-term  safety  of  entacapone.  Analysis  of  ON  time,  OFF  time  and 
fluctuations  in  disability  were  not  included.  The  only  efficacy  parameters  that  were  significantly 
different from placebo were total levodopa dose/day and the number of levodopa doses/day. 
Efficacy conclusion 
The  placebo-controlled  pivotal  studies  support  the  efficacy  of  entacapone  as  an  adjunct  to  standard 
L-dopa/DDCI preparations in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease in patients with end-of-
dose motor fluctuations. The documentation does not support efficacy in non-fluctuating patients or in 
patients who are on controlled-release L-dopa+. 
Long-term efficacy of entacapone has been demonstrated up to 6 months in double-blind studies.  
Safety 
Safety data from each of the phase I-III studies have been reviewed separately for this AR. 
The phase II and III studies (including on-going phase III long-term studies) include 925 patients who 
have  been  exposed  to  entacapone.  The  phase  III  6-month  studies  included  188  patients  who  were 
allocated to entacapone treatment. Altogether 198 patients have  received entacapone for 6 months in 
an ongoing double-blind study (FILOMEN), 96 patients have received entacapone for 12 months in an 
open on-going safety study (NOMESAFE) and 106 patients have been exposed for at least 48 weeks 
in the on-going open follow-up study (SEESAFE). 
In the phase III studies, 8-11% of patients discontinued entacapone due to adverse events. 
Dopaminergic  adverse  events  have  been  clearly  more  frequent  after  entacapone  than  after  placebo 
(hyperkinesia, dyskinesia, nausea). The dopaminergic adverse events have been dose-dependent. 
Entacapone  may  cause  urine  discoloration.  However,  the  most  prominent adverse  events  have  been 
addominal pain( 7.1%)and diarrhoea (8.4% of patients, severe in 1% ).  
Diarrhoea has also been the most frequent cause for discontinuation of entacapone (2.5% of the cases). 
The  mechanism  of  diarrhoea  is  unclear.  It  may  be  a  class  effect  of  nitrocatechol-structured  COMT 
12/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
inhibitors. It was not clearly dose- or age-dependent; its incidence does not appear to increase during 
long-term treatment and it seems not to be associated with malabsorption. 
Entacapone  treatment  has  not  been  found  to  be  associated  with  clinically  important  ECG  changes. 
Changes in supine and standing blood pressured  have shown a slight trend towards lower  values  on 
entacapone  than  on  placebo  treatment.  However,  by  enhancing  levodopa  effects  entacapone  may 
aggravate orthostatic hypotension. 
The frequencies of adverse events have been analysed according to the L-dopa+ medication (L-dopa + 
carbidopa  or  benserazide)  in  NOMECOMT  study.  Dyskinesia  and  postural  hypotension  were  more 
frequent in patients who were using L-dopa/benserazide.  
This  could  have  a  pharmacokinetic  background  (entacapone  increases  the  bioavailability  of  L-
dopa/benserazide 5-10% more than that of L-dopa/carbidopa). In fact, the mean reduction in L-dopa 
daily  dose 
taking 
entacapone/carbidopa.  
taking  entacapone/benserazide 
in  patients 
in  patients 
is  greater 
than 
Adverse  events  have  been  analysed  separately  in  patients  who  concomitantly  received  selegiline  or 
dopamine agonists (FILOMEN). The results should be interpreted  cautiously, since the  analyses did 
not separate the effects of individual drugs (both selegiline and dopamine agonists probably were used 
by a substantial proportion of patients). Selegiline and dopaminergic drugs may increase the frequency 
of  dopaminergic adverse  events,  including postural  hypotension and  dyskinesias. The  frequencies  of 
other adverse events did not appear to have been affected. 
Decreases  in  haemoglobin  (1.5%  with  entacapone  and  0.3%  with  placebo  after  6  months), 
erythrocytes and haematocrit have been a consistent finding in the clinical studies. This phenomenon 
was  also  observed  in  animal  toxicity  studies.  In  addition,  in  the  open  label  extension  studies  the 
frequency  of  clinically  relevant  decrease  in  haemoglobin  increased  to  5.8%.  The  decreases  in  red 
blood  cell  parameters  are  probably  due  to  iron  deficiency  anaemia  (Fe-chelation).  Slight,  but 
significant  decreases  in  serum  iron,  MCHC,  MCH  and  MCV  over  6  months  have  been  observed. 
However, the changes in iron binding capacity do not conclusively support iron deficiency.  
Decreases in the mean leukocyte and platelet counts have been observed (not consistently). The mean 
changes  observed  in  these  parameters  are  not  clinically  relevant.  One  case  of  clinically  significant 
thrombocytopenia  and  epistaxis  has  been  reported  from  a  one-year  long-term  open  study  (causality 
unlikely).  This  patient  had  had  slightly  lowered  platelet  counts  previously  during  double-blind 
entacapone.  Similarly,  one  case  of  leucopenia  and  eosinophilia  has  been  reported  from  an  on-going 
long-term safety study. This patient had had slightly lowered WBC counts previously during double-
blind  entacapone.  The  follow-up  confirmed  that  the  causality  relationship  is  unlikely.  Low  WBC 
counts have been detected in at least three other patients (FILOMEN). However, WBC abnormalities 
were not more frequent with entacapone than with placebo in this study. 
In both the SEESAW study as well as in the combined population of the three phase III double blind 
studies,  the  incidence  of  dyspnoea,  abnormal  vision  and  purpura  increased  dose-dependently  in  the 
entacapone  group.  No  consistent  dose-dependency  was  observed  in  the  placebo  group  (L-dopa+). 
However, the overall incidence was similar in the entacapone and in the placebo group. Hence, a clear 
relationship could not be established. 
The  mean  changes  in  clinical  chemistry  parameters  generally  have  been  slight  and  not  clinically 
relevant. However, slight decreases in serum calcium (and in some studies, phosphate), serum albumin 
and potassium have been observed. 
Increases in serum glucose have been observed. The increases in the mean values were not clinically 
significant,  and  a  further  analysis  conducted  by  the  applicant  suggested  that  entacapone  does  not 
adversely affect glucose tolerance. 
Abnormal  ALT/AST/GGT  values  have  been  observed  in  up  to  approximately  5-15%  of  patients 
during long-term treatment (12 months) in both entacapone and placebo groups. However, clinically 
significant increases have been rare. 
13/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
Post Marketing experience 
Following the 4th PSUR the CPMP requested the MAH to include the increase in transaminases in the 
table of labelled adverse effects. The cumulative rate of increase in transaminases is < 1:1000 and 
> 1:10 000 and abnormal liver function tests have been included in section 4.8 of the SPC with the 
frequency ‘rare’ through a Type II variation. 
The adverse event agitation was reported seven times (four of which with possible relatedness to 
treatment) during the reporting period of the 4th PSUR. This emotional and behavioural symptom may 
be part of confusion, but could also be a separate phenomenon. Agitation as a very rare event was 
included in section 4.8 through a Type II variation. 
Four cases of hepatitis have been reported. In one of these four cases biopsy results revealed severe 
cholestasis. In the other three cases an arbitrary ALT/ALP ratio below 2 was indicative of cholestatic 
nature. The text ‘Isolated cases of hepatitis with cholestatic features have been reported’ has been 
added to section 4.8 through a Type II variation. 
In the assessment of the fifth PSUR for Comtess, it was concluded that, as regards the review of 
sudden sleep attacks and somnolence submitted in the PSUR and the class-review of dopaminergic 
substances including levodopa combinations, that the PSUR included data that justified a request for 
an amendment of the current Comtess SPC. Entacapone enhances the effects of levodopa and is 
administered concomitantly with levodopa and a DDC inhibitor. Possible effects of entacapone on 
alertness can not be reliably separated from the effects of levodopa in clinical use. However, there is 
evidence that concomitant use of entacapone + levodopa was associated with somnolence or sudden 
onset of sleep in isolated cases. As a consequence sections 4.4, 4.7 and 4.8 of the SPC and 
corresponding sections of the Package Leaflet were updated through a Type II variation. 
First 5 year renewal 
During the period  of  the seventh PSUR, a total of 6 reports including  weight  decrease, anorexia,  or 
both these  adverse  drug reactions, were  received. No  clear pattern  of  AE is  evident at  present. Both 
weight  loss  and  anorexia  are  often  associated  with  other  gastro-intestinal  disorders  and  underlying 
medical  conditions. In the past  clinical trials, there  was no  significant  difference in the incidence  of 
anorexia or weight decrease reported as an adverse event or as actual weight decrease in the controlled 
clinical  studies  in  patients  receiving  entacapone  compared  to  those  receiving  placebo.  A total  of  35 
reports  including  weight  decrease  and/or  anorexia  have  been  received  since  the  first  marketing 
authorisation  of  entacapone. Weight  decrease  has been included altogether in  26 and anorexia in 15 
reports,  6  reports  included  both  ADRs.  Most  of  the  reports  including  weight  decrease  or  anorexia 
included  one  or  more  additional  ADRs.  The  MAH  proposed  to  add  a  precaution  to  section  4.4  and 
both weight loss and anorexia to section 4.8. of the SPC were endorsed by the CPMP. These changes 
were also reflected in the Package Leaflet. These changes were accepted by the CPMP. 
A follow up of certain issues, such as liver disorders, NMS and rhabdomyolysis, anorexia and weight 
loss,  as  well  as  anaemia  and  gastro-intestinal  complications,  was  requested.  Since  there  were  still 
several  issues  to  be  followed  up,  the  submission  of  an  additional  1  year  PSUR  was  considered 
necessary. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  efficacy  of  entacapone  as  an  adjunct  to  standard  levodopa/DDCI  preparations  has  been 
demonstrated in double-blind placebo-controlled studies (up to 6 months) in PD patients with end-of-
dose  motor  fluctuations.  Efficacy  has  not  been  established  in  non-fluctuating  PD  or  in  de  novo  PD. 
The most important undesirable effects due to the product itself are abdominal pain and diarrhoea. In 
the majority of cases these undesirable effects were graded mild or moderate. By adding entacapone to 
L-dopa therapy the dopaminergic side effects, especially dyskinesia, are increased during on time. 
Risk/benefit in the treatment of patients with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor  fluctuations 
is considered to be positive. 
14/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
5. 
Conclusion 
Entacapone has been demonstrated in in vitro and ex vivo pharmacological studies to be  a reversible 
inhibitor  of  COMT.  Entacapone  increases  levels  of  L-dopa  in  the  blood  when  co-administered  with  
L-dopa  and  a  peripheral  decarboxylase  inhibitor.  Entacapone  acts  peripherally,  but  does  not  inhibit 
COMT centrally. 
The quality of Comtess 200 mg film coated tablets has been demonstrated, allowing 3-year shelf life. 
The applicant has adequately investigated the general safety pharmacology. 
No adverse effects of clinical relevance were observed with respect to the cardiovascular, respiratory, 
renal or gastrointestinal systems in animal studies.  
As to the clinical pharmacology and the efficacy of the drug in patients suffering from fluctuating PD, 
the  following  issues  needed  clarification  during  an  oral  explanation  before  granting  a  marketing 
authorisation: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The reasons for inconsistency in efficacy between the two pivotal trials. 
The clinical benefit of adding entacapone to controlled released L-dopa. 
Data  from  clinical studies strongly suggested that during  entacapone treatment the increase in 
bioavailability of levodopa from standard levodopa/benserazide tablets is more pronounced than 
from standard levodopa/carbidopa tablets. The  clinical relevance of this difference in terms  of 
efficacy and safety need clarification. 
Though an effect on on/off time was seen, entacapone did not clearly increase the apparent t½ of 
L-dopa.  
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  reasons  for  the  inconsistency  in  the  magnitude  of  the  effect  of 
entacapone  on  efficacy  variables in the two phase  III  pivotal studies (NOMECOMT and SEESAW) 
were not fully clarified. However, the CPMP noted that in the SEESAW study, all patients were taking 
levodopa/carbidopa  whereas  in  the  NOMECOMT  study,  the  majority  of  patients  were  taking 
levodopa/benserazide.  
The observed differences in the effect of entacapone on the pharmacokinetics of levodopa depending 
on the dopa decarboxylase inhibitor may partially explain the differences in clinical effect in the two 
pivotal  phase  III  studies.  The  difference  in  the  effect  of  entacapone  on  levodopa  pharmacokinetics 
depending on the levodopa/DDCI preparation is stated in the SPC.  
The  CPMP  concluded  that  the  efficacy  of  entacapone  as  an  adjunct  to  controlled  release 
levodopa/dopa  decarboxylase  inhibitor  preparations  has  not  been  proven.  Therefore,  the  SPC  was 
amended accordingly. 
A positive Opinion was adopted by majority vote (17 out of 24 CPMP members, no abstention). Some 
CPMP members considered the benefit/ratio of the product to be negative and expressed the following 
divergent view: 
“The  concept  behind  using  a  COMT  inhibitor  in  addition  to  L-dopa/DDCI  is  to  smooth  the  L-dopa 
plasma levels by increasing the apparent t1/2 of L-dopa. The pharmacokinetic data showed an increase 
in AUC of L-dopa but there did not appear to be an effect on t1/2. The clinical effects were studied in 
the two pivotal trials of 6 months duration versus placebo. 
The  results  were  inconsistent  as  in  one  study  the  mean  difference  in  on  time  between  placebo  and 
entacapone was 1.20 min and in the other 35 min. The effect of entacapone appears to be dependent 
on the dopa decarboxylase inhibitor used”. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
that the benefit/risk profile  of COMTESS was  favourable in the indication as  an adjunct to standard 
preparations  of  levodopa/benserazide  or  levodopa/carbidopa  for  use  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s 
disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations, who cannot be stabilised on those combinations. 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  the  available  information  at  the  time  of  the  first  5  year  renewal,  the 
CPMP is of the opinion that the quality, the safety and the efficacy of this medicinal product continues 
to  be  adequately  and  sufficiently  demonstrated  and  therefore  considered  by  consensus  that  the 
15/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
benefit/risk  profile  of  COMTESS  remains  favourable  in  the  indication  as  an  adjunct  to  standard 
preparations  of  levodopa/benserazide  or  levodopa/carbidopa  for  use  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s 
disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations, who cannot be stabilised on those combinations. 
16/16 

EMEA 2004 
 
