EMA/374063/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000913 
EPAR summary for the public 
Conbriza 
bazedoxifene 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Conbriza. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Conbriza. 
What is Conbriza? 
Conbriza is a medicine that contains the active substance bazedoxifene. It is available as tablets 
(20 mg). 
What is Conbriza used for? 
Conbriza is used for the treatment of osteoporosis (a disease that makes bones fragile) in women who 
have been through the menopause. It is used in women who are at risk of fracture (broken bones). 
Conbriza has been shown to significantly reduce fractures in the spine but not in the hip. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Conbriza used? 
The recommended dose of Conbriza is one tablet once a day. Patients should also receive calcium and 
vitamin D supplements if they do not get enough from their diet. 
How does Conbriza work? 
Osteoporosis happens when not enough new bone grows to replace the bone that is naturally broken 
down. Gradually, the bones become thin and fragile, and more likely to break (fracture). Osteoporosis 
is more common in women after the menopause, when the levels of the female hormone oestrogen 
fall: oestrogen slows down bone breakdown and makes the bones less likely to fracture. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Conbriza, bazedoxifene, is a selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM). 
Bazedoxifene acts as an ‘agonist’ of the oestrogen receptor (a substance that stimulates the receptor 
for oestrogen) in some tissues in the body. Bazedoxifene has the same effect as oestrogen in the bone. 
How has Conbriza been studied? 
Conbriza has been compared with raloxifene (another medicine used to treat osteoporosis) and placebo 
(a dummy treatment) in one main study involving about 7,500 women with osteoporosis who had been 
through the menopause. All of the women in the study were also given calcium and vitamin D 
supplements. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of new spine fractures over three 
years. 
Conbriza was also compared with raloxifene and placebo in another main study involving 1,583 
postmenopausal women who were considered to be at risk of osteoporosis. The women were treated 
for two years and received calcium supplements. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in 
bone density (a measure of how strong the bones are) in the spine after two years of treatment. 
What benefit has Conbriza shown during the studies? 
In the first study, Conbriza was more effective than placebo at reducing the number of new spine 
fractures. After three years, 2% of the patients receiving Conbriza (35 out of 1,724) had new fractures 
compared with 4% of those receiving placebo (59 out of 1,741). The difference was more relevant in 
the sub-group of women at higher risk of fractures before the study. Conbriza was not shown to be 
effective at reducing the number of fractures outside the spine. 
In the other study, Conbriza was also more effective than placebo at maintaining the bone density of 
the spine. After two years, the average bone density remained almost unchanged in women who 
received Conbriza, but in women who received placebo it was reduced by over 1%. 
In both main studies the effects of Conbriza were similar to the effects of raloxifene. 
What is the risk associated with Conbriza? 
The most common side effects with Conbriza (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are hot flushes, 
muscle spasms and peripheral oedema (swelling, especially of the ankles and feet). For the full list of 
all side effects reported with Conbriza, see the package leaflet. 
Conbriza must not be used in women who have had venous thromboembolism events (problems due to 
the formation of blood clots in the veins) including deep vein thrombosis (a blood clot in a deep vein, 
usually in the leg), pulmonary embolism (a blood clot in the lungs) and retinal vein thrombosis (a 
blood clot at the back of the eye). It must not be used in women with unexplained bleeding from the 
womb and women with signs or symptoms of endometrial cancer (a cancer of the lining of the womb). 
Conbriza is only for use in women who have been through the menopause, so it must not be used in 
women who could become pregnant. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Conbriza been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Conbriza’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Conbriza  
EMA/374063/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Conbriza? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Conbriza is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Conbriza, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Conbriza 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Conbriza on 17 April 2009.  
The full EPAR for Conbriza can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Conbriza, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Conbriza  
EMA/374063/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
