European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 February 2009 
Doc.Ref.:EMEA/CHMP/660889/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
CONBRIZA 
International Non-proprietary Name:  
bazedoxifene 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/913 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 42 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 45 
Page 2 of 49 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Wyeth  Europa  Ltd  submitted  on  4  September  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the  European Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  CONBRIZA,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 21 September 2006. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier,  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 30 March 2001. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  Harald Enzmann 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Steffen Thirstrup 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 05 September 2007. 
The procedure started on 27 September 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  17 
December  2007.    The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 18 December 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  January  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 January 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  22 
August 2008. 
The  GCP  inspection,  requested  by  the  CHMP,  was  carried  out  at  one  investigator  site  in 
Denmark (inspected 18-21 Feb 2008), one investigator site in Brazil (inspected 25-29 Feb 2008) 
and at the sponsor site in the USA (inspected 25-28 Mar 2008). The final Integrated Inspection 
report was issued on 20 June 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 02 October 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 October 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 23 December 
2008. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the 
CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 27 January 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  February  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
Page 3 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  CONBRIZA  on  19  February  2009.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 17 February 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Osteoporosis is characterized by a decrease in bone mass and architectural deterioration of bone tissue. 
Subtle  modifications  of  bone  remodelling,  related  to  abnormalities  of  bone  turnover,  can  induce  a 
substantial loss of bone over a prolonged period of time. A period of asymptomatic bone loss results in 
reduced  bone  strength.  When  bone  loss  is  sufficient  to  cause  mechanical  weakness,  fractures  may 
occur spontaneously or as a result of minimal trauma. Osteoporotic fractures cause substantial clinical 
and  economic  burden  for  society.  Vertebral  and  hip  fractures  have  been,  for  many  years,  associated 
with increased morbidity and mortality. Hip, vertebral, forearm and humerus fractures also reduce, to 
various extents, health-related quality of life with deleterious effects lasting up to several years after 
the fracture event. Age and menopause are the two main determinants of osteoporosis. The cessation 
of ovarian production of oestrogen, at the time of the menopause, results in an accelerated rate of bone 
loss in women. 
Antiresorptive agents, such as bisphosphonates and selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), 
are  currently  one  of  the  treatment  options  for  the  prevention  of  osteoporotic  fractures.  The  efficacy 
results of the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) studies showed that standard dose oestrogen-progestin 
combination therapy or oestrogen alone (in women who have undergone hysterectomy) was effective 
in  reducing  the  risk  of  fractures  in  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  as  well  as  successfully  treated  the 
symptoms  of  menopause.  However,  an  increased  risk  of  stroke,  deep  vein  thrombosis  (DVT), 
pulmonary  embolus  (PE),  and  when  combined  with  a  progestin,  breast  cancer  were  reported. 
Bisphosphonates are non-hormone compounds that bind to the bone surface and are then taken up by 
osteoclasts.  These widely used drugs have a profound effect on bone remodelling, and their efficacy 
in  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  osteoporosis  is  well  established.  SERMs  have  oestrogen  agonist 
effects  on  bone  tissue  and  oestrogen  antagonist  or  neutral  effects  on  endometrial  and  breast  tissue.  
The efficacy of the first approved SERM, raloxifene, to reduce the incidence of vertebral fractures has 
been demonstrated in women at high risk for fractures through a large randomized placebo-controlled 
trial involving more than 7000 postmenopausal women (Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation 
(MORE) trial). AE associated with raloxifene included an increase in the absolute risk of VTEs similar 
to that seen with oestrogen therapy. 
Bazedoxifene  is  a  third-generation  selective  oestrogen  receptor  modulator  (SERM)  that  exhibits 
oestrogen-agonistic  tissue-selective  activity  on  the  skeletal  system  and  lipid  metabolism  while  also 
acting  as  an  oestrogen  antagonist  on  breast  and  uterine  tissue.  Bazedoxifene  is  formulated  as  an 
immediate-release,  film-coated  tablet  and  has  been  developed  for  the  prevention  and  treatment  of 
osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. Apart from the present program, bazedoxifene is also being 
studied  in  combination  with  conjugated  oestrogens  (CE)  in  an  ongoing  phase  3  program  for  the 
prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis and the treatment of menopausal symptoms.  
The indication as proposed by the applicant was:  
“CONBRIZA is indicated for the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis in women 
at increased risk of fracture.”  
Approved indication:  
“CONBRIZA  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  in  women  at  increased 
risk of fracture. A significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral fractures has been demonstrated; 
efficacy on hip fractures has not been established. 
Page 4 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When  determining  the  choice  of  CONBRIZA  or  other  therapies,  including  oestrogens,  for  an 
individual  postmenopausal  woman,  consideration  should  be  given  to  menopausal  symptoms,  effects 
on uterine and breast tissues, and cardiovascular risks and benefits (see SPC section 5.1).” 
The recommended dose is one tablet of 20 mg once daily, at any time of day, with or without food. 
Supplemental calcium and/or vitamin D should be added to the diet if daily intake is inadequate. 
The present assessment reports concerns the complete marketing authorisation application for the new 
active substance bazedoxifene acetate applied via the centralised procedure.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
CONBRIZA  contains  bazedoxifene  acetate  as  active  substance.  Bazedoxifene  is  a  third-generation 
selective  estrogen  receptor  modulator  (SERM).  CONBRIZA  is  an  immediate  release,  film-coated 
capsule shaped tablet. Tablets contain 20 mg of bazedoxifene expressed as free base. The tablets are 
supplied in blister packaging.  
Active Substance 
Bazedoxifene is the INN name of the active substance which is present in the product in the form of 
the  acetate  salt.  Its  chemical  name  is  1H-Indol-5-ol,  1-[[4-[2-(hexahydro-1H-azepin-1-yl)  ethoxy] 
phenyl] methyl]-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-methyl-,monoacetate corresponding to the molecular formula 
C30H34N2O3•C2H4O2 and molecular mass of 530.65. 
It  is  a  white  to  tan  non-hygroscopic  crystalline  powder.  It  exists  in  at  least  three  crystalline 
polymorphic forms. The route of synthesis described for the active substance is reported to yield only 
form  I.  Bazedoxifene  solubility  in  water  is  largely  pH  dependent  showing  plateau  of  approx. 
0.5 mg/ml below pH 5. Its pKa is approximately 11 and distribution coefficients show pH dependency 
in consistency with pH solubility profiles. It doesn’t show any optical activity. 
•  Manufacture 
The active  substance  is  supplied  by  another  company  and  is  supported  by  an  ASMF.  Two  alternate 
routes  have  been  adequately  described,  differing  only  in  one  step.  The  remaining  steps  for  both 
processes  are  identical.  The  synthesis  process  consistently  yields  form  I.    Data  are  provided  for  29 
batches of active substance, showing that the level of form II in active substance material is typically 
very  low  complying  with  the  specifications  in  force  of  release.  Some  of  the  clinical  trial  batches 
contained low levels of Form II but always within proposed specifications.  
•  Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual),  identification  (IR,  HPLC), 
assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  water  (Ph.Eur),  residue  on  ignition 
(Ph.Eur),  acetic  acid  content  (HPLC),  palladium  content  (ICP-OES),  Heavy  Metals  (Ph.Eur)  and 
Particle Size (Laser Diffraction) and polymorphic forms (DSC and XRD). 
Batch analysis data are provided for 12 batches in various batch sizes produced using both processes. 
The results show compliance with the proposed specification and no significant differences in purity 
or impurity contents across the batch size range. 
•  Stability 
Stability  data,  as  described  in  the  ASMF,  were  provided  for  the  same  12  batches  of  micronised 
bazedoxifene acetate for which batch analyses have been provided.  These batches were manufactured 
using both processes and nine of them were pilot scale and the remaining three were industrial scale. 
Stability data up to 24 months at 5°C and at 25°C/60%RH, and up to 6 months at 40°C/75%RH were 
obtained. 
Additional supportive data are provided for three micronised batches made at industrial scale stored 
for up to 36 months at 5°C and at 25°C/60%RH and for up to 6 months at 40°C/75%RH. 
Page 5 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  maximum  holding  time  and  storage/transport  conditions  for  the  bulk  drug  substance  prior  to 
micronisation has been also adequately defined. 
All tests results were satisfactory and within acceptance criteria with minimal to no changes observed 
over time at any storage condition. 
Stress study was performed on one of the three primary stability batches. The results showed extensive 
degradation  under  light  and  oxidative  conditions,  less  but  noticeable  degradation  under  alkaline 
conditions and heat and no change in acidic conditions. Stress study was performed on one of the three 
primary stability batches. The ASMF holder provided photostability results obtained under ICH option 
2 conditions demonstrating that micronised material was photostable.   
In conclusion, the data collected to date under all studied conditions support the proposed retest period 
and packaging material. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
A  capsule  formulation  was  initially  developed  for  Phase  I  clinical  studies.  Later  on,  a  tablet 
formulation was developed for subsequent commercialization which was very similar to the capsule 
formulation. The acetate form was chosen over other forms because it is less hygroscopic and more 
soluble than the other forms tested preclinically. 
As  bazedoxifene  acetate  is  a  poorly  water-soluble  drug  substance,  reduction  of  particle  size  by 
micronisation was employed. The intrinsic dissolution of the micronised particles is faster compared to 
that of the unmicronised substance. Extensive information was provided regarding polymorphic forms.  
The synthesis process for the active substance has been optimised to ensure production of the desired 
polymorph. 
Capsules  were  initially  developed  and  because  bazedoxifene  acetate  is  susceptible  to  oxidation 
especially  in  alkaline  environment  and  increased  temperature,  ascorbic  acid  was  added  as  an 
antioxidant  to  improve  stability.    Later  on  a  tablet  formulation  was  developed  based  on  capsule 
formulation  and  excipient  levels  were  adjusted  to  improve  compressibility  and  a  tablet  coating  was 
added. 
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  2  oral  formulations  (tablet  and  capsule  containing  micronised  drug 
substance)  with  respect  to  an  IV  formulation  and  also  the  relative  oral  bioavailability  and  safety  of 
bazedoxifene  acetate  administered  in  tablet  form  compared  with  a  capsule  formulation,  were  the 
primary objective of clinical study (3068A1-111). The dissolution profiles were comparable and the 
absolute  bioavailability  of  both  orals  formulations  was  the  same.  Both  formulations  were 
bioequivalent as far as the exposure (AUC) is concerned. 
All excipients used are widely used for immediate release tablet formulations and compatibility with 
the active substance has been demonstrated by appropriate studies examining binary mixtures of active 
substance and excipients.  
Extensive information was provided regarding polymorphic forms. Results from a BE study (3068A1-
129-US) performed with tablets formulated with a significant level of polymorphic form II in the drug 
product is not bioequivalent to tablets containing only form I. The polymorphic content in the finished 
product  is  controlled  at  release  and  during  shelf  life  by  appropriate  tests  and  limits  and  a  suitable 
analytical method.  
Data were also provided on possible inter-conversion of the polymorphic forms of the drug substance.  
Through  appropriate  control  and  manufacturing  conditions,  the  content  of  polymorphic  forms  in  the 
finished product can be minimised. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Magnesium  stearate  is  of  vegetable  origin.  Only  Lactose  Monohydrate,  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
CONBRIZA,  is  derived  from  animal  sources  i.e.  bovine  milk.  A  statement  confirming  compliance 
with the requirements of EMEA/410/01-Rev.2, October 2003 is provided by the lactose supplier.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Page 6 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture  consists  of  standard  wet  granulation  techniques  which  include  dry  mixing,  wet 
granulation, drying, the screen milling, blending, tablet compression, and film coating. 
All of the results obtained from the evaluation performed on the blending, compression and coating 
processes of manufacturing 20 mg Bazedoxifene Film Coated Tablets were satisfactory. The overall 
validation data generated demonstrate that the process is well controlled, reproducible, and produces 
drug product that is in compliance with approved specifications and acceptance criteria. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specifications  of the  drug  product at  release and shelf-life include  tests for appearance (visual), 
identity  (HPLC-PDA),  assay  (HPLC),  content  uniformity  (Ph.Eur.),  degradation  products  (HPLC), 
microbial limits (Ph.Eur.), dissolution (Ph.Eur.), ascorbic acid content (HPLC) and polymorphic forms 
(XRD) Analysis results are presented for 7 different formulations covering 55 batches used in clinical 
testing phases I, II and III, and in stability testing.  Batch results for three batches used in clinical and 
bioequivalence  studies  and  in  stability  studies  have  been  enclosed  and  the  results  are  all  within  the 
specifications.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Three production scale batches of 20 mg were stored for up to 24 months at 25°C/60%RH, 24 months 
at 30°C/65%RH, and up to 6 months at 40°C/75%RH.  
Bazedoxifene tablets were initially packed in two blister systems but after the review of the 18 month 
data, it was proven that only one of the two blister configurations provides adequate protection for the 
product and this was chosen as the market packaging.  
For the primary stability batches, data to 24 months at 25°C/60%RH, 24 months at 
30°C/65%RH,  and  6  months  at  40°C/75%RH  for  all  package  show  data  remaining  well  within 
acceptance  criteria  with  no  significant  increase  in  degradation,  decrease  in  strength,  or  change  in 
dissolution. 
Photostability 
Blister packed products were exposed to ICH option 2 light conditions.  Total degradant content rises 
slightly though results are satisfactory and well within specification.  Dissolution is unchanged. 
Overall the stability results indicate that the product is stable in the proposed packaging material and 
during the proposed self-life when used in accordance with the SPC 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of CONBRIZA film-coated tablet is adequately established. Information on development, 
manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The 
quality of the active substance is considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. 
Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and 
control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
With  the  exception  of  explorative  studies  nearly  all  non-clinical  pharmacological,  toxicological  and 
kinetics  studies  have  been  performed  in  compliance  with  GLP  regulations.  It  is  accepted  that  the 
cardiovascular  safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rats  and  monkeys  were  performed  not  in  compliance 
with GLP regulations as these studies were performed prior to release of ICH S7A guidance. 
Page 7 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Centralised  scientific  advice  has  been  provided  by  the  CHMP  in  which  non-clinical  issues 
(reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity studies) were dealt with. 
Pharmacology 
Bazedoxifene is a selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM), which binds to both intracellular 
oestrogen  receptor  subtypes  (α  and β)  and  acts  oestrogen  like  on  the  skeletal  system  in  the  species 
investigated and, at least in the rat on lipid metabolism, while exhibiting only minimal to negligible 
action on breast and uterine tissues. Oestrogen deficiency-dependent postmenopausal osteoporosis in 
women is characterized by major changes in the bone system with increased bone turnover rates and 
reduction in bone mineral density. In animal systems bazedoxifene was shown to counteract partially 
oestrogen deficiency-dependent changes in the bone system. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  (PD)  programme  encompassed  explorative  studies  to  search  for  a 
compound with the desired properties in suitable in-vitro tests and to characterise basic properties on 
the  molecular  level,  e.g.  binding  and  activation  (or  inhibition)  of  certain  oestrogen-responsive  gene 
promoters.  Hormone  effects  were  also  investigated  in  vivo  or  in  selected  cultured  cells  to  mimic 
bazedoxifene’s  action  on  certain  tissues  (e.g.  breast  cancer).  Regular  in-vivo  PD  studies  were  also 
performed  to  test  the  desired  effect  of  bazedoxifene  on  bone  mass,  turnover  and  stability  in 
experimental animals.  
In vitro studies 
The explorative studies are in most cases difficult to assess since the methods used are very special 
and not formally validated. All relevant properties of bazedoxifene were investigated in standard PD, 
Pharmacokinetic  (PK)  and  toxicology  studies  so  that  the  explorative  studies  are  mainly  regarded  as 
background  information.  According  to  the  explorative  studies,  bazedoxifene  has  an  around  4-fold 
higher affinity for the human oestrogen receptor (ER) type α (IC50=26 nM) than for type β (IC50=99 
nM).  From  this  rather  small  difference  in  affinity  no  meaningful  selectivity  is  expected  in  vivo. 
Bazedoxifene  also  had  lower  in-vitro  affinity  for  ER  receptors  than  raloxifene  (IC50=2.4  nM)  and 
showed lesser selectivity towards the ERα than raloxifene (18-fold for the latter). It should be noted 
that ERα selectivity is not an important criterion for SERMs since it is not yet known which type of 
ER  is  required  for  the  desired  effects  of  SERMs  on  the  bone.  In  functional  studies  on  various  gene 
promoters  and  different  cell  types  (including  neuronal  cells)  bazedoxifene  mainly  acted  oestrogen-
antagonistic.  Oestrogen-like  activity  was  observed  on  the  TGF-β3  promoter,  a  gene  thought  to  be 
important  in  bone  maintenance.  In  immature  or  ovariectomized  (OVX)  animals  (where  endogenous 
oestrogen  is  lacking)  bazedoxifene,  like  raloxifene,  displayed  a  minor  oestrogen-agonistic  activity 
whereas  it  behaved  antagonistic  towards  estradiol  if  present.  Therefore  it  has  to  be  regarded  as  a 
partial agonist. 
Bazedoxifene’s  action  on  the  proliferation  of  a  human  breast  cancer  cell  line  (MCF-7)  in  vitro  was 
also  investigated.  In  this  study  bazedoxifene  inhibited  oestrogen-induced  MCF-7  proliferation 
virtually completely, markedly more than two other SERMs also tested in the study (one of them was 
the  established  SERM  raloxifene).  Gene  expression  profiling  in  MCF-7  cells  after  stimulation  with 
oestrogen, bazedoxifene and other SERMs alone or in combination were also provided, but the results 
do  not  allow  meaningful  conclusions  since  too  few  is  known  about  the  relation  between  gene 
expression and clinically relevant physiological events. Off-target effects included antagonistic action 
on the glucocorticoid receptor at higher concentrations (IC50, 282 nM; for the oestrogen receptor IC50 
was around 4 nM, i.e. factor 70). In response to the request by the CHMP, the Applicant made clear, 
that due to the low affinity of bazedoxifene to the glucocorticoid receptor as demonstrated in vitro and 
supported by in vivo data it is expected that the glucocorticoid receptor mediated effects are minimal 
and therefore of no clinical relevance to humans. 
Furthermore, some binding activity at the so-called sigma receptor was detected in the Nova Screen. 
The significance of this finding is unknown, but it is not considered as a hint for an addictive potential 
of bazedoxifene. The sigma receptor was originally described pharmacologically as an opiate binding 
site, was then recognised to bind several further compounds, e.g. haloperidol, and was – after cloning 
Page 8 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
–  identified  as  being  unrelated  to  other  opioid  receptors.  Newer  publications  on  opiate  addiction 
indicate  a  prominent  role  of  the  mu  opiate  receptor.  Sigma  receptors  seem  to  have  other  functions 
although (as for many other receptors) some indirect function in craving or relapse was suggested, e.g. 
Martin-Fardon  et  al.  2007,  Neuropsychopharmacology  32:  1967-1973.  Thus,  since  the  affinity  of 
bazedoxifene  to  the  sigma  receptor  is  low  and  since  no  direct  link  between  sigma  receptors  and 
addictive behaviour exists, there is no specific concern for an addictive potential of bazedoxifene. 
In vivo studies 
BONE 
Currently, there are no completely satisfactory animal models of human osteoporosis, but many useful 
models do exist. In line with the recommendations made in the “Guideline on the evaluation of new 
medicinal products in the treatment of primary osteoporosis” (CPMP/EWP/552/95), evaluations of the 
effect of bazedoxifene on bone quality (bone mass, strength and architecture) were performed in OVX 
rats and in OVX monkeys.  The study duration in the submitted pivotal non-clinical studies were more 
than 6 remodelling cycles as requested in CPMP/EWP/552/95. 
Six week prevention studies in OVX rats 
The  effect  of  bazedoxifene  and  the  reference  compound  raloxifene  on  bone  were  evaluated  in  the 
OVX rat model of bone loss. The oral dose were 1, 3 and 5mg/kg/day administered for 6 weeks. 
Significant  prevention  of  decreases  in  bone  mineral  density  (BMD)  of  the  proximal  tibia  and 
improvement  of  compressive  strength  at  a  lumbar  vertebra  due  to  bazedoxifene-administration  was 
observed, whereas uterine stimulation was very limited. Of all non-clinical pharmacodynamic studies 
on bone, only in this short term rat study, raloxifene was used as a comparator. For the most part the 
comparator  raloxifene  was  used  in  a  dosage  of  3  mg/kg  bodyweight  per  os,  a dose  which  had  been 
established in the publicly accessible literature as an optimal dose rate for a comparable experimental 
setting. 
12 month prevention study in OVX rats 
In  a  12-month  prevention GLP  study  in  OVX  Sprague-Dawley  rats,  bazedoxifene  was administered 
PO by gavage at dosages of 0.15, 0.3, or 1.5 mg/kg/day. DEXA (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry)-
scans  revealed,  due  to  bazedoxifene  treatment,  increases  of  BMD  at  lumbar  vertebrae  1  to  4  and 
femur.  Trabecular  BMD  of  the  femur  and  tibia  (determined  using  peripheral  quantitative  computed 
tomography  [pQCT])  and  cortical  BMD  of  the  diaphyseal  femur  increased  as  well.  Biomechanical 
investigations  revealed  an  increase  in  resistance  to  stress  at  a  lumbar  vertebra.  Histomorphometric 
evaluations  of  trabecular  bone  volume  (trabecular  thickness,  trabecular  separation,  etc.)  showed 
variability  with  regard  to  the  effect  of  bazedoxifene  on  preventing  the  ovariectomy-induced  effects, 
with showing protective effect in some sites, and no significant change under the various conditions 
for other sites and parameteres. 
Transient  increases  in  markers  of  bone  turnover  were  reduced,  and  bazedoxifene  showed  a  dose-
related  reduction  in  oestrogen-deficiency  dependent  increase  in  total  serum  cholesterol.  Uterine 
weights were increased and pituitary weights decreased in bazedoxifene treated animals in comparison 
to vehicle controls. 
Fracture repair in the rat 
In a fracture repair study in OVX Sprague-Dawley rats of approximately 6 months of age, effects of 
bazedoxifene  treatment  on  outcome  of  femoral  osteotomy  were  investigated.  Bazedoxifene  was 
administered  orally  by  gavage  to  rats  at  a  dosage  of  1  mg/kg/day  for  140  days  and  osteotomy  was 
performed  4  weeks  after  start  of  bazedoxifene  treatment.  No  significant  effect  of  bazedoxifene 
treatment  was  demonstrated  in  BMD  scans,  biomechanical  tests  or  histopathological  evaluations 
indicating  that  bazedoxifene  had  neither  beneficial  nor  deleterious  effects  on  bone-healing  in  OVX 
rats. 
18 month prevention study in OVX aged Cynomolgus monkeys 
In  a  18  month  prevention  GLP  study  in  OVX  cynomolgus  monkeys,  beneficial  effect  on  in-vivo 
determined  trabecular  bone  mineral  density  (DEXA:  lumbar  vertebrae  1  –  4;  pQCT:  metaphyseal 
Page 9 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tibia) and on cortical bone mineral density (pQCT: diaphyseal tibia, diaphyseal radius) is documented. 
Beneficial  (reducing)  effects  of  bazedoxifene  (0.2,  0.5,  1,  5,  or  25  mg/kg/day  administered  by  oral 
gavage)  on  biochemical  markers  of  bone  turnover  underline  the  positive  effects  of  bazedoxifene  on 
BMD.  Static  histomorphometrical  parameters  on  trabecular  bone  were  unchanged  in  the  groups, 
whereas  a  variable  effect  was  seen  with  regard  to  dynamic  histomorphometrical  parameters  on 
trabecular  bone  (bone  formation  rate,  mineralizing  surface,  etc.)  in  preventing  the  ovariectomy-
induced  changes.  In  cortical  bone  evaluated  histomorphometrically  at the tibia and  femur,  treatment 
with bazedoxifene partially prevented the ovariectomy-induced changes. 
Uterine  weights  were  not  increased  significantly  due  to  bazedoxifene  treatment.  Unfortunately,  no 
SERM (e.g. raloxifene) was administered as a comparator in this main non-clinical pharmacodynamics 
study.  Therefore,  a  comparative  assessment  of  the  magnitude  of  bazedoxifene  effects  on  the  bone 
system on one hand side and on the female reproductive tract on the other hand side is precluded.  
Three  bazedoxifene-treated  monkeys  were  diagnosed  with  renal  carcinomas,  whereas  none  of  the 
animals of the control groups were. These carcinomas are considered to be of questionable relevance 
for humans mainly for the following reasons:  
1. 
2. 
The incidence of renal carcinoma is roughly in line with few data found in the literature.  
Even  with  highly  genotoxic  rodent  carcinogens,  renal  carcinoma  can  hardly  be  induced  in 
monkeys.  
Due to the slow growth characteristics of renal carcinoma in humans, the carcinomas observed 
at study end in the monkeys have very likely been present prior to the start of the study.  
The age of the monkeys (13.5 to 14.2 years out of a lifespan of 20 to 25 years) is comparable 
to the higher age in humans, the age at which renal cell carcinoma occurs most commonly in 
humans. 
3. 
4. 
In order to confirm that the renal carcinomas observed in the monkey study are unrelated to treatment 
with  bazedoxifene,  the  applicant  performed  several  preclinical  studies  using  tissue  samples  of  the 
monkey study:  
1. 
Histochemical  staining  did  not  show  evidence  of  possible  bazedoxifene-related  renal  injury 
such as basement membrane thickening or fibrosis.  
(2) Preliminary results do not indicate bazedoxifene-induced DNA-adduct formation.  
 Preliminary results from immunohistochemical studies investigating proliferative markers Ki-
67 and PCNA show no relevant increase in renal cell proliferation.  
2. 
3. 
It is concluded that the renal cell tumours in monkeys should not be regarded as bazedoxifene-related.  
Nevertheless, the renal tumour findings in the rat and monkey are mentioned in SmPC section 5.3. 
UTERUS 
Studies aimed to investigate uteral effects of bazedoxifene showed that it has no significant effects on 
the uterus in immature rats and that it antagonises the 17-α Ethinyl oestradiol- and raloxifene-induced 
effects on the uterus. Thus, bazedoxifene seems to act as an antagonist at the uterus. 
OVARIES 
The  effects  of  bazedoxifene  (0.1-10  mg/kg/day)  and  raloxifene  on  ovarian  cyst  generation  were 
investigated in cycling female rats, hypophysectomised rats, and lupron-treated rats 
The treatment period was relatively short (<3 cycles) since this model has high morbidity. 
The results of this study indicated that gonadotropins are necessary for the generation of the ovarian 
cysts and that bazedoxifene alone does not stimulate cysts’ formation in rodents.  
PLASMA/HDL Cholesterol 
OVX  female,  60  day-old  SD  rats  were  treated  PO  with  doses  ranging  from  0.01  to  3.0  mg/kg/day 
bazedoxifene  for  4  consecutive  days.  At  high  doses  (1.0 to 3.0 mg/kg)  bazedoxifene  reduced  total 
plasma cholesterol levels. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
In  order  to  investigate  bazedoxifene’s  potential  to  cross-react  with  non-target  receptors,  a  binding 
assay was performed on 43 targets with bazedoxifene at 3 concentrations (1 nM, 100 nM, and 10 µM) 
The  target  receptor  types  represented  were  neurotransmitter  related,  opioids,  ion  channels, 
uptake/transporter,  second  messengers,  steroids  (oestrogen  and  testosterone),  brain/gut  peptides, 
Page 10 of 49 
 
 
 
 
prostaglandins, growth peptides, and hormones. No relevant off-target activity was detected in these 
studies. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Studies on CNS and respiratory safety did not reveal relevant effects on the parameters investigated. 
From  the  available  preclinical  in-vitro  and  in-vivo  data  bazedoxifene  is  highly  unlikely  to  have  a 
torsadogenic  potential  or to  exhibit  relevant effects  on  heart  rate and  blood  pressure. The  Applicant 
demonstrated  that  exposure  to  the  metabolites  was  significantly  higher  in  the  cardiovascular  safety 
studies conducted in monkeys as compared to humans (> 4.9 times). Therefore, bazedoxifene and its 
metabolites are not likely to affect the cardiac function at the therapeutic concentrations. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
With  the  exception  of  in-vitro  and  in-vivo  studies  with  combined  use  of  oestrogen  agonists  and 
bazedoxifene, the Applicant has not performed pharmacodynamic interaction studies. As drugs, which 
are  likely  to  be  taken  by  patients  concomitantly  with  bazedoxifene,  and  which  might  show 
pharmacodynamic  interactions  with  bazedoxifene  (i.e.  calcium,  vitamin  D),  were  co-administered  in 
clinical studies, no further preclinical pharmacodynamic interaction studies are considered necessary. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical methods were developed and validated for the quantification of bazedoxifene in the plasma 
of mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, and monkeys. 
Absorption 
Bazedoxifene is extensively absorbed after oral administration; the steady-state volume of distribution 
(Vdss)  values  are  large  in  rats  (16.8  L/kg),  dogs  (7  L/kg),  and  monkeys  (11  L/kg),    and  plasma 
clearance are high in rats (3.9 L/h/kg), monkeys (6.7 L/h/kg) and in dogs (5 L/h/kg), respectively. The 
mean  bioavailability  is low  (7  –  16%),  suggesting  effective  first  –  pass effect.  The  pharmacokinetic 
profile of bazedoxifene suggests enterohepatic recirculation in rats, dogs and monkeys.  
Distribution 
The distribution of  14C -bazedoxifene has been studied after single and repeated-dose administration 
both in Sprague-Dawley rats and Long-Evans rats. The mean peak radioactivity was found at 8 hours 
with the highest values in pancreas, liver and lung. The uveal tract in Long-Evans rats contained also 
high concentrations of radioactivity. 
After  repeat-dose  oral  administration  of  14C-bazedoxifene  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  for  8  days, 
radioactivity was well distributed to most tissues but did not readily cross the blood-brain barrier. 
The radioactivity AUC0-168 values in plasma and several tissues after repeat-dose administration were 
higher than those after single-dose administration, indicating that radioactivity accumulated in plasma 
and  tissues  after  repeat  dosing.  The  highest  repeat-dose  to  single-dose  radioactivity  AUC0-168  ratios 
were  observed  in  the  thyroid  gland  and  bone,  respectively.  In  Long–Evans  rats  14C-bazedoxifene-
derived radioactivity accumulated in the uveal tract with repeat dosing, indicating that bazedoxifene 
binds with high affinity to melanin–containing tissues.  
Bazedoxifene is highly (>95%) bound to plasma proteins of animals and humans, and does not readily 
cross the placenta of rats. 
Metabolism 
Bazedoxifene is rapidly and extensively metabolized with glucuronidation being the main metabolic 
pathway  in  mice,  rats,  monkeys  and  humans,  respectively.  Although  two  main  metabolites  were 
identified, the predominant metabolite was bazedoxifene-5-glucuronide in all species examined, which 
constitutes 40% to 95% of the radioactivity in plasma in humans at all time points. 
The 4’-glucuronide of bazedoxifene was found in variable but significant amounts (0-20%) in humans 
but has only been detected in small amounts (<3%) in rats and monkeys. Initial concerns with regards 
to  the  cardiac  safety  of  this  metabolite  were  raised  but  no  signal  for  cardiovascular  concern  has 
emerged from any of the clinical trials with bazedoxifene at doses up to 120mg (i.e. at dosage more 
than  6  times  higher  than  the  anticipated  therapeutic  dose).  Also,  the  CHMP  considered  that 
bazedoxifene  and  its  metabolites  were  not  likely  to  affect  the  cardiac  function  at  therapeutic 
Page 11 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration.  Toxicity  of  this  metabolite  has  been  evaluated  during  the  carcinogenicity  studies  in 
mice, in which this metabolite constitutes 25 – 45 % of the radioactivity in plasma. 
Excretion  
The main route of excretion in mice, rats, monkeys, and post-menopausal women were via bile with 
the faeces. The majority of the radioactive dose (>80%) was excreted within the first 48 hours post-
dosing. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interaction  
Pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interactions  due  to  alterations  of  protein  binding  between  bazedoxifene 
and warfarin, digoxin, or diazepam are unlikely at therapeutic concentrations 
Other pharmacokinetic studies 
The investigation of the intestinal permeability of bazedoxifene showed that Bazedoxifene is a highly 
permeable  compound.  It  belongs  to  the  Class  2  compound  (high  permeability,  low  solubility) 
according to the Biopharmaceutical Classification system. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose  studies  were  performed  in  Sprague-Dawley  (S-D)  rats,  CD-1  mice  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys, following PO, IP and/or IV administration. They revealed low acute toxicity as expected for 
hormonal compounds. 
In  mice  and  rats,  bazedoxifene  was  well-tolerated  and  did  not  cause  mortality  up  to  4000  mg/kg 
following a single PO administration.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The main repeated-dose studies were performed in two species, rat (SD) and monkey (cynomolgus) 
for up to six and nine months, respectively. Reversibility of the observed changes was assessed in a 1-
month rat study with 1 month recovery and in a 1-month monkey study with three months recovery. 
Bazedoxifene was administered via oral gavage. 
Reduced body weight gain and food consumption was observed in the bazedoxifene-treated animals of 
virtually all studies. 
The  most  prominent  changes  that  were  observed  in  all  studies  of  sufficient  duration  were  clearly 
related to the desired pharmacological effect of bazedoxifene.  
They consisted of vaginal, cervical and uterine atrophy (due to a direct anti-oestrogenic effect on these 
organs)  and  increased  ovary  weight  accompanied  by  ovarian  cysts  (most  likely  follicles  that 
proliferated  but  did  not  ovulate,  leading  to  partly  haemorrhagic-ovarian  cysts)  in  female  rats  and 
monkeys. 
The  latter  reflected  a  clomiphene-like  action  of  bazedoxifene  on  the  pituitary,  i.e.  increase  of  basal 
FSH / LH secretion and absence of mid-cycle LH surge as demonstrated in a special hormone study in 
monkeys. In males, increased testis weight was observed accordingly.  
In  one  rat  study,  hypertrophy  of  mammary  gland  (severity  slight)  and  lobuloalveolar  change  in  the 
mammary  gland  were  observed  in  female  rats  at  dosage  of  3  mg/kg/day  PO  and  above.  This  may 
correspond to a markedly elevated oestrogen level due to ovarian follicle hyperplasia. 
The  NOAEL  for  these  findings  corresponded  to  the  therapeutic  exposure  in  human  following 
treatment with bazedoxifene.  
There  were,  however,  some  additional  endocrine  findings  in  most  repeated-dose  (and  also 
carcinogenesis)  studies  which  do  not  clearly  fit  the  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  bazedoxifene  but 
suggest  suppression  of  the  pituitary.  Most  prominent  was  a  decreased  pituitary  weight  (relative  to 
body weight and brain weight) observed in most rat studies and in one monkey study. Accordingly, in 
the 2-year rat carcinogenesis study, the incidence of pituitary neoplasms was markedly reduced. Data 
obtained suggest that at least part of the avoided neoplasms were prolactinomas.  
Page 12 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relative organ weight reduction was observed not only for the pituitary but also for the adrenals (in 
rats)  and  –  in  one  study  –for  the  thyroid  (rats).  Vice  versa,  markedly  increased  thyroid  and  adrenal 
weight  was  observed  after  recovery  in  monkeys.  This  further  argues  for  suppressive  action  of 
bazedoxifene on several hormone axes.  
Another  salient  finding  was  pronounced  nephrotoxicity  (progressive  chronic  nephropathy  with 
calcification and, later on, tumours) in rats.  
In  male  rats,  renal  tubular  corticomedullary  mineralization  occurred  at  all  dosages.  Furthermore, 
haematuria was observed clinically at all dosages in some treated male rats and generally correlated 
with  the  severity  and  incidence  of  mineralization.  Additionally,  increased  incidence  and  severity  of 
hyaline droplets occurred in the renal tubular epithelium of male rats given 100 mg/kg/day. At the end 
of  the  1-month  recovery  period,  mineralization  was  still  present  microscopically  at  5  and  100 
mg/kg/day PO but not 25 mg/kg/day PO.  
Some small haematological changes were observed occasionally for which are considered secondary 
to  the  other  changes,  are  not  considered  toxicologically  meaningful  and  give  no  hints  for  a  specific 
organ toxicity of bazedoxifene. 
Toxicokinetic data were obtained in most repeated-dose toxicology studies.  
Exposure margins are calculated based on exposures in healthy postmenopausal woman volunteers at 
steady  state  (after  14  days  of  once  daily  administration)  for  the  maximum  recommended  dosage  in 
humans (20 mg/day). The steady-state bazedoxifene Cmax and AUC0-24 values for human at 20 mg/day 
were 6.2 ng/mL and 82 ng·h/mL. 
In  general,  exposure  was  approximately  proportional  to  dose  at  lower  doses  and  less  than  dose-
proportional  at  higher  doses,  which  is  a  usual  finding.  Accumulation  after  repeated  dosing  was  not 
observed in animals, in contrast to humans. No consistent gender differences became obvious. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Genotoxicity of bazedoxifene was evaluated in vitro in an Ames test, a mouse lymphoma assay and a 
chromosomal  aberration  test  with  Chinese  hamster  CHO  cells.  Potential  clastogenic  or  aneugenic 
effects  in  vivo  were  assessed  using  the  micronucleus  bone  marrow  test  performed  after  oral 
administration in mice. All studies were negative indicating the bazedoxifene is devoid of genotoxic 
properties.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Two long-term carcinogenicity studies were performed, one in transgenic Tg.rasH2 mice for 6 months 
and one in the rat (Sprague-Dawley) for 2 years. Bazedoxifene was administered orally via diet. 
In the transgenic mouse study,  mice were given bazedoxifene 150 or 500 mg/kg/day. Urethane as a 
positive control and raloxifene as a comparator were also included. The neoplastic findings consisted 
of  benign  granulosa  cell  tumours  which  are  considered  secondary  to  the  established  effect  of 
bazedoxifene on ovarian follicle growth.  
Non-neoplastic observations for bazedoxifene and raloxifene included (apart from the expected uterine 
and vaginal and ovarian changes) lymphoid atrophy in the thymus and (in males only) extramedullar 
haematopoiesis in the spleen at all doses. Lymphoid atrophy was also observed in rats at high doses in 
the dose-ranging studies. 
In the rat study the most salient findings consisted of benign granulosa cell tumours (like in the mouse 
study),  a  reduced  incidence  of  mammary  (females)  and  pituitary  tumours  and,  mainly  in  males,  a 
pronounced  nephrotoxicity  as  already  observed  in  the  repeated-dose  studies,  this  times  with  renal 
tumours. 
It is suspected that the decreased mammary tumour incidence is secondary to the decreased pituitary 
tumour (most likely prolactinoma) incidence. The rat strain used displayed a rather high incidence of 
spontaneous pituitary tumours. It is plausible that these pituitary tumours are oestrogen-dependent and 
hence reduced in incidence by bazedoxifene.  
Concerning  nephrotoxicity,  the  Applicant  claimed  a  gender-  and  species  specific  (male  rats) 
mechanism.  However,  it  should  be  noted  that  it  was  observed  in  females,  too  (albeit  with  a  much 
lower incidence). In the Applicant’s opinion the established mechanism for renal toxicity (binding of 
Page 13 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  drug  to  a  small  protein  formed  sex-hormone-dependently  in  the  liver  and  accumulated  in  the 
kidney) is not plausible in the case of bazedoxifene. Instead, the Applicant proposed that two initially 
independent  rat-specific  nephropathies  were  responsible  for  the  findings  in  male  rats,  which,  acting 
together,  eventually  cause  exaggerated  regeneration/proliferation  of  tubular  epithelial  cells  and 
tumours.  First,  so-called  progressive  nephropathy  (CPN)  was  involved,  which  also  spontaneously 
occurred  in  control  males  but  did  not  lead  to  tumours  in  controls.  Second,  corticomedullary 
nephrocalcinosis (CN) obviously formed in males, identified by typical histological changes. Usually 
CN  is  only  found  in  females,  and  it  is  thought  to  be  oestrogen-dependent  according  to  published 
literature.  However,  it  is  plausible  to  assume  that  bazedoxifene,  via  an  oestrogen-like  action  also 
caused this disease in males; it is known that oestrogen receptors (type alpha) are expressed in kidneys 
of male rats. It is also reasonable to assume that a combination of both nephropathies, CPN and CN, 
could induce tumours because both set proliferative stimuli and both target the same cell population 
(proximal  tubular  epithelial  cells).  Similar  observations  were  made  with  raloxifene  albeit  to  a 
quantitatively  lesser  extent  at  comparable  exposures,  but  this  is  easily  explained  by  the  markedly 
lower  potency  of  raloxifene  as  observed  in  preclinical  PD  studies.  The  Applicant  compiled  clinical 
data on raloxifene to demonstrate that this SERM could not be attributed to kidney damage to date. 
Furthermore, preclinical data show that the renal damage is a clearly staged process with early signs 
detectable in urine chemistry. This is also reassuring for clinical users of bazedoxifene. Nevertheless, 
renal  damage  in  humans  cannot  be  completely  ruled  out  to  date.  Therefore  the  preclinical  kidney 
findings  are  mentioned  in  the  SPC  to  make  the  prescriber  aware  of  a  possible  link  between 
bazedoxifene and kidney disease and take a closer look if a patient receiving bazedoxifene develops 
kidney disease.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity were evaluated in rats and embryotoxicity studies in rats and 
rabbits.  Toxicokinetic  parameters  were  obtained  within  each  study.  No  study  on  pre-  and  postnatal 
development was performed.  
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Male and female fertility was investigated in two separate studies. 
Male fertility was studied in Sprague-Dawley rats. No effects were seen on reproductive performance 
of the males and sperm analysis was not conducted.  
In  females,  adverse  effects  on  reproductive  parameters  included  cessation  of  oestrous  cycles, 
reductions  in  ovulation,  implantations  and  live  foetus’s,  and  increases  in  pre-  and  post-implantation 
embryonic  mortality  at  all  dosages.  Accordingly,  a  NOAEL  for  reproductive  parameters  in  females 
was not identified. These effects were consistent with the pharmacologic activity of these compounds. 
They were only marginally reversible after cessation of treatment for 4 weeks and only at the lowest 
dose tested. 
Embryo-foetal development 
Embryo-foetal development was studied in Sprague-Dawley rats and New-Zealand white rabbits.  
In  the  embryotoxicity  studies  performed  in  rats,  decreased  embryo-foetal  survival,  decreased  foetal 
body weights, delayed ossification and an increase in vascular variations were observed already at the 
lowest dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day.  
In rabbits, administration of bazedoxifene resulted in foetal ventricular septum defects, anomalies in 
skeletal development and foetuses with hydropericardium starting at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg/day. Since 
signs  of  compromised  health  of  the  dams  were  observed  in  this  rabbit  study,  a  second  study  was 
performed.  In  the  second  study,  bazedoxifene  treatment  resulted  in  abortions  at  doses  of  0.5 
mg/kg/day, but no foetal effects were seen. Effects on reproductive and developmental toxicity were in 
general already observed below human therapeutic exposure levels.  
As  bazedoxifene showed adverse  effects on  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development  at  low  doses 
(0.03 mg/kg/day) in female rats, bazedoxifene is only for use in post-menopausal women. 
Due  to  lack  of  prenatal  and  postnatal  developmental  studies,  including  maternal  function,  toxicity 
observed in embryo-foetus and lack of knowledge concerning excretion into milk, bazedoxifene is not 
intended for use in breast-feeding women. 
Page 14 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated  
As the target population for the claimed indication is an adult population, i.e. postmenopausal women, 
no study in juvenile animals was performed. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data were obtained during the repeat-dose and reproduction toxicity studies. 
•  Local tolerance  
In  toxicity  studies,  bazedoxifene  was  administered  orally  by  gavage  and  is  administered  orally  in 
patients.  Therefore, local tolerance studies were not conducted.  In single-dose toxicity studies in rats 
and  monkeys  where  bazedoxifene  was  administered  IV,  no  macroscopic lesions  at  the injection  site 
were  noted  at  necropsy.    Because  of  a  lack  of  macroscopic  observations,  injection  sites  were  not 
examined microscopically.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
Bazedoxifene  was  not  antigenic  in  the  active  systemic  anaphylaxis  assay  in  guinea  pigs  or  in  the 
passive cutaneous anaphylaxis assay in mice, rats and guinea pigs. 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicity studies were not performed. This is acceptable in respect to immunosuppression since 
general toxicology and secondary PD data yielded no special concern in this regard. The clinical data 
did  not  indicate  any  significant  immunotoxic  effects  of  bazedoxifene-treatment  as  compared  to 
placebo and raloxifene. 
Phototoxicity 
Also, phototoxicity studies were not performed. According to the pharmaceutical documentation there 
is a small light absorption peak of bazedoxifene at 298 nm (larger peaks are at 226 nm and below 200 
nm).  The  European  Note  for  Guidance  on  Photosafety  Testing  (CPMP/SWP/398/01)  would  require 
such  testing  if  a  compound  will  absorb  light  with  a  wavelength  of  290  nm  upwards  and  will  be 
distributed to the skin (which is the case for bazedoxifene). However, based on the combination of low 
exposure  and  absence  of  toxicity  to  the  skin  and  eyes,  literature  indicating  that  binding  to  melanin 
containing  tissues  does  not  lead  to  ocular  toxicity,  and  bazedoxifene  being  absorbed  at  a  peak 
wavelength outside the visible range, phototoxicity testing was not conducted as it would not provide 
additional data that would alter the safety assessment of the compound.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  Applicant  provided  a  detailed  environmental  risk  assessment  on  bazedoxifene  including  a  PBT 
assessment,  an  assessment  for  the  aquatic  and  terrestrial  compartment  as  well  as  the  sediment.    No 
final  conclusion  could  be  reached  on  the  persistent  and  bioaccumulative  character  of  the  active 
substance. The applicant has committed to cover this issue as a follow-up measure. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
As monotherapy bazedoxifene has been studied since 1998 in humans. The submission is based on 20 
phase 1 studies (18 monotherapy, 2 bazedoxifene / CE), 3 phase 2 studies, and 2 phase 3 studies.  
The  efficacy  and  safety  conclusions  are  based  on  a  2-year,  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomized, 
placebo- and raloxifene-controlled, phase 3 study (300-GL) conducted in postmenopausal women for 
the prevention of osteoporosis and on a 3-year,  multicentre, double-blind, randomized, placebo- and 
raloxifene-controlled,  phase  3  study  (301-WW)  conducted  in  older,  osteoporotic  postmenopausal 
women  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis.  For  the  evaluation  of  safety  parameters  the  databases  of 
these studies were pooled for the 20 mg and 40 mg doses. The Applicant included an active control 
Page 15 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arm  in  both  phase  3  studies  that  would  allow  linking  to  existing  data  for  raloxifene  60  mg,  another 
SERM, approved and marketed in the EU for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.  
The  CHMP  Guideline  on  the  Evaluation  of  Medicinal  Products  in  the  Treatment  of  Primary 
Osteoporosis  was  revised  in  2007  (CPMP/EWP/552/95  Rev.  2,  effective  since  31  May  2007).  The 
regulatory  guidance  in  place  at  the  time  the  development  of  bazedoxifene  was  initiated  and 
subsequently  executed  was  Rev.  1  of  this  guideline,  effective  since  July  2001.  Revision  1  was  the 
basis  for  national  and  centralised  scientific  advice  received  in  2001  for  the  development  of 
bazedoxifene.  
However revision 2 no longer recognises prevention of osteoporosis as a separate indication per se and 
recommends including women at increased risk for fractures (10-year probability of 15% to 20% for 
vertebral fractures and 10% to 15% for major non-vertebral fractures) in clinical trials in support of the 
treatment of osteoporosis indication. As outlined in the revised guideline an indication for prevention 
of  osteoporosis  or  postmenopausal  bone  loss  will  not  be  specifically  granted  to  new  products. 
However, the prevention indication did not disappear but merged into the treatment indication, since 
the goal of therapy is not prevent osteoporosis per se but to prevent fractures. During the procedure, 
the applicant addressed this issue by rewording the indication to be in line with the current version of 
the guideline. 
GCP 
According  to  the applicant  all studies  have  been  performed  according  to  GCP  standards  effective  at 
time  of  conduct  of  the  studies.  The  CHMP  had  requested  a  GCP  inspection  of  the  clinical  study 
3068A1-301-WW. The inspection included investigator sites, as well as the sponsor and central lab. 
The investigator sites recruited nearly 18% of the subjects randomly assigned to the 4 study groups, 
respectively.  The  scope  of  this  inspection  was  to  verify  compliance  with  GCP  and  applicable 
regulations, in particular where it has an impact on the validity of the data or the ethical conduct of the 
study. The inspection revealed major, as well as critical deviations, the main problems relating to the 
larger site. Among them, the monitoring was considered as inadequate, since many AEs at the bigger 
site had not been discovered until subjects had finished the core trial. Deviations identified also related 
to the assessment and processing of DXA and X-ray.  
No signs of fraud at the sites have been detected and source data (hospital files, informed consents, 
diaries etc.) were generally available. For one large study site the data were deemed acceptable based 
on  the  re-monitoring  conducted  at  that  site.  Concerns  existed,  that  the  lack  of  focus  in  monitoring 
could have led also to under-reporting of AEs at sites, and whether therefore the safety of the use of 
bazedoxifene could sufficiently be established based on the data from study 301-WW. However, the 
trial was both placebo and active comparator-controlled and it can be assumed that the critical findings 
identified  are  independent  from  treatment  since  fraud  has  been  excluded  and  there  are  no  concerns 
about early unblinding.  
Therefore,  based  on  the  fact  that  overall  efficacy  and  safety  of  bazedoxifene  20  mg  appears  to  be 
comparable  to  that  of  raloxifene,  and  the  actions  taken  by  the  applicant,    it  was  considered  by  the 
CHMP that the findings did not jeopardize the use of data from study 301-WW for the evaluation of 
efficacy and safety of bazedoxifene in the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. 
To further reassure the validity of the provided data and the robustness of the findings the applicant 
has provided evaluations of the fracture data, as well as SAE with and without inclusion of data from 
the large study site. These evaluations do not indicate changes in the efficacy in fracture reduction or 
in the AE profile when data from this site are excluded from the analysis. Results were consistent with 
overall  analyses  of  the  entire  population  and  it  was  therefore  considered  by  the  CHMP  that  the 
findings  do  not  impact  the  reliability  or  interpretation  of  the  data.  In  addition  the  results  of  the 
adjudication/re-adjudication process of potential cerebrovascular event cases have been provided. The 
results are overall consistent with the non-adjudicated cerebrovascular safety analysis as reported by 
study  investigators  and  in  agreement  with  the  safety  assessment  based  on  the  initial  adjudication  of 
cerebrovascular events.  
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Page 16 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  of  bazedoxifene  were  solely  examined  in  postmenopausal  women.  The  mean 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  bazedoxifene  after  multiple  doses  in  healthy  postmenopausal 
ambulatory women who were naturally postmenopausal or who had undergone bilateral oophorectomy 
are summarized in Table 1 
Table 1. Mean ± SD pharmacokinetic parameters of bazedoxifene (n=23) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
tmax 
(h) 
t½ 
(h) 
AUC 
(ng(cid:120)h/ml) 
Cl/F 
(l/h/kg) 
Multiple dose 
20 mg/day 
6.2 ± 2.2 
1.7 ± 1.8 
28 ± 11 
82 ± 37 
4.1 ± 1.7 
•  Absorption  
Bazedoxifene is rapidly absorbed with a time to peak plasma concentration of approximately 2 hours 
(1 to 4 hours) after oral dosing and has a mean oral absolute oral bioavailability of 6%. Bazedoxifene 
appears  to  undergo  enterohepatic  recirculation  as  shown  by  a  second  peak  following  oral 
administration occasionally with a higher concentration than seen in the initial peak, resulting in some 
individual tmax values of up to 8 hours. Steady-state concentrations are achieved at the second week of 
daily dose administration with an approximate 2-fold accumulation, however, data are only given for 
day 1, day 7 and day 14, and, thus, it is not possible to determine when a plateau is reached. Pooled 
from phase I studies normalised to a 20 mg dose mean maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) was 3.9 
± 1.7 ng/ml after a single dose and 5.8 ± 2.3 ng/ml at steady-state, respectively. The overall data is 
shown in table 1. 
Bazedoxifene revealed a more or less pronounced food effect. Across food effect studies, increase in 
bazedoxifene  exposure  ranged  from  20  to  70%  when  bazedoxifene  was  administered  with  both  a 
medium-fat and a high-fat meal. When single doses of 20 mg bazedoxifene were administered with a 
high-fat meal, Cmax and AUC increased by 28% and 22%, respectively. An additional study evaluating 
the effects of a standardized medium-fat meal on the pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene at steady-state 
showed  a  42%  and  35%  increase  in  Cmax  and  AUC,  respectively,  when  20 mg  bazedoxifene  was 
administered with food. These changes were not considered clinically relevant by the CHMP, neither 
compromising safety nor efficacy, and therefore bazedoxifene can be administered independently from 
meals. 
•  Distribution 
Following intravenous administration of a 3 mg dose of bazedoxifene the mean volume of distribution 
is approximately 15 L/kg (14.7 ± 3.9 L/kg). Bazedoxifene is highly bound (95.8% - 99.3%) to plasma 
proteins in vitro. Binding to the proteins in plasma from postmenopausal women  was similar to the 
protein binding in plasma from women of childbearing age.  
•  Metabolism 
Bazedoxifene is extensively metabolised. Glucuronidation is the major metabolic pathway. The major 
radioactive component in plasma was the bazedoxifene-5-glucuronide constituting 40% to 95% of the 
radioactivity  in  plasma  at  all  time  points.  Unchanged  bazedoxifene  and  the  bazedoxifene-4'-
glucuronide  were  observed  in  small  amounts  (about  0%  to  20%).  The  major  route  of  excretion  of 
radiolabelled  bazedoxifene  was  the  faeces,  where  85%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  after  10  days. 
Excretion in urine represented a minor route of elimination of radioactivity. Less then 1% of the dose 
was eliminated in urine. 
•  Elimination 
Bazedoxifene  is  eliminated  with  a  mean  half-life  (t½)  of  approximately  30  hours.  Following 
intravenous administration, plasma clearance is 0.4 ± 0.1 L/h/kg. Mean apparent oral dose clearance 
(Cl/F) pooled from phase I studies normalised to a 20 mg dose was 6.2 ± 3.2 L/h/kg after a single dose 
and 5.2 ± 2.5 L/h/kg at steady-state, respectively. 
Page 17 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  for  single  doses  has  been  established  over  the  dose  range  of  5  to  120  mg. 
Accumulation of bazedoxifene after repeated doses is deemed time-invariant. 
•  Special populations 
Since bazedoxifene is primarily metabolised by glucuronidation with less than 1% excreted unchanged 
or  as  a  metabolite  in  the  urine,  a  decline  in  renal  function  was  not  expected  to  affect  the 
pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene. In moderate renal impairment, negligible amounts of bazedoxifene 
were  eliminated  in  urine,  and  the  impaired  renal  function  showed  little  or  no  influence  on 
bazedoxifene  pharmacokinetics,  thus  not  requiring  a  dosing  adjustment.  However,  information  on 
patients with severe renal impairment is too limited for definite conclusions, and this is reflected in the 
SPC. 
The  disposition  of  a  single  20 mg  dose  of  bazedoxifene  was  compared  in  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment  [Child-Pugh  Class  A  (n=6),  B  (n=6),  and  C  (n=6)]  and  subjects  with  normal  hepatic 
function  (n=18).  On  average,  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  showed  a  4.3-fold  increase  in  AUC 
compared with controls. Safety and efficacy have not been evaluated further in patients with hepatic 
insufficiency.  Therefore,  as  stated  in  the  SPC,  the  use  of  bazedoxifene  in  subjects  with  hepatic 
impairment is not recommended. 
Compared  to  women  51  to  64  years  of  age,  women  65  to  74  years  of  age  showed  a  1.5-fold  and 
women >75 years of age showed a 2.3-fold increase in bazedoxifene exposure. It was concluded, that 
this age dependence most likely reflects the observation, that bazedoxifene metabolism is reduced in 
subjects with impaired hepatic function and that hepatic function decreases with age. 
Race and body weight had no apparent meaningful influence on bazedoxifene exposure.  
The pharmacokinetics of bazedoxifene have not been studied in the paediatric population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Potential interactions between bazedoxifene and an aluminium hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide 
containing antacid (Maalox®)), ibuprofen, azithromycin, atorvastatin, and conjugated oestrogens (CE) 
were investigated in healthy postmenopausal women. 
Pharmacokinetics  of  bazedoxifene  were  not  affected  by  an  aluminium  hydroxide  and  magnesium 
hydroxide  containing  antacid  (Maalox®)  in  relevant  extent.  Ibuprofen  had  a  slight  effect  on  both 
bazedoxifene  Cmax  and  AUC.  Azithromycin  slightly  affected  bazedoxifene  AUC  and  CL/F. 
Atorvastatin  had  no  meaningful  effect  on  bazedoxifene  pharmacokinetics  when  both  drug  were 
administered  concomitantly.  Otherwise,  bazedoxifene  slightly  affected  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
atorvastatin and possibly the efficacy of atorvastatin.  
Bazedoxifene Cmax and AUC were increased when bazedoxifene and CE were administered together in 
a combination tablet compared to bazedoxifene alone tablet. These changes were considered possibly 
due  to  a  metabolic  interaction  between  bazedoxifene  and  CE  or  due  to  formulations  differences 
between the combination and monotherapy tablets.  
Bazedoxifene does  not inhibit  CYP  enzymes  in  human  liver  microsomes. Therefore, it  is  concluded 
that the drug has a rather low probability to interact with co-administered drugs that are metabolized 
by  CYP  enzymes.  Additionally,  it  has  been  shown  that  the  potential  for  a  drug-drug  interaction 
between  bazedoxifene  and  co-administered  warfarin,  diazepam,  or  digoxin,  due  to  alterations  of 
protein binding with bazedoxifene, is low. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Bazedoxifene is a third-generation selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM) which is thought to 
exhibit  tissue-selective  agonist  activity  on  the  skeleton  and  lipid  metabolism  while  acting  as  an 
antagonist on breast and uterine tissue. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Bone  mineral  density  was  not  investigated  in  the  phase  2  trials;  bone  turnover  markers  have  been 
investigated in all phase II studies. 
Page 18 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  an  ascending  multiple  dose  study  (30  consecutive  daily  doses)  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
bazedoxifene  was  examined,  and  it  was  also  attempted  to  establish  some  information  on  the 
pharmacodynamics  of  the  compound  by  examining  lipids  (LDL  cholesterol,  HDL  cholesterol,  and 
triglycerides), coagulation parameters, and various bone markers. Regarding the urinary bone marker 
N-telopeptide, there was a distinctive concentration-effect relationship in which the maximum effect is 
approximately  a  20%  reduction  from  baseline  and  the  concentration  required  to  produce  a  50% 
maximum effect is approximately 500 pg/mL. Based on these data, it appeared that a dose between 5 
and  10  mg  of  bazedoxifene  (achieving  approximately  1  ng/mL  bazedoxifene)  has  a  pharmacologic 
effect after 30 days of administration to postmenopausal women. 
Bazedoxifene revealed no effect on lipoprotein(a) and coagulation parameters, with the exception of 
fibrinogen levels, which appeared to decrease. Bazedoxifene has no obvious effect on the incidence of 
hot flushes, on endometrial thickening and on the incidence of ovarian cyst. 
Bazedoxifene showed no clinically relevant effects on cardiac repolarisation after a therapeutic dose of 
20 mg as well as after a high dose of 120 mg. 
Clinical efficacy  
Clinical  efficacy  are  based  on  3  phase  2  studies  (200-BR,  204-US/CA,  and  205-CN),  a  large, 
multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized,  placebo-  and  raloxifene-controlled,  phase  3  study  (300-GL), 
and  the  results  of  a  pre-specified  analysis  of  36-month  data  from  a  large,  on-going,  multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo- and raloxifene-controlled, 5-year phase 3 study (301-WW). 
Completed Clinical Studies of Efficacy With Bazedoxifene 
Study  
Title  
200-BR  
A double-blind, 
randomized, controlled 
study of the effects of 
TSE-424 on biochemical 
markers of bone 
metabolism in healthy 
postmenopausal women  
204-US/CA  
A multicenter, double-
blind, randomized, 
active-and-placebo-
controlled pilot trial of 
the vasomotor effect of 
TSE-424 in non-flushing 
postmenopausal women 
Objectives 
Enrolled 
Enrolled/Completed 
Subjects 
595 
Primary: To evaluate the effects of 
bazedoxifene on urinary N-telopeptide 
(NTx) in postmenopausal women. 
Secondary:  To evaluate the effects of 
bazedoxifene on other urinary and serum 
biochemical bone markers, lipids, 
coagulation factors, vaginal maturation 
index, the incidences of vasomotor 
symptoms, mastalgia, and vaginal bleeding 
and to evaluate the safety and tolerability 
of bazedoxifene given once daily for 
168 consecutive days. 
60/59 
60/55 
58/56 
60/51 
Part 1: 
BZA 2.5 mg  
BZA 5 mg  
BZA 10 mg  
BZA 20 mg  
Premarin  0.625 mg/ 
MPA 2.5 mg   59/57 
Placebo  
59/58 
Part 2: 
BZA 20 mg  
BZA 30 mg  
BZA 40 mg  
Placebo  
60/55 
60/55 
60/58 
59/55 
487 
BZA 5 mg  
BZA 10 mg  
BZA 20 mg  
RLX 60 mg  
Placebo  
96/89 
101/90 
98/89 
98/89 
94/86 
Primary: To evaluate and compare the 
effect of bazedoxifene with placebo on the 
incidence of subjects experiencing hot 
flushes in a non-flushing postmenopausal 
population. 
Secondary:  To evaluate the effects of 
bazedoxifene on the mean number and 
severity of hot flushes, the serum lipids, 
and the biochemical indices of bone 
metabolism, and to evaluate and compare 
the effect of 60 mg of raloxifene and 
placebo on the incidence of subjects 
experiencing hot flushes. 
Page 19 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study  
Title  
205-CN  
A double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled study of the 
effects of bazedoxifene 
acetate on biochemical 
markers of bone 
metabolism in healthy 
postmenopausal women 
300-GL  
A double-blind, 
randomized, controlled 
study of the effects of 
TSE-424 on biochemical 
markers of bone 
metabolism in healthy 
postmenopausal women   
301-WW  
A multicenter, double-
blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled, 
calcium and vitamin D 
supplemented, phase 3 
study for reduction of 
fracture risk in 
postmenopausal women 
with osteoporosis  
Objectives 
Enrolled 
Enrolled/Completed 
Subjects 
227 
BZA 20 mg  
BZA 40 mg  
Placebo  
59/57 
63/62 
105/96 
1583 
BZA 10 mg  
BZA 20 mg  
BZA 40 mg  
RLX 60 mg  
Placebo  
321/218 
322/224 
319/222 
311/224 
310/225 
7492 
BZA 20 mg   1886/1254b 
BZA 40 mg   1872/1229b 
RLX 60 mg   1849/1252b 
1885/1256b 
Placebo  
Primary: To evaluate the effects of 
bazedoxifene on biochemical markers of 
bone metabolism in postmenopausal 
women. 
Secondary:  To evaluate the safety and 
tolerability of bazedoxifene given once 
daily for 3 months. 
Primary: To evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of bazedoxifene in comparison 
with those of placebo and raloxifene in 
preventing osteoporosis in postmenopausal 
women. 
Secondary:  To evaluate the effect of 
bazedoxifene in comparison with that of 
placebo and raloxifene on endometrium, 
metabolic parameters, vasomotor 
symptoms, adverse events, and quality of 
life.  Samples were collected for 
population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
Primary: To evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of bazedoxifene compared with 
placebo in the reduction of risk for 
radiographically confirmed new vertebral 
fractures in postmenopausal osteoporotic 
women after 36 and 60 months of therapy. 
Secondary:  To evaluate the effect of 
bazedoxifene compared with raloxifene 
60 mg and placebo on breast cancer 
incidence, clinical vertebral fractures, 
worsening vertebral fractures, non-
vertebral fractures, height changes, bone 
mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar 
spine and hip, serum bone markers, lipid 
parameters, QoL, and effects on 
endometrium and bone histomorphometry 
after 36 months of therapy.  In addition, 
the efficacy of raloxifene 60 mg to placebo 
in reducing the incidence of new vertebral 
and other (non-vertebral) fractures after 36 
months of treatment was to be compared.  
A 2-year double-blind study extension will 
provide additional safety and efficacy data. 
BZA = bazedoxifene; CE = conjugated oestrogens; MPA = medroxyprogesterone acetate; RLX = raloxifene;  
QoL = quality of life. 
a.  Subjects who took at least 1 dose of study drug. 
b.  Completed the 3-year core study. 
The two pivotal efficacy studies were also intended to determine the final therapeutic dose.  
•  Dose response studies 
The dose finding studies comprised 3 phase 2 studies.  
Page 20 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 200-BR (CSR-36893) 
The primary objective was to evaluate the effects of 6 doses of bazedoxifene (2.5, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 
mg) on the surrogate marker urinary N-telopeptide (NTx) in postmenopausal women. Part 1 (200-BR) 
examined 2.5, 5, 10, and 20 mg bazedoxifene, placebo, and conjugated oestrogens (CE) / MPA. Per 
protocol amendment, it was decided to also study higher doses of bazedoxifene; therefore part 2 (200-
BR-Ext) examined 20, 30, and 40 mg bazedoxifene, and placebo. 
Healthy postmenopausal women were eligible. Premarin 0.625 mg / MPA 2.5 mg was included as an 
active control group. The primary efficacy parameter was urinary NTx after 88 days of treatment in 
the ITT population. 
In part 1 of the study, after 84 days of treatment, no significant differences in urinary NTx levels were 
found for any of the primary comparisons between the bazedoxifene and placebo groups, however, a 
significantly (p < 0.001) greater decrease in urinary NTx levels was seen with CE 0.625 mg / MPA 2.5 
mg than with placebo and all bazedoxifene doses. By 6 months of treatment, bazedoxifene induced a 
greater decrease from baseline than placebo in urinary NTx that approached statistical significance at 
10 mg (median decrease -25.0%; p = 0.057 vs -14.4% for placebo) and that was statistically significant 
for 20 mg bazedoxifene (-33.2%; p < 0.001). Overall, CTx displayed the same dose response as NTx. 
In part 2 of the study bazedoxifene 40 mg demonstrated the greatest inhibition of resorption; median 
decreases in urinary NTx at month 3 were -35.0% compared with -25.9% in the placebo group (p = 
0.028); decreases at month 6 were -37.9% compared with -29.7% in the placebo group (p = 0.012). 
These  results  were  supported  by  a  more  rapid  effect on  bone  resorption  as indicated  by  serum  CTx 
(median decrease 3 months -33.1%; p < 0.001), and by significant (p < 0.05) decreases of at least 41% 
in urinary CTx.  
In both parts a dose response was observed, with higher reductions in markers of bone turnover seen in 
the  highest  bazedoxifene dose  groups. The  data  indicate that  dosages  below  10 mg  of  bazedoxifene 
may not provide sufficient inhibition of bone resorption.  
Regarding the secondary endpoints, an influence on reduction in TC and LDL-C was only seen in part 
2 with the 40 mg dose. No significant change from baseline in TG was seen.  
There  was  no  consistent  effect  of  bazedoxifene  on  the  Vaginal  Maturation  Index  (VMI)  at  2.5 mg 
through 20 mg bazedoxifene, while there was a reduction in the VMI at month 6 for the bazedoxifene 
30 and 40 mg treatment groups. 
Bazedoxifene 2.5 to 20 mg did not increase the incidence of flushing compared to placebo; however 
among subjects experiencing hot flushes, the number per week was significantly greater than placebo, 
The severity was significantly (p < 0.05) greater than placebo only for the 20 mg bazedoxifene dose at 
month 3  and  6.    There  were  no  significant  differences  from  placebo  for  incidence,  the  number  per 
week,  or  the  severity  of  hot  flushes  at  doses  of  20  or  30 mg  from  3  through  6  months.    In  subjects 
treated for 3 months with 40 mg of bazedoxifene, the number of hot flushes per week and the severity 
of hot flushes were significantly (p < 0.05) greater than in subjects who received placebo; a significant 
difference was not observed at month 6. 
Study 204-US/CA (CSR-35056) 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  5  mg,  10 mg,  and  20  mg  of  bazedoxifene 
compared  to  placebo  and  raloxifene  60 mg  on  the  incidence  of  subjects  experiencing  hot  flushes  in 
non-flushing postmenopausal women during 12 weeks of treatment. 
The primary efficacy parameter was the incidence of subjects in the ITT population experiencing hot 
flushes as assessed by daily flush diary. Secondary parameters were additional parameters with regard 
to hot flushes, serum lipids, biochemical indices of bone metabolism, and QoL, the outcome of which 
did not deliver definitive conclusions. 
There  were  no  significant  differences  in  the  incidence  of  hot  flushes  between  any  of  the  treatment 
groups  in  the  ITT  and  PP  populations.  No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  groups  in 
total  severity  of  hot  flushes  over  each  4-week  period  in  the  ITT  population;  in  the  PP  population, 
however,  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg  treatment  group showed  a  significant  (p = 0.030)  increase  in total 
severity at weeks 9 to 12 compared to placebo.  
Page 21 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 205-CN (CSR-45948) 
The primary objective was to evaluate the effects of 2 doses of bazedoxifene, 20 mg and 40 mg, on 
biochemical markers of bone metabolism in postmenopausal women. 
After  3  months  of  treatment,  both  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg  demonstrated  a  statistically 
significant decrease in urinary CTx normalized by urinary creatinine compared to placebo. 
Results  of  analysis  of  secondary  efficacy  variables  of  bone  metabolism  were  similar;  serum 
osteocalcin, serum CTx and urinary NTx were reduced statistically significant compared to placebo. 
No statistically significant changes were seen in serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase values at 3 
months in any of the treatment groups. 
•  Main studies 
Based on the results of these studies, 2 dosages, 20 mg and 40 mg, of bazedoxifene were selected to be 
studied  in  the  phase 3  clinical  program.  Since  the  dosages  to  prevent  bone  loss  may  be  lower  as 
compared  with  dosages  needed  to reduce  the  risk  of  fracture  in  established  osteoporosis, the  10  mg 
dosage was added to the phase 3 prevention study 300-GL.  
Based on national and centralised scientific advice the main clinical studies had been designed to be in 
line with the CHMP Guideline on the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of Primary 
Osteoporosis (CPMP/EWP/552/95 Rev. 1), which was effective from July 2001 until 31 May 2007. 
Both  phase  3  studies  were  outpatient,  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-  and 
raloxifene-controlled trials.  
The phase 3 study 300-GL, as well as the phase 2 studies, enrolled healthy, relatively young (mean age 
52 to 58 years) postmenopausal women, at risk of rapid bone loss (> 1 to < 5 years postmenopausal) or 
osteopenic, with at least 1 risk factor for osteoporosis.  
The phase 3 study 301-WW enrolled postmenopausal women (mean age 66 years) with osteoporosis, 
defined  as  either  the  presence  of  at  least  1  prevalent  vertebral  fracture  or  a  BMD  value  in  the 
osteoporotic range. Similarly, the mean number of years since the last menstrual period was greater in 
study 301-WW (19.5 years) than in the other studies (5 to 11 years). 
Study 300-GL 
METHODS 
Study  300-GL  was  a  5-arm,  outpatient,  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-  and 
raloxifene controlled study in postmenopausal women. It examined the effect of bazedoxifene 10 mg, 
20 mg, and 40 mg as well as raloxifene 60 mg and placebo on BMD over a period of up to 24 months. 
It  was  designed  as  an  “osteoporosis  prevention”  trial,  with  inclusion  criteria  and  primary  endpoint 
considered to be in line with Revision 1 of the Guideline on Osteoporosis.  
Study Participants  
Included were healthy women > 45 years of age and either ≥ 1 year postmenopausal or ≥ 1 year since 
surgical  menopause  (bilateral  oophorectomy),  with  women  ≤ 5  years  since  the  event  fulfilling 
additional biochemical criteria. 
In addition, patients had to qualify for 1 of the following osteoporosis risk-related categories: 
−  > 1 year and < 5 years postmenopausal with at least 1 of the following risk factors: 
o  BMD T-score at lumbar spine or at femoral neck ≥ -1 and ≤ -2.5  
o  Family history of fracture 
o  Bilateral oophorectomy 
o  Current history of smoking 
o  Small-boned or thin frame (weight < 58 kg) 
o  Inadequate intake of calcium 
o  Little or no weight-bearing exercise 
−  > 5 years postmenopausal with BMD T-score at lumbar spine or at femoral neck between ≥ -
1 and ≤ -2.5 with at least 1 of the following risk factors: 
o  · Family history of fracture 
o  · Bilateral oophorectomy 
Page 22 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  · Menopause occurring at or before the age of 40 years 
o  · Current history of smoking 
o  · Small-boned and/or thin frame (weight < 58 kg) 
o  · Inadequate intake of calcium 
o  · Little or no weight-bearing exercise. 
Treatments 
Patients received bazedoxifene 10 mg, 20 mg, and 40 mg as well as raloxifene 60 mg and placebo over 
a  period  of  up  to  24  months.  Patients  received  additional  600 mg  of  elemental  calcium  as  calcium 
carbonate as a supplement. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 3 doses of bazedoxifene 
compared  to  placebo  and  to  raloxifene  in  preventing  osteoporosis  (i.e.  maintaining  BMD)  in 
postmenopausal women. Among secondary objectives were the effects of bazedoxifene in comparison 
with that of placebo and raloxifene on endometrium, metabolic parameters, vasomotor symptoms, AE. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was percentage change from baseline in BMD of the lumbar spine (L1 to L4) at 
the  month 24  assessment.  All  BMD  measurements  were  evaluated  centrally  and  after  screening  all 
BMD data remained blinded throughout the study. 
Secondary efficacy variables were: all other BMD evaluations including total hip, femoral neck, and 
femoral trochanter, as well as serum bone markers (CTx and osteocalcin); a lipid panel and the results 
of the WHQ. 
Sample size 
Sample  size  and  study  designs  were  considered  adequate,  specifically  with  regard  to  the  chosen 
inclusion criteria and primary endpoint according to Revision 1 of the Guideline on the Evaluation of 
Medicinal Products in the Treatment of Primary Osteoporosis (CPMP/EWP/552/95).  
Randomisation, Blinding, Statistical methods 
These were considered to be adequate. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
4767  patients  were  screened,  1735  patients  were  randomly  assigned  to  the  5  study  groups,  and  of 
these, a total of 1583 subjects were included in the efficacy and safety analyses 
Recruitment 
4767  patients  were  screened  and  of  these  3032  did  not  meet  the  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria 
leaving 1735 patients to be randomly assigned to the 5 study groups 
Conduct of the study 
The  study  was  conducted in  Canada,  Europe,  and  the  United  States.  An  amendment  of  the  protocol 
resulted in slight changes of some of the inclusion criteria.  
The study was terminated at 3 sites, which had randomly assigned 104 patients to treatment, for issues 
related  to  GCP  and  the  data  from  these  sites  were  not  included  in  either  the  final  study  efficacy  or 
safety analyses. It is not expected that the small number and nature of the protocol violations in this 
study might affect the integrity of the study. 
Baseline data 
The  baseline  data  did  not  reveal  any  relevant  differences  between  groups  and  multiplicity  has 
adequately been controlled for. Approximately 93% of the subjects were white. Approximately 88% 
of  the  subjects  had  natural  menopause  and  approximately  12%  were  surgically  menopausal. 
Approximately  one  third  of  the  study  subjects  had  had  a  hysterectomy.  The  mean  age  for  each 
Page 23 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment group was approximately 57 years. The mean weight in each treatment group ranged from 
67.0 to 68.7 kg, with a mean BMI of approximately 25 kg/m2. The mean number of years since the last 
menstrual period was 10.9 years. The mean baseline T-scores at the lumbar spine ranged from -1.12 to 
-1.24; the corresponding mean baseline T-scores at the total hip ranged from -0.70 to -0.83 
Numbers analysed 
The discontinuation was slightly lower in the raloxifene arm (28.0%) compared to bazedoxifene arms 
(30.4-32.1%). Discontinuation due to AE demonstrated a positive trend over the bazedoxifene doses 
and was higher than in the raloxifene arm for all doses. However, discontinuation due to AE was also 
lower in the raloxifene arm compared to placebo.  
A total of 1583 subjects were included in the efficacy and safety analyses. Of these, there were 1434 
subjects in the ITT population, 1402 in the PP1 population, 1055 in the PP2 population, and 1226 in 
the  MITT  population  for  the  primary  endpoint.  For  the  secondary  assessments,  these  figures  were 
1430, 1398, 1047, and 1218 patients respectively 
Outcomes and estimation 
Bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg  prevented  bone  loss  at  both  the  lumbar  spine  and  total  hip  while  a 
significant (p < 0.05) bone loss was observed for the placebo group.  Similar results were observed at 
the femoral neck and femoral trochanter.  The effects were evident from 6 months onwards. At month 
24, the BMD of the lumbar spine and total hip was statistically significant (p < 0.001) greater with all 
bazedoxifene treatment groups than with the placebo group. Significant treatment effects were evident 
with  all  bazedoxifene  treatment  groups  within  the  first  6 months  of  therapy  and  were  preserved 
through  the  study.    The  mean  differences  (±  SE)  between  the  placebo  group  and  bazedoxifene 
treatment  groups  in  the  change  in  BMD  from  baseline  to  month  24  for  the  lumbar  spine  were 
1.08% (± 0.28%), 1.41% (± 0.28%), and 1.49% (± 0.28%) for bazedoxifene 10 mg, 20 mg, and 40 mg, 
respectively, and 1.29% (± 0.21%), 1.75% (± 0.21%), and 1.60% (± 0.21%), respectively, for the total 
hip.  All  bazedoxifene  dose  groups  met  the  prespecified  criteria  for  non  inferiority  to  the  raloxifene 
60 mg group for lumbar spine and total hip.  
Page 24 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Percentage Change From Baseline in BMD of Lumbar Spine and Total Hip (ITT) 
Lumbar Spine 
Total Hip 
□ = Bazedoxifene 10 mg; ◊ = Bazedoxifene 20 mg; + = Bazedoxifene 40 mg; ∆ = Raloxifene 60 mg; ● = Placebo. 
This  is  supported  by  the  responder  analysis  provided,  clearly  showing  a  lower  percentage  of 
responders on bazedoxifene 10 mg compared to bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg and raloxifene 60 mg. 
The percentage of responders was comparable between the latter groups. Reductions in levels of bone 
markers were consistently greater in the bazedoxifene 10 mg, 20 mg, and 40 mg treatment groups than 
in the placebo group and sustained through month 24.  
Page 25 of 49 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Responder Analysis: Percentage Change from Baseline in BMD of Lumbar Spine at Month 24 (ITT) 
Despite  comparable  effects  on  BMD  in  this  study  between  bazedoxifene  and  raloxifene  treatment 
groups  decrease  in  markers  of  bone turnover  differed:  At  all  time  points evaluated, the decreases  in 
serum CTx levels and serum osteocalcin were significantly greater with bazedoxifene 10 mg, 20 mg, 
and  40 mg  compared  to  placebo.  However  decreases  observed  with  raloxifene  60 mg  were  always 
greater than those seen with the bazedoxifene treatment groups. 
Assessment of markers of lipid metabolism did not reveal any unexpected or critical finding. 
Ancillary analyses 
A prespecified subgroup analysis by year since menopause ≤ and > 5 years overall confirmed results 
obtained  for  the  complete  study  population.  However,  effects  of  bazedoxifene  10 mg  are  clearly 
distinguished  of  those  of  the  20 mg  and  40 mg  doses  in  the  higher  risk  group  > 5  years  since 
menopause, but not in those ≤ 5 years and in the group of subjects postmenopausal for at least 1 year 
and less than 5 years, non inferiority to raloxifene could be demonstrated for the bazedoxifene 10 and 
20 mg but not for the 40 mg group after month 18. 
Page 26 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Percentage Change From Baseline in BMD of the Lumbar Spine, Years Since Menopause (ITT) 
□ = Bazedoxifene 10 mg, ◊ = Bazedoxifene 20 mg, + = Bazedoxifene 40 mg, ∆ = Raloxifene 60 mg, ● = Placebo. 
Study 301-WW 
Study  301-WW  is  considered  the  main  (pivotal)  trial.  Inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  and  primary 
endpoint were mainly in line with Revision 1 of the Guideline on Osteoporosis and scientific advice 
received  by  the  applicant  with  the  exception  of  exclusion  of  women  with  a  very  high  risk  of 
osteoporotic  fractures.  According  to  the  applicant  this  is  due  to  ethical  considerations  regarding  the 
placebo-control  included  in  this  study,  which  was  considered  to  be  a  valid  argument.  A  2-year 
double-blind study extension to provide cumulative long-term data is ongoing. 
METHODS 
Study  301-WW  was  a  4-arm,  outpatient,  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-  and 
raloxifene  controlled  study  over  3  years  in  postmenopausal  osteoporotic  women,  conducted  in 
Asia/Pacific  countries,  Canada,  Europe,  Latin  America,  South  Africa,  and  the  United  States. 
Treatment groups included bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg, raloxifene 60 mg, and placebo.  
Study Participants  
Inclusion Criteria in the Core Study were: 
−  Generally healthy postmenopausal women  
Page 27 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Age 55 to 85 years (non-US countries)  
o  Age 55 to 80 years (US only) 
−  At least 2 years postmenopausal defined by any of the following: 
o  Last natural menstrual cycle ≥ 2 years before screening; or, 
o  Over 60 years of age; or, 
o  Surgical menopause (bilateral oophorectomy) ≥ 2 years before screening. 
−  Osteoporotic subjects without vertebral fracture: 
o  In  non-US  countries:  BMD  T-score  at  the  femoral  neck  or  lumbar  spine  of  –2.5  or 
worse without the presence of a vertebral fracture.  
o  In US only BMD T-score at the femoral neck or lumbar spine between –2.5 and –4.0 
(inclusive) without the presence of a vertebral fracture. 
or 
−  Osteoporotic subjects with vertebral fracture: 
o  In  non-US  countries:  presence  of  1  -  5  mild  or  moderate  asymptomatic  vertebral 
fracture(s) and lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD T-score not worse than –3.5. 
o  In  US  only:  presence  of  1  mild  asymptomatic  vertebral  fracture  and  a  lumbar  spine 
and femoral neck BMD T-score not worse than -4.0. 
Treatments 
Patients  received  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg,  raloxifene  60 mg,  and  placebo  over  3  years.  All 
patients  were  supplemented  with  approximately  1200 mg  of  calcium  and  400 IU  of  vitamin  D, 
depending on local standards.  
Objectives 
The primary objectives of this study were to evaluate the safety and efficacy of bazedoxifene 20 mg 
and 40 mg in the reduction of new radiographically confirmed vertebral fractures in postmenopausal 
osteoporotic  women  compared  to  placebo.  Among  the  secondary  objectives  were:  to  evaluate  the 
effect  of  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg  compared  with  raloxifene  60 mg  and  placebo  on  breast 
cancer  incidence,  clinical  vertebral  fractures,  worsening  vertebral  fractures,  non-vertebral  fractures, 
height changes, BMD of the lumbar spine and hip, serum bone markers, lipid parameters, QoL, and 
effects on endometrium and bone histomorphometry.  
An additional secondary objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of raloxifene 60 mg with 
placebo in reducing the incidence of new vertebral and other (non vertebral) fractures after 36 months 
of treatment. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  cumulative  incidence  of  new  radiographically  confirmed  vertebral 
fractures  of  the  thoracic  and  lumbar  spine  (T4-L4)  from  baseline  to  month  36  (Kaplan-Meier). 
Fracture  incidence  was  also  analyzed  based  on  subject  vertebral  fracture  status  at  baseline.  All 
radiographs were evaluated centrally.  
Secondary  endpoints  were 
(all 
osteoporosis-related, hip, or wrist fractures), and of clinical and worsening vertebral fractures. Further 
secondary endpoints were percentage changes from baseline in BMD of the lumbar spine, total hip, 
femoral  neck,  and  femoral  trochanter,  serum  bone  marker  measurements,  qualitative  assessment  of 
changes  in  bone  histomorphometry  at  month  24,  comparison  of  raloxifene  60 mg  to  placebo  in 
reducing the incidence of new vertebral fractures and other fractures after 36 months of treatment, and 
QoL questionnaire scores  
incidence  of  breast  cancer,  of  non-vertebral 
fractures 
Sample size 
Sample  size  and  study  designs  were  considered  adequate,  specifically  with  regard  to  the  chosen 
inclusion criteria and primary endpoint according to Revision 1 of the Guideline on the Evaluation of 
Medicinal Products in the Treatment of Primary Osteoporosis (CPMP/EWP/552/95).  
Randomisation and Blinding 
Randomization  was  stratified  to  ensure  that  the  distribution  of  subjects  with  vertebral  fracture  was 
equal across treatment groups. Randomisation and blinding were considered to be adequate. 
Page 28 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Primary analysis was in the ITT population, defined as all subjects randomly assigned to a treatment 
group,  had  recorded  at  least  1  dose  of  test  article,  and  had  a  baseline  and  an  on-therapy  vertebral 
radiographic assessment. New vertebral fracture data were assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates of 
fracture incidence  and  unadjusted  estimates  of  fracture  incidence.  Between-group  comparisons  were 
performed using log-rank test at 0.05 level, and hazard ratio estimates were based on Cox proportional 
hazard regression, adjusted for baseline vertebral status fracture and baseline BMD T-score. 
The  non-vertebral  fractures  were  considered  the  secondary  endpoint  of  greatest  interest.  Analyses 
were  based  on  data  from  principal  investigators  and  on  adjudicated  data  from  the  Clinical  Fracture 
Adjudication Board reviews. Kaplan-Meier estimates of the incidence of non-vertebral fractures were 
calculated  for  each  treatment  group  and  between-group  comparisons  were  performed  using  the 
log-rank test at the 0.05 level.  
The statistical methods were considered to be adequate. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
7609 subjects were randomly assigned to a study group. 7492 of these were included in the efficacy 
and safety analyses.  
These  7492  subjects  are  included  in  the  safety  population,  while  only  6847  met  the  criteria  to  be 
included in the ITT population for the primary efficacy analysis. The ITT population for assessments 
of  the  secondary  study  parameters,  BMD  of  the  lumbar  spine,  total  hip,  femoral  neck,  and  femoral 
trochanter, comprised 6956, 6916, 6941, and 6941 subjects, respectively. 649, 137, and 403 subjects 
were included in the  endometrial  safety,  bone  histomorphometry,  and  ECG  substudies, respectively. 
4991 (67%) subjects completed the 3 years of the core study. 
AE was the most common reason for discontinuation, followed by “subject request unrelated to study 
AE”.  With  exception  of  the  “unsatisfactory  response  –  lack  of  efficacy”  category  (p  =  0.007),  no 
significant differences existed among the treatment groups for the total number of subjects who were 
withdrawn from the study or the reasons for withdrawal. Subjects who had a new vertebral fracture at 
any  time  during  the  study  or  a  ≥ 7%  decrease  in  BMD  of  the  lumbar  spine  or  hip  were  to  be 
withdrawn. 75 (4.0%) subjects in the placebo group were withdrawn for this reason compared with 52 
(2.8%),  52  (2.8%),  and  39  (2.1%)  subjects  in  the  bazedoxifene  20  mg,  bazedoxifene  40  mg,  and 
raloxifene 60 mg treatment groups, respectively, and the difference between the placebo and the active 
treatment groups was statistically significant (p < 0.01). 
Recruitment 
26,749 subjects were screened; of these 19,140 did not meet the inclusion and exclusion requirements. 
7609  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  a  study  group.  117  of  these  never  received  test  article, 
mostly  because  they  withdrew  consent,  and  are  not  included  in  any  analyses.  The  remaining  7492 
participants were included in the efficacy and safety analyses.  
Conduct of the study 
During  the  conduct  of  the  core  study  there  were  5  amendments  to  the  original  study  protocol.  The 
amendments  primarily  reflected  concerns  of  local  IRBs  and  IECs  as  well  as  investigators  about 
preventing the enrolment of subjects at high risk for vertebral fracture determined by baseline T-scores 
and  the  severity  of  prevalent  vertebral  fractures.  Amendment  3  allowed  enrolment  of  osteoporotic 
women without fractures, and increased the total number of subjects to be included in the study.  
The  data  on  discontinuation  due  to  AE  confirm  findings  from  study  300-GL.  There  was  a  slight 
positive  trend  for  discontinuation  over  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg  groups  and  the  rate  was 
lowest in the raloxifene 60 mg group, including placebo. Nature and number of protocol violations in 
this study do not indicate that the integrity of the study was systematically affected 
Baseline data 
The demographic and baseline characteristics did not reveal significant differences between treatment 
groups.  Participants  were  healthy  postmenopausal  women  with  a  mean  age  of  66.4  years;  the  mean 
number  of  years  since  the  last  menstrual  period  was  approximately  19.5 years.  Approximately  91% 
Page 29 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
had  natural  menopause  and  approximately  9%  were surgically  menopausal;  approximately  21%  had 
had  a  hysterectomy.  The  study  included  mostly  Caucasian  (87.3%)  subjects.    Mean  weight  across 
groups  ranged  from  64.5 kg  to  65.4 kg.  The  mean  BMI  was  26.5 kg/m2.  The  mean  LS  and  FN 
T-scores at baseline were -2.4 and -1.7, respectively. 
About  56%  of  participants  had  at  least  1  prevalent  fracture.  Among  participants  with  prevalent 
vertebral  fracture,  73%  had  1,  19%  had  2,  and  about  8%  had  3  or  more  prevalent  fractures.  The 
severity  of  prevalent  fractures  was  classified  as  mild,  moderate,  or  severe  fracture  using  a  semi 
quantitative methodology. The majority (65%) had 1 mild prevalent fracture.  
Numbers analysed 
See above 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Endpoint 
Vertebral fractures  
There  was  a clinically  significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures  compared to 
placebo for both bazedoxifene doses tested; the effects were independent of baseline status, apparent 
from 24 month of treatment onwards, statistically significant at 36 month of treatment and comparable 
to raloxifene treatment. After 36 months of treatment, the Kaplan-Meier rate estimates of cumulative 
fracture  incidence  for  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg,  the  raloxifene  60 mg  and  placebo  were 
2.34%,  2.51%,  2.34%,  and  4.07%,  respectively.  For  the  months  0  to  24  interval,  the  Kaplan-Meier 
estimates  of  cumulative  fracture  incidence  were  1.72%,  1.87%,  1.73%,  and  2.54%  respectively. 
Subgroup analysis by baseline vertebral fracture status endorses the assumption of a consistent effect 
across subgroups. However, this treatment effect was statistically significant only in the subgroup of 
subjects with ≥ 1 prevalent fracture at baseline, i.e. in the subjects with a higher risk. No statistically 
significant effect on the fracture incidence of neither bazedoxifene nor raloxifene was evident among 
subjects without a prevalent fracture at baseline. . In the analyses stratified on baseline fracture status,  
the PP analysis as a secondary analysis (with ITT considered as the primary one) showed statistically 
significant risk reductions only with raloxifene. 
Table 3: Summary Tabulation New Vertebral Fracture Incidence (ITT), Months 0 to 36 
Treatment Group 
Comparator 
Kaplan-Meier Rate 
Estimate (%) 
Lower Limit 
95% CI 
Upper Limit 
95% CI 
Hazard 
Ratio 
Lower 95% 
Limit 
Upper 95% 
Limit 
Overall 
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Placebo 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Placebo 
Raloxifene 60 mg  
Placebo 
No Prevalent Fractures 
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Placebo 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Placebo 
Raloxifene 60 mg  
Placebo 
≥ 1 Prevalent Fracture 
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Placebo 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Placebo 
Raloxifene 60 mg  
Placebo 
2.51 
2.34 
2.34 
2.14 
1.98 
1.84 
2.80 
2.63 
2.74 
1.81 
1.68 
1.67 
1.25 
1.15 
1.04 
1.86 
1.73 
1.81 
3.47 
3.25 
3.26 
3.67 
3.40 
3.22 
4.20 
3.98 
4.14 
0.634 
0.584 
0.581 
0.647 
0.647 
0.592 
0.624 
0.551 
0.574 
0.419 
0.383 
0.381 
0.322 
0.322 
0.289 
0.373 
0.324 
0.340 
0.960 
0.891 
0.887 
1.301 
1.302 
1.212 
1.045 
0.937 
0.968 
Hazard ratio estimation based on Cox proportional hazard regression, adjusted for baseline BMD T-score 
Page 30 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Incident Vertebral Fractures (ITT), Months 0 to 36 
The relative risk reduction (RRR = 1.000 - hazard ratio) in cumulative vertebral fracture incidence for 
the bazedoxifene 20 mg treatment group compared with placebo was 42%, and for the bazedoxifene 
40 mg treatment group compared with the placebo group it was 37%. The RRR for the raloxifene 60 
mg treatment group versus the placebo group also was 42%. The hazard ratio estimates between the 
active treatment groups were similar. 
For subjects with no prevalent vertebral fractures, Kaplan-Meier estimates of cumulative incidence of 
new  vertebral  fracture  for  the  interval  from  0  to  36  months  for  the  bazedoxifene  20  and  40  mg 
treatment groups (1.98% and 2.14%, respectively) were similar to the rate estimate for the raloxifene 
60  mg  treatment  group  (1.84%),  and  all  active  treatment  groups  had  lower  rate  estimates  than  the 
placebo group (3.13%). 
For subjects with at least 1 prevalent vertebral fracture, the Kaplan-Meier rate estimates of cumulative 
incidence of new vertebral fracture from 0 to 36 months for the bazedoxifene 20 and 40 mg and the 
raloxifene 60 mg treatment groups were similar (2.63%, 2.80%, and 2.70%, respectively) and lower 
than that seen with the placebo group (4.80%). 
Secondary Endpoints 
Non-Vertebral fractures  
Regarding  the  incidence  of  non-vertebral  fractures  there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference 
between active treatment and placebo. However the fracture rate was numerically lower in the active 
treatment  groups  compared  to  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  of  non-vertebral  fractures  was  low  in 
this  study  compared  to  published  data.  Fractures  of  the  toes,  fingers,  elbow,  skull  and  face  were 
excluded  from  analysis  as  these  fractures  were  not  considered  osteoporosis  related.    In  addition, 
traumatic and pathologic fractures were also excluded.   
Page 31 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Non-Vertebral Fracture Rate, Principal Investigator Data, Months 0 to 36 
Treatment Group 
Number of New 
Fractures 
Number of 
Subjects 
Fracture Rate (%) 
Kaplan-Meier Rate 
Estimate (%) 
Lower 95% 
Limit 
Upper 95% 
Limit 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Raloxifene 60 mg 
Placebo  
89 
85 
89 
99 
1886 
1872 
1849 
1885 
4.72 
4.54 
4.81 
5.25 
Pathologic non-vertebral fractures are excluded. 
5.68 
5.61 
5.87 
6.26 
4.63 
4.55 
4.79 
5.16 
6.96 
6.90 
7.19 
7.59 
Figure 4: Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Non-Vertebral Fracture Rate, Principal Investigator Data, Months 0 to 36 
In a post-hoc analysis of a subgroup of women at high risk for non-vertebral fractures (femoral neck 
T-score < -3.0 or prevalent fracture excluding those with 1 mild fracture) there was a 50% reduction in 
non-vertebral  fractures  relative  to  placebo  and  a  44%  reduction  relative  to  raloxifene  with 
bazedoxifene 20 mg. The effect was observed at month 12 and was sustained up to month 36. In this 
subgroup of subjects, the incidence of non-vertebral fractures in the placebo group was 9% at 3 years.  
The  same  exploratory  analyses  conducted  on  adjudicated  data  were  consistent  with 
the 
investigator-assessed  data  analysis.  However,  the  data  was  not  considered  to  be  unequivocally 
supporting  the  notion  of  protection  with  regard  to  non-vertebral  fractures  by  the  CHMP,  as  the 
outcome  was  present  only  with  the  lowest  bazedoxifene  dose  and  was  based  on  a  non-prespecified 
post-hoc analysis. 
Table 5: Non-Vertebral Fracture Incidence in Women at High Risk for Fracture, Kaplan-Meier Estimates, Months 0 to 36 
Treatment Group 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Raloxifene 60 mg 
Placebo  
Number of New 
Fractures 
Number of 
Subjects 
Kaplan-Meier Rate 
Estimate (%) 
-------- 95% CI -------- 
UP 
LL 
17 
22 
30 
32 
443 
433 
448 
448 
4.89 
6.48 
8.36 
9.06 
3.05 
4.30 
5.90 
6.46 
7.77 
9.73 
11.78 
12.64 
CI = confidence interval; LL = lower limit; UP = upper limit. 
The high risk group was defined as those subjects with a femoral neck T-score of -3 or lower, or the presence of at least 1 moderate vertebral 
fracture or multiple vertebral fractures at baseline. 
Pathologic non-vertebral fractures are excluded, summary based on principal investigator’s data. 
Page 32 of 49 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 5: -Vertebral Fracture Incidence in Women at High Risk for Fracture, Kaplan-Meier Estimates, Months 0 to 36 
Bone Mineral Density 
The primary bone mineral density (BMD) analysis was percentage change from baseline in BMD at 
24 months.  Overall, at the lumbar spine as well as at the total hip, including femoral and trochanter a 
significant treatment effect was demonstrated for both bazedoxifene treatment groups at month 6 and 
maintained throughout month 36. 
Figure 6: Percentage Change from Baseline in BMD of the Lumbar Spine, Months 0 to 24 (ITT) 
□ = Bazedoxifene 20 mg; ◊ = Bazedoxifene 40 mg; + = Raloxifene 60 mg; • = Placebo 
Changes in lipid metabolism were similar between bazedoxifene and raloxifene. Results do not raise a 
concern.  
Incidence of new diagnosis of breast cancer was lower on bazedoxifene than on placebo or raloxifene. 
However absolute numbers are low and no conclusions can be drawn. 
Results on bone histomorphometry in a small subset of subjects do not raise a concern. 
Page 33 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Results of the analysis across studies are mainly driven by those from study 301-WW since this study 
enrolled  about  5 times  the  number  of  participants  than  study  300-GL.  Regarding  BMD  and 
biochemical markers of bone metabolism results were not consistent in the two pivotal phase 3 studies. 
In study 300-GL, changes from baseline in BMD and biochemical markers were very similar between 
bazedoxifene  and  raloxifene  treatment  groups.  In  contrast  in  study  301-WW,  the  increases  from 
baseline  in  BMD  of  the  lumbar  spine  for  the  bazedoxifene  treatment  groups  were  statistically 
significant lower than for the raloxifene treatment group at all time points. This is supported by results 
from  the responder  analysis.  Reduction  of  biochemical  markers  of  bone  metabolism  were  higher  on 
raloxifene  compared  with  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg.  In  both  phase  3  studies,  bazedoxifene 
treatment  resulted  in  a  favourable  lipid  profile,  although  the  clinical  relevance  of  these  changes 
remains to be determined. 
At  the  request  of  the  CHMP  the  fracture  risk  of  the  population  studied  was  investigated  to  be  in 
concordance  with  the  2006  osteoporosis  guideline. The  applicant  provided  absolute risk  of fractures 
based  on  the  extrapolation  of  rates  from  the  placebo  arm,  and  additionally  the  estimated  10-year 
fracture probability, based on the FRAX™ model, a recently published algorithm by Prof. Kanis from 
the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  Collaborating  Centre  for  Metabolic  Bone  Diseases  at  the 
University  of  Sheffield.  FRAX™  is  a  computer  based  algorithm  (http://www.shef.ac.uk/FRAX)  that 
provides models for the assessment of fracture probability. Probability of fracture is calculated from 
age, BMI computed from height and weight, and dichotomized risk variables. 
The  incidence  of  vertebral  fractures  was  4.1%  in  the  placebo  group  after  3  years.  If  this  rate  is 
annualized, the incidence of new vertebral fractures would be about 1.3%, meaning that after 10 years 
the incidence would be about 13%. This estimate does not take into account the increase in age, it is 
reasonable to assume that based on the placebo rate the 10-year vertebral fracture probability would be 
at least 15%. The incidence of non-vertebral fractures in the placebo group was 6.3% after 3 years and 
accordingly, translating into an annualized rate of 2.1% and a 10-year fracture probability of at least 
20%.  However  the  incidence  of  hip  fractures  was  low,  0.31%  in  the  placebo  group  after  3  years, 
translating into an annualized rate of 0.1% and a 10-year fracture probability of 1%, lower than that 
specified in the new guideline (5% to 7.5%).  
As these estimates do not adequately account for confounding factors like increasing age and death the 
FRAX™ algorithm that allows estimation of a 10-year fracture probability in men and women has also 
been applied. The 10-year fracture probability was estimated at 11%, overall in line with revision 2 of 
the  CHMP  guideline  on  osteoporosis.  The  following  table  shows  the  resulting  10-year  fracture 
probability with and without BMD. 
Table 6: Ten Year Fracture Probability (%) at Baseline Based on FRAXTM 
n 
Mean 
SD 
Range 
Without BMD 
With BMD 
7479 
11.1 
8.5 
6930 
10.5 
8.3 
0.7-64.9 
0.6-80.0 
In summary estimations of the absolute fracture risk both based on data from the placebo arm of this 
study as well as on calculations using the FRAXTM algorithm suggest that the study overall is in line 
with the requests of revision 2 of the CHMP guideline on osteoporosis. 
The  fracture  rate  in  this  study  was  lower  in  comparison  to  the  Multiple  Outcomes  of  Raloxifene 
Evaluation (MORE) study probably based on the different enrolment criteria leading to enrolment of 
women  with  less  severe  osteoporosis.  In  study  301-WW,  postmenopausal  women  were  eligible  for 
Page 34 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inclusion if they had osteoporosis defined as lumbar spine or femoral neck BMD between 2.5 and 4.0 
(inclusive) and no prevalent vertebral fracture, or at least 1 mild vertebral fracture and BMD not worse 
than 4.0. The MORE study enrolled postmenopausal women with osteoporosis defined as BMD below 
2.5, or low BMD with 1 or more moderate or severe vertebral fractures, or who had at least 2 moderate 
fractures  regardless  of  their  BMD.  The  original  protocol  for  study  301-WW  included  subjects  with 
severe forms of osteoporosis. However, it was considered unethical to enrol severely affected subjects 
at  a  time  when  a  large  number  of  drugs  were  available  for  treatment.  That resulted  in  enrolment  of 
subjects with a milder disease, consistent with the recommendations of IRBs and ethics committees. 
There was a significant increase in BMD in all active treatment groups. However, in contrast to results 
from  study  300-GL,  BMD  was  higher  in  the  raloxifene  treatment  group  compared  to  both 
bazedoxifene  20 mg  and  40 mg  groups.  This  difference  is  not  reflected  by  the  data  on  incidence  of 
vertebral or non-vertebral fractures. In line with the data on BMD raloxifene had a greater effect on 
biochemical markers of bone metabolism than bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for mild or moderate renally impaired patients. However, bazedoxifene 
has not been sufficiently evaluated in patients with severe renal impairment; caution in this population 
is therefore advised in sections 4.4 and 5.2 of the SPC. 
Hepatic impairment 
Safety  and  efficacy  of  bazedoxifene  have  not  been  evaluated  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment; 
therefore, use in this population is not recommended (see sections 4.4 and 5.2 of the SPC). 
Elderly patients 
No dose adjustment is necessary based on age. 
Paediatric patients 
Bazedoxifene  is  not  indicated  for  use  in  paediatric  patients  and  has  not  been  investigated  in  this 
population. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In conclusion the efficacy data available support the assumption that efficacy of bazedoxifene in the 
treatment  indication  has  sufficiently  been  established  for  vertebral  fractures,  while  no  effect  of 
bazedoxifene relative to placebo on the incidence of non-vertebral fractures has been established. The 
efficacy  of  bazedoxifene  appears  to  be  comparable  to  that  of  raloxifene.  These  effects  have  been 
investigated  on  the  background  of  a  calcium  supplementation  (up  to  1200 mg)  combined  with 
vitamin D (400 IU).  
The  design  of  the  bazedoxifene  phase  3  clinical  programme  for  prevention  and  treatment  of 
osteoporosis was consistent with the European osteoporosis guideline and scientific advices received 
at  the  time  it  was  designed  in  2001.  Posthoc  calculations  of  the  fracture  risk  using  the  FRAXTM 
algorithm  and  the  estimated  10-year  absolute  risk  of  fractures  in  study  301-WW  based  on  the 
extrapolation  of  rates  from  the  placebo  arm  indicate  consistency  with  the  current  revision  2  of  the 
osteoporosis guideline. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  safety  evaluation  presented  by  the  applicant  is  mainly  based  on  results  from  2  large  scale, 
outpatient, multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo- and raloxifene-controlled, phase 3 studies 
(300-GL,  2  years  treatment,  1,583  postmenopausal  women,  mean  age  =  58  years  and  301-WW,  3 
years treatment, 7,492 postmenopausal women, mean age = 66 years). In addition data from 3 phase 2 
studies (200-BR, 204-US/CA, and 205-CN), and 18 phase 1 studies have been evaluated. Data from 
9075 women were included in the safety population of the phase 3 studies, 321 bazedoxifene 10 mg, 
2208 bazedoxifene 20 mg, 2109 bazedoxifene 40 mg, 1850 raloxifene 60 mg, and 2195 placebo.  
Page 35 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Patient Exposure in Phase 3 Studies 
Study 
300-GL 
301-WWb 
No. of Subjects 
Treatment 
Treatment (Months) 
321 
322 
319 
311 
310 
1886 
1872 
1849 
1885 
Bazedoxifene 10 mg a 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg  
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Raloxifene 60 mg 
Placebo 
Bazedoxifene 20 mg 
Bazedoxifene 40 mg  
Raloxifene 60 mg 
Placebo 
24 
24 
24 
24 
24 
36 
36 
36 
36 
a.  This dose group was not included in the integrated data. 
b.  Final analysis of 3-year core study. 
Based on the duration (2 and 3 years) and size of the phase 3 studies there is an adequate number of 
women  exposed  under  long-term,  controlled  conditions.  By  including  raloxifene  as  an  active 
comparator into these studies, linking to the extensive safety information available with raloxifene, the 
safety assessment is facilitated. 
Safety results from the phase 3 studies were considered individually and pooled for the bazedoxifene 
20 mg,  bazedoxifene  40 mg,  raloxifene  60 mg,  and  placebo  treatment  groups  to  provide  an  overall 
assessment  of  the  safety  profile  of  bazedoxifene  in  postmenopausal  women.  The  strategy  of 
considering  data  sets  both  pooled  and  individually  is  considered  acceptable  since  pooling  might 
generate  additional  information  on  rare  AE.  Pooling  mainly  across  phase  3  data  is  endorsed  as  this 
offers more homogeneous data sets. Subgroups of subjects defined by age (64 years or younger, 65 to 
74 years, and 75 years or older) and ethnic origin (Asian, black, and Hispanic populations) were also 
examined as part of the integrated analyses. 
•  Adverse events  
Data  are  pooled  from  all  common  doses  analyzed 
in  studies  300-GL  and  301-WW:  
bazedoxifene 20 mg,  bazedoxifene 40 mg,  raloxifene 60 mg,  and  placebo.    The  bazedoxifene 10 mg 
treatment group from study 300-GL was not included the integrated analyses. 
Common Adverse Events 
Overall,  bazedoxifene  20  and  40 mg  doses  were  well  tolerated  in  postmenopausal  women  and  the 
adverse event profile of bazedoxifene was consistent with that of raloxifene reported in these studies 
as  well  as  in earlier clinical  trials.    Most of the adverse  events in  the  studies  were  considered to  be 
treatment emergent. 
Because of the previous clinical experience with SERMs, particular attention was paid to the analysis 
of the frequency and distribution of VTEs, selected cardiac AE, cerebrovascular AE,  vasodilatation, 
breast  disorders,  reproductive  system  disorders,  and  leg  cramps.  Changes  in  the  endometrium  and 
ovaries  were  monitored  in  both  phase  3  studies  by  TVU  and  endometrial  biopsies,  including 
measurement  of  double-wall  endometrial  thickness  and  ovarian  volumes  and  determination  of  the 
presence  of  or  changes  in  ovarian  cysts.  Study  301-WW  also  included  an  ECG  and  a  bone 
histomorphometry substudy. The focus on and the choice of the AE of special interest based on the 
clinical experience with other drugs from this class is acceptable. 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  in  the  overall  incidence  of  TEAE  (treatment  emergent  adverse 
event) between active treatment groups have been identified with the exception of vasodilatation (table 
8).  
Page 36 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Number (%) TEAE (≥ 5% only) in Phase 3 Integrated Data 
Treatment 
Body System a 
      Adverse Event 
Overall 
P-Value 
BZA 20 mg 
n = 2208 
BZA 40 mg 
n = 2191 
Raloxifene 60 mg 
n = 2160 
Placebo 
n = 2195 
2065 (94.1) 
Any Adverse Event 
1682 (76.6) 
Body as a Whole 
467 (21.3) 
      Abdominal Pain 
496 (22.6) 
      Accidental Injury 
205 (9.3) 
      Asthenia 
620 (28.2) 
      Back Pain 
141 (6.4) 
      Chest Pain 
538 (24.5) 
      Flu Syndrome 
487 (22.2) 
      Headache 
501 (22.8) 
      Infection 
172 (7.8) 
      Neck Pain 
626 (28.5) 
      Pain 
772 (35.2) 
Cardiovascular System 
377 (17.2) 
      Hypertension 
156 (7.1) 
      Vasodilatation 
1080 (49.2) 
Digestive System 
325 (14.8) 
      Constipation 
195 (8.9) 
      Diarrhoea 
206 (9.4) 
      Dyspepsia 
170 (7.7) 
      Nausea 
126 (5.7) 
      Vomiting 
104 (4.7) 
Endocrine System 
183 (8.3) 
Hemic and Lymphatic System 
611 (27.8) 
Metabolic and Nutritional 
143 (6.5) 
      Hypercholesteremia 
166 (7.6) 
      Peripheral Edema 
983 (44.8) 
Musculoskeletal System 
611 (27.8) 
      Arthralgia 
146 (6.7) 
      Arthrosis 
182 (8.3) 
      Leg Cramps 
111 (5.1) 
      Myalgia 
811 (36.9) 
Nervous System 
121 (5.5) 
      Anxiety 
105 (4.8) 
      Depression 
198 (9.0) 
      Dizziness 
193 (8.8) 
      Insomnia 
142 (6.5) 
      Vertigo 
816 (37.2) 
Respiratory System 
162 (7.4) 
      Bronchitis 
209 (9.5) 
      Cough Increased 
210 (9.6) 
      Pharyngitis 
107 (4.9) 
      Sinusitis 
141 (6.4) 
      Upper Respiratory Infection 
555 (25.3) 
Skin and Appendages 
123 (5.6) 
      Pruritus 
436 (19.9) 
Special Senses 
853 (38.9) 
Urogenital System 
126 (5.7) 
      Breast Disorder 
121 (5.5) 
      Cervix Disorder 
168 (7.7) 
      Urinary Tract Infection 
Body system totals are not necessarily the sum of the individual adverse events because a subject may report 2 or more different adverse 
events in the same body system.  
Overall p-value:  p-value for chi-square. Statistical significance at the .05, .01, .001 levels is denoted by *, **, *** respectively.  
2029 (93.9) 
1646 (76.2) 
460 (21.3) 
413 (19.1) 
210 (9.7) 
609 (28.2) 
157 (7.3) 
531 (24.6) 
447 (20.7) 
479 (22.2) 
154 (7.1) 
619 (28.7) 
843 (39.0) 
349 (16.2) 
268 (12.4) 
1062 (49.2) 
337 (15.6) 
217 (10.0) 
189 (8.8) 
164 (7.6) 
116 (5.4) 
97 (4.5) 
178 (8.2) 
523 (24.2) 
59 (2.7) 
183 (8.5) 
1013 (46.9) 
616 (28.5) 
165 (7.6) 
235 (10.9) 
107 (5.0) 
788 (36.5) 
96 (4.4) 
131 (6.1) 
172 (8.0) 
171 (7.9) 
140 (6.5) 
792 (36.7) 
162 (7.5) 
181 (8.4) 
180 (8.3) 
123 (5.7) 
143 (6.6) 
558 (25.8) 
124 (5.7) 
398 (18.4) 
848 (39.3) 
96 (4.4) 
105 (4.9) 
189 (8.8) 
2086 (94.5) 
1669 (75.6) 
415 (18.8) 
473 (21.4) 
204 (9.2) 
613 (27.8) 
158 (7.2) 
495 (22.4) 
486 (22.0) 
509 (23.1) 
149 (6.7) 
585 (26.5) 
893 (40.4) 
376 (17.0) 
296 (13.4) 
1094 (49.5) 
365 (16.5) 
190 (8.6) 
215 (9.7) 
182 (8.2) 
115 (5.2) 
118 (5.3) 
184 (8.3) 
568 (25.7) 
102 (4.6) 
207 (9.4) 
1034 (46.8) 
629 (28.5) 
149 (6.7) 
235 (10.6) 
101 (4.6) 
831 (37.6) 
92 (4.2) 
117 (5.3) 
209 (9.5) 
192 (8.7) 
129 (5.8) 
835 (37.8) 
185 (8.4) 
221 (10.0) 
173 (7.8) 
135 (6.1) 
156 (7.1) 
546 (24.7) 
118 (5.3) 
410 (18.6) 
842 (38.1) 
105 (4.8) 
97 (4.4) 
186 (8.4) 
2047 (93.4) 
1649 (75.3) 
434 (19.8) 
422 (19.3) 
189 (8.6) 
589 (26.9) 
161 (7.3) 
511 (23.3) 
480 (21.9) 
475 (21.7) 
142 (6.5) 
592 (27.0) 
893 (40.8) 
341 (15.6) 
307 (14.0) 
1075 (49.1) 
372 (17.0) 
213 (9.7) 
181 (8.3) 
192 (8.8) 
125 (5.7) 
118 (5.4) 
192 (8.8) 
554 (25.3) 
87 (4.0) 
181 (8.3) 
976 (44.5) 
596 (27.2) 
147 (6.7) 
236 (10.8) 
94 (4.3) 
785 (35.8) 
92 (4.2) 
137 (6.3) 
172 (7.9) 
175 (8.0) 
117 (5.3) 
799 (36.5) 
183 (8.4) 
200 (9.1) 
174 (7.9) 
113 (5.2) 
142 (6.5) 
505 (23.0) 
112 (5.1) 
405 (18.5) 
798 (36.4) 
102 (4.7) 
107 (4.9) 
172 (7.9) 
0.536  
0.718  
0.110  
0.009**  
0.657  
0.729  
0.613  
0.272  
0.621  
0.688  
0.323  
0.280  
<0.001*** 
0.431  
<0.001*** 
0.990  
0.203  
0.308  
0.326  
0.480  
0.837  
0.434  
0.926  
0.048*  
<0.001*** 
0.188  
0.232  
0.737  
0.527  
0.011* 
0.610  
0.649  
0.109  
0.122  
0.152  
0.612  
0.321  
0.795  
0.458  
0.297  
0.145  
0.272  
0.826  
0.164  
0.804  
0.566  
0.224  
0.198  
0.394  
0.525  
In the single-dose safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic study 123-CI in 60 Chinese subjects, the 
most commonly reported AE were changes or abnormalities in ECGs. These ECG abnormalities were 
reported  in  all  treatment  groups,  including  the  placebo  group,  and  occurred  with  no  apparent  dose 
relationship. The QTc study and the ECG substudy of phase 3 study 301-WW did not reveal any effect 
of bazedoxifene on QTc or ECG abnormalities. In addition the pattern of ECG abnormalities in study 
123-CI does not suggest a causal relationship. 
Regarding the AE of special interest, although overall number of VTE events is low (see table 9), the 
incidence  of  VTE  appears  to  be  higher  in  the  bazedoxifene  treatment  groups  than  in  the  raloxifene 
Page 37 of 49 
 
 
 
  
 
treatment group. This issue will be addressed in the proposed post-marketing study which is a crucial 
part of the RMP 
Table 9: Number (%) of Subjects Reporting VTE, Phase 3 Integrated Data 
Treatment 
Body Systema 
    AE 
Any AE 
    Deep thrombophlebitis 
    Deep vein thrombosisb 
    Pulmonary embolusd 
    Retinal vein thrombosise 
    Thrombosis 
Overall 
p-Value 
BZA 20 mg 
n = 2208 
BZA 40 mg 
n = 2191 
Raloxifene 60 mg 
n = 2160 
Placebo 
n = 2195 
Total 
n = 8754 
0.590 
0.115 
0.049* 
0.984 
0.672 
0.113 
16 (0.7) 
15 (0.7) 
11 (0.5) 
10 (0.5) 
52 (0.6) 
2 (0.1) 
7c (0.3) 
5 (0.2) 
2 (0.1) 
0 
0 
11 (0.5) 
4 (0.2) 
1 (0.0) 
0 
0 
8 (0.4) 
4 (0.2) 
1 (0.0) 
0 
0 
1 (0.0) 
4 (0.2) 
3 (0.1) 
2f (0.1) 
2 (0.0) 
27 (0.3) 
17 (0.2) 
7 (0.1) 
2 (0.0) 
a.  Body system totals are not necessarily the sum of the individual adverse events because a subject may report 2 or more different adverse 
events in the same body system.  
b.  Includes 9 posttherapy events (1 bazedoxifene 20 mg, 3 bazedoxifene 40 mg, 4 raloxifene 60 mg, and 1 placebo). 
c.  Subject 301-034-002313 (bazedoxifene 20 mg) had an event that was coded as superficial thrombophlebitis and was not included in this 
table.  The subject had experienced pain in her right thigh 8 days after her elective knee replacement surgery.  Diagnostic procedures 
revealed a clot at mid-superficial femoral vein.  The subject was treated with antithrombotic therapy (heparin, followed by warfarin).  
Despite a site data clarification request, the principal investigator declined to report this event as a DVT. 
d.  Includes 1 subject (bazedoxifene 20 mg) with post-procedural pulmonary embolism and 9 posttherapy events (3 bazedoxifene 20 mg, 2 
bazedoxifene 40 mg, 2 raloxifene 60 mg, and 2 placebo). 
e.  Includes 3 events reported as retinal vein occlusion with the MedDRA coding system (1 bazedoxifene 20 mg, 1 raloxifene 60 mg, and 1 
placebo). 
f.  In bazedoxifene study 300-GL, 2 adverse events were coded as “thrombosis” (placebo group):  subject 300-102-003702 was reported 
with a left lower calf thrombosis and considered a DVT, and subject 300-006-007384 was reported with a blood clot in the left knee, 
secondary to varicose vein and considered a superficial vein thrombosis. 
Overall p-value: p-value for chi-square. Statistical significance at the .05 level is denoted by *. 
Safety  results  on  cardiovascular  system  did  not  raise  a  concern.  For  the  cerebrovascular  events  the 
overall  incidence  of  ischemic  and  hemorrhagic  cerebrovascular  AE  did  not  show  a  statistically 
significant  difference  between  treatment  groups,  but  the  AE  cerebral  ischemia  and  cerebrovascular 
accident,  while  not  different  from  the  placebo  group,  were  reported  numerically  more  often  in  the 
bazedoxifene  than  in  the  raloxifene  groups.  Potential  cerebrovascular  event  cases  have  been 
adjudicated/readjudicated.  The  applicant  has  provided  the  results  of  this  process  (Cerebrovascular 
Event  Readjudication  Report).  The  results  are  overall  consistent  with  the  non-adjudicated 
cerebrovascular  safety  analysis  as  reported  by  study  investigators  and  in  agreement  with  the  safety 
assessment  based  on  the  initial  adjudication  of  cerebrovascular  events. Therefore  the  results  did  not 
alter the benefit-risk assessment based on the non-adjudicated data.  
Table 10: Number (%)Reporting Cerebrovascular Events, Phase 3 Integrated Data 
Body System a 
    AE 
Overall 
p-Value 
BZA 20 mg
n = 2208 
BZA 40 mg
n = 2191 
Treatment 
Raloxifene 60 mg 
n = 2160 
Placebo 
n = 2195 
Total 
n = 8754 
All Cerebrovascular Events 
    Cerebral hemorrhage 
    Cerebral infarct 
    Cerebral ischemia 
    Cerebrovascular accident 
    Cerebrovascular disorder 
    Intracranial hemorrhage 
    Retinal artery occlusion 
    Subarachnoid hemorrhage 
    Vertebrobasilar insufficiency 
a.  Body system totals are not necessarily the sum of the individual adverse events because a subject may report 2 or more different 
30 (1.4) 
1 (0.0) 
5 (0.2) 
10 (0.5) 
13 (0.6) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.0) 
24 (1.1) 
1 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
10 (0.5) 
10 (0.5) 
0 
0 
1 (0.0) 
0 
3 (0.1) 
30 (1.4) 
2 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
9 (0.4) 
11 (0.5) 
1 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
3 (0.1) 
21 (1.0) 
0 
2 (0.1) 
8 (0.4) 
7 (0.3) 
4 (0.2) 
1 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
0 
1 (0.0) 
0.526  
0.577  
0.307  
0.968  
0.624  
0.032*  
0.568  
0.801  
0.393  
0.582  
105 (1.2) 
4 (0.0) 
10 (0.1) 
37 (0.4) 
41 (0.5) 
5 (0.1) 
2 (0.0) 
3 (0.0) 
1 (0.0) 
8 (0.1) 
adverse events in the same body system.  
Overall p-value:  p-value for chi-square.  
Statistical significance at the .05, .01, .001 levels is denoted by *, **, *** respectively.  
The incidence of the AE vasodilatation is elevated in all treatment groups (bazedoxifene and 
raloxifene) and numerically slightly higher in the bazedoxifene groups compared to raloxifene.  
Page 38 of 49 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: Number (%) Reporting Vasodilatation in the Phase 3 Integrated Data 
AE 
Vasodilatation 
Overall 
p-Valuea 
Bazedoxifene 
20 mg 
40 mg 
Raloxifene 
60 mg 
Placebo 
<0.001 
305 (13.8) 
320 (14.6) 
280 (13.0) 
162 (7.4) 
a.  Chi-square for among-group comparisons. 
b.  Vasodilatation events included hot flushes/flashes, night sweats, and facial flushing. 
Regarding breast disorders bazedoxifene shows a slightly favourable safety profile compared to both 
raloxifene  and  placebo.  In  study  301-WW  the  incidence  of  breast-related  AE  in  the  bazedoxifene 
group was similar to placebo. Among 1,886 subjects treated with bazedoxifene (20 mg), there were 5 
cases  of  breast  cancer  per  4,591  person-years  of  follow-up  (1.09  per  1,000).  Among  1,849  subjects 
treated with raloxifene (60 mg), there were 7 cases of breast cancer per 4,526 person-years of follow-
up (1.55 per 1,000). Among 1,885 subjects treated with placebo, there were 8 cases of breast cancer 
per 4,604 person-years of follow-up (1.74 per 1,000). In study 300-GL the incidence of breast-related 
AE  (breast  tenderness,  pain,  breast  cancer,  benign  breast  neoplasm)  in  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg  and 
raloxifene 60 mg groups were similar to placebo. 
Table 12: Number (%) Reporting Breast Disorders, Phase 3 Integrated Data 
Body Systema 
      Adverse Event 
Overall
p-Value 
BZA 20 mg
n = 2208 
BZA 40 mg
n = 2191 
Raloxifene 60 mg 
n = 2160 
Placebo 
n = 2195 
Total 
n = 8754 
Treatment 
All Breast-Related Adverse Event 
      Breast carcinoma 
      Breast cyst 
      Breast disorder 
      Breast neoplasm 
      Breast pain 
      Fibrocystic breast 
a.  Body system totals are not necessarily the sum of the individual adverse events because a subject may report 2 or more different 
226 (10.3) 
10 (0.5) 
15 (0.7) 
136 (6.2) 
28 (1.3) 
54 (2.5) 
10 (0.5) 
207 (9.6) 
8 (0.4) 
17 (0.8) 
110 (5.1) 
16 (0.7) 
63 (2.9) 
17 (0.8) 
189 (8.6) 
4 (0.2) 
9 (0.4) 
113 (5.2) 
19 (0.9) 
54 (2.5) 
4 (0.2) 
194 (8.8) 
8b (0.4) 
8 (0.4) 
113 (5.1) 
16 (0.7) 
64 (2.9) 
6 (0.3) 
0.200  
0.469  
0.170  
0.293  
0.182  
0.646  
0.011*  
816 (9.3) 
30 (0.3) 
49 (0.6) 
472 (5.4) 
79 (0.9) 
235 (2.7) 
37 (0.4) 
adverse events in the same body system.  
b.  One (1) subject had a breast finding at study entry that was later diagnosed as breast cancer after enrolment. 
Overall p-value:  p-value for chi-square. Statistical significance at the .05, .01, .001 levels is denoted by *, **, *** respectively.  
There  are  no  relevant  differences  between  treatment  groups  regarding  reproductive  disorder  AE. 
Transvaginal ultrasonography (TVU) of the uterus and ovaries did not reveal any safety concerns. In 
study 301-WW endometria were evaluated in a subset of women by TVU. After 24 months, there were 
minimal  changes  in  endometrial  thickness  in  placebo  (-0.08  mm,  n = 131),  bazedoxifene  20 mg 
(-0.07 mm,  n = 129),  and  raloxifene  60 mg  (0.16 mm,  n = 110)  treated  groups.  The  difference  in 
changes from baseline in endometrial thickness among bazedoxifene, raloxifene and placebo groups 
was  not  significant.  At  36  month,  there  were  no  cases  of  endometrial  cancer  and  1  case  (0.1%)  of 
endometrial  hyperplasia  in  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg-treated  subjects.  There  was  1  case  (0.1%)  of 
endometrial  cancer,  1 case  of  sarcoma  (0.1%)  and  1  case  (0.1%)  of  endometrial  hyperplasia  in  the 
raloxifene 60 mg-treated subjects. There were 3 cases (0.2%) of endometrial cancer and 1 case (0.1%) 
of  endometrial  hyperplasia  in  the  placebo  group.  Forty-eight  (48) subjects  were  diagnosed  with 
endometrial  polyps  through  month 36,  10 subjects  in  the  bazedoxifene  20 mg  treatment  group, 
17 subjects  in  the  raloxifene  60 mg  treatment  group,  and  11 subjects  in  the  placebo  group.  In  study 
300-GL endometrial thickness was evaluated for all subjects at baseline and every 6 months (for 24 
months)  by  TVU.  After  24  months,  there  were  minimal  changes  from  baseline  in  endometrial 
thickness  in  placebo  (-0.24  mm,  n = 154),  bazedoxifene  20 mg  (-0.06 mm,  n = 158)  and  raloxifene 
60 mg (0.01 mm, n = 154) treated groups. The difference in changes from baseline among treatment 
groups was not significant. The proportion of subjects with endometrial polyps was similar between 
treatment  groups.  No  cases  of  hyperplasia  or  endometrial  malignancy  were  identified  in  any 
bazedoxifene- or raloxifene-treated subjects.  
The incidence of leg cramps was higher on active treatment compared to placebo, but there were no 
differences between different active treatment groups. 
In  study  301-WW  121  bone  biopsies  were  obtained  (bazedoxifene  20 mg  =  28;  bazedoxifene 
40 mg = 29, raloxifene 60 mg = 32, placebo = 32) after approximately 24 or 36 months of treatment. 
Histological  assessment  of  bone  biopsies  from  all  treatment  groups  revealed  formation  of  normal 
lamellar bone in all treated subjects. There was no evidence of osteomalacia, peritrabecular or marrow 
Page 39 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
fibrosis, cellular toxicity or woven bone in any of the bone biopsy specimens in any of the treatment 
groups. Histomorphometric assessment revealed normal mineralization as evidenced by the presence 
of normal osteoid thickness, normal mineralization lag time, and mineral apposition rate.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Sixty-nine (69) deaths occurred during the phase 3 studies and the post-treatment follow-up period, as 
well  as  the  deaths  that  resulted  from  a  process  that  began  during  the  study,  were  reported  to  the 
sponsor.  Deaths  were  reported  as  follows:    2  of  321  (0.62%)  subjects  in  the  bazedoxifene 10 mg 
treatment group, 19 of 2208 subjects (0.86%) in the bazedoxifene 20 mg treatment group, 17 of 2191 
(0.78%)  subjects  in  the  bazedoxifene 40 mg  treatment  group,  19 of  2160  (0.88%)  subjects  in  the 
raloxifene 60 mg treatment group, and 12 of 2195 (0.55%) subjects in the placebo group. There were 
no obvious differences in the incidence and causes of death between the treatment groups. 
In  the  integrated  data  of  studies  300-GL  and  301-WW,  serious  adverse  events  were  evaluated  for 
clinically important differences among treatment groups.  Most of the serious adverse events, which 
showed differences among groups, were reported by a very limited number of subjects, increasing the 
chance of imbalance in distribution.  There was, however, an increased incidence of serious adverse 
events  for  DVT  in  the  active  treatment  groups.  The  incidence  of  DVT  was  similar  between  the 
raloxifene 60 mg and bazedoxifene treatment groups. These events are described in more detail later.  
The  most  common  serious  adverse  events  reported  by  ≥ 10  subjects  in  any  treatment  group  were 
accidental  injury,  angina  pectoris,  arthralgia,  arthrosis,  breast  carcinoma,  cerebrovascular  accident, 
chest  pain,  cholecystitis,  cholelithiasis,  coronary  artery  disorder,  DVT,  gastrointestinal  carcinoma, 
hypertension, overdose, pneumonia, and skin carcinoma.  No significant differences in the incidence 
of serious adverse events among treatment groups were observed for cerebrovascular adverse events 
including  ischemic  and  hemorrhagic  cerebrovascular  accidents;  endometrial  events,  including 
endometrial carcinoma, endometrial hyperplasia, and endometrial neoplasia; and breast carcinoma. 
Venous  thromboembolism  (deep  vein  thrombosis,  pulmonary  embolism  and  retinal  vein  thrombosis.  
In the osteoporosis prevention study, 300-GL, the incidence of VTEs was similar among all treatment 
groups  in  postmenopausal  women  with  a  mean  age  58 years.    In  the  osteoporosis  treatment  study, 
301-WW, an increased incidence of VTEs was observed in all active treatment groups compared with 
placebo  in  postmenopausal  women  with  a  mean  age  66 years.  In  the  osteoporosis  treatment  trial  in 
7,492 valuable subjects (mean age=66 years), the bazedoxifene-treated women had an increased risk 
of  venous  thromboembolism  (deep  vein  thrombosis,  pulmonary  embolism  and  retinal  vein 
thrombosis).  The  rate  per  1,000 women-years  through  the  3-year  study  period  was  3.23  in  the 
bazedoxifene  20 mg  group  and  1.72  in  placebo.  The  relative  risk  was  1.9  through  the  3-year  study 
period. The relative risk decreased over the three years studied (year 1=3.0, year 2=2.5, year 3=0.3).  
With  regard  to  DVT  there  was  a  statistical  significant  RR  of  4.93  (95%  CI:  1.09,  22.39)  for 
bazedoxifene 20 mg compared to placebo. Using adjudicated data, the RR of DVT was 7.0 (95% CI 
0.86, 56.81) in the bazedoxifene 20 mg group compared to the placebo group. 
Hence, DVT (and VTE) continues to be a significant safety concern with bazedoxifene, to be further 
addressed in a study, to which the applicant committed as a follow-up measure  
Although  not  statistically  significant,  the  RR  for  thromboembolic  events  with  bazedoxifene  20mg 
compared to raloxifene was  
- 1.51 (0.71 – 3.22) for any event 
- 1.22 (0.48 – 3.09) for DVT 
- 1.22 (0.33 – 4.55) for PE 
- 1.96 (0.18 – 21.56) for RVT.  
An explanation as suggested by the applicant was a lower than expected rate of VTE in the raloxifene 
group in study 301-WW This explanation was considered not to be fully convincing, and therefore this 
issue  (comparison  of  VTE  risk  associated  with  raloxifene  and  bazedoxifene)  will  be  addressed  in  a 
proposed EU-post-marketing study as a crucial part of the RMP. 
Currently, the possibility that the absolute risk of VTE in subjects ≥75 years might be greater than in 
younger  women  cannot  be  excluded.  As  a  consequence,  it  will  be  followed  up  in  a  post-marketing 
study and is included in the risk management plan. Also, it cannot be excluded that the risk associated 
Page 40 of 49 
 
 
 
with bazedoxifene might be higher in obese women. As a consequence, the data obtained in a post-
marketing study will also be stratified by BMI.  
Cerebrovascular Events 
Potential  cerebrovascular  event  cases  have  been  adjudicated/readjudicated.  The  Adjudication  Board 
determined  that  overall  52  subjects  experienced  a  stroke  (bazedoxifene  20  mg:  12  subjects, 
bazedoxifene  40  mg:  14  subjects,  raloxifene  60  mg:  12  subjects,  and  placebo:  14  subjects)  and  19 
subjects  experienced  a  TIA  (bazedoxifene  20  mg:  5  subjects,  bazedoxifene  40  mg:  7  subjects, 
raloxifene 60 mg: 3 subjects, and placebo: 4 subjects). Eleven (11) subjects with stroke and 1 subject 
with TIA reported the events from 4 to 166 days after their last dose of test article. The incidence rate 
in  women-years  was  determined  from  the  number  of  events  adjudicated  as  ischaemic  stroke, 
hemorrhagic stroke, stroke unspecified, or TIA and the total exposure for subjects in each treatment 
group.  Follow-up  time  was  uniformly  distributed  among  treatment  groups  and  ranged  from  4492  to 
4652 women-years for the cerebrovascular events. The frequency and rate of cerebrovascular events 
per 1000 women-years cumulative (0 to 3 years) is presented in the following table.  
Table 13: Frequency and Rate Per 1000 Women-Years of Cerebrovascular Events, Based on Adjudicated Data 
The rate estimates for the first, second, and third years of the study were similar to that for the first 3 
years  combined  although  the  95%  CI  for  the  estimates  were  greater.  Overall,  the  rates  for  the 
cerebrovascular events were comparable among the 4 treatment groups with overlapping CIs. 
The  results  of  the  readjudication  analysis  are  overall  consistent  with  the  non  adjudicated 
cerebrovascular safety analysis as reported by study investigators. These results are also in agreement 
with the safety assessment based on the initial adjudication of cerebrovascular events.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Regarding laboratory adverse events no differences between active treatment groups for hepatology, 
bone  metabolism  related  measurements  or  haematology  have  been  identified.  Increases  in  ALT  or 
AST were lower on active treatment compared to placebo. 
•  Safety in special populations 
As  can  generally  be  expected,  older  patients  showed  more  AEs,  but  differences  were  small  and  no 
specific dose recommendation is required. No definite conclusion on ethnic origin is possible due to 
low number of participants available within each treatment group. The use of bazedoxifene in subjects 
with  significant  renal  impairment  cannot  be  endorsed  as  only  limited  data  regarding  the 
pharmacokinetics in this population are available at present. This is reflected in the SPC and the PIL. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
For the safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions no safety concerns are expected, 
since no DDI has been identified and these findings are in line with data on raloxifene. 
Page 41 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation due to any AE and to the AE vasodilatation was numerically lower in the raloxifene 
arm compared to both bazedoxifene arms, The safety analysis of discontinuations due to AE seems to 
confirm a difference in discontinuations due to the AE vasodilatation between bazedoxifene and 
raloxifene treatment groups  
Table 14: Number (%) Reporting AE Resulting in Withdrawal that Showed a Significant Difference Among Groups, 
Phase 3 Integrated Data 
Body System a 
      Adverse Event 
Overall 
p-Value 
BZA 20 mg 
n = 2208 
BZA 40 mg 
n = 2191 
Raloxifene 60 mg 
n = 2160 
Placebo 
n = 2195 
Treatment 
Any Adverse Event 
      Asthenia 
      Infection 
      Heart arrest 
      Vasodilatation 
      Osteoporosis 
a.  Body system totals are not necessarily the sum of the individual adverse events because a subject may report 2 or more different 
316 (14.6) 
10 (0.5) 
6 (0.3) 
0 
19 (0.9) 
0 
337 (15.4) 
2 (0.1) 
0 
0 
28 (1.3) 
0 
334 (15.1) 
5 (0.2) 
1 (0.0) 
0 
27 (1.2) 
0 
0.391  
0.026*  
0.010*  
0.030*  
0.003**  
0.008**  
300 (13.7) 
2 (0.1) 
1 (0.0) 
3 (0.1) 
7 (0.3) 
4 (0.2) 
adverse events in the same body system.  
Overall p-value:  p-value for chi-square. Statistical significance at the .05, .01, .001 levels is denoted by *, **, *** respectively.  
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Safety issue 
VTE – Important 
identified risk 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Included as an endpoint in the EU 
and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
The observational cohort studies 
will use computerized 
administrative databases to 
compare the incidence of VTE in 
bazedoxifene users with 
raloxifene users, stratifying by 
age and by BMI where possible. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
− 
Risk minimisation actions will 
consist of communication in the 
SPC and PIL.   
SPC Section 4.3: contraindications 
Active or past history of venous 
thromboembolic events, including deep 
vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, 
and retinal vein thrombosis. 
SPC Section 4.4: Special warnings and 
precautions for use  
Use of CONBRIZA is not recommended 
in women at an increased risk for venous 
thromboembolic events (see section 4.8). 
The risk factors associated with venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) cases in clinical 
trials included: advanced age, obesity, 
immobilisation, surgery, major trauma 
and malignancy. It should be discontinued 
prior to and during prolonged 
immobilisation (e.g., post-surgical 
Page 42 of 49 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recovery, prolonged bed rest), and therapy 
should be resumed only after the patient is 
fully ambulatory. In addition, women 
taking CONBRIZA should be advised to 
move about periodically during prolonged 
travel. 
PIL section 2: Take special care with 
Conbriza 
− 
as it may increase your risk of 
getting blood clots. While very 
infrequent, these clots can cause 
serious medical problems, disability 
or death. Speak with your doctor to 
see if you are at increased risk for 
blood clots. 
− 
   if you are immobile (unable to 
move) for some time, such as being 
wheel-chair bound, sitting for a 
prolonged period of time or having 
to stay in bed while recovering 
from an operation or illness. If you 
are traveling on long trips, you 
should walk around or exercise 
your legs and feet at regular 
intervals. This is because sitting for 
a long time in the same position 
may prevent good  
None, since no increased risk of ischemic 
stroke has been identified. 
None, since no increased risk of atrial 
fibrillation has been identified. 
SPC Section 5.3 Pre-Clinical Safety Data.
In an 18-month bone efficacy study in 
aged ovariectomized cynomolgus 
monkeys, bazedoxifene, administered 
orally to monkeys at dosages of 0, 0.2, 
0.5, 1, 5, or 25 mg/kg/day, resulted in 
exposures, based on surface area (mg/m2) 
of approximately 0.2 to 24 times the 
clinical dose of 20 mg..  Renal cell 
carcinomas were observed in this study.  
These tumours are considered as 
spontaneous renal cell carcinomas that are 
known to occur in nonhuman primates 
Ischemic stroke – 
Important potential 
risk 
Atrial fibrillation – 
Important potential 
risk 
Renal carcinoma and 
adenoma - 
Potential risk from 
non-clinical studies 
Included as an endpoint in the EU 
and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Included as an endpoint in the EU 
and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Renal cell carcinoma as part of 
PASS  
pharmacoepidemiology studies  
Renal cell carcinoma and 
adenoma events will continue to 
be analyzed in the 4 year 
extension of study 301-WW. 
Spontaneous reports of related 
events will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Page 43 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New presentation or 
aggravation of pre-
existing renal failure 
or insufficiency - 
Potential risk from 
non-clinical studies 
Cholecystitis – 
Potential risks 
Increased 
triglyceride levels –  
Potential risks 
Ischemic/thrombotic 
cardiac disorders – 
limited information 
Elderly – limited 
information 
and are unlikely to be relevant to humans.
Surveillance for renal 
insufficiency and failure as part of 
PASS pharmacoepidemiology 
studies  
SPC Section 4.4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use.  Bazedoxifene has not 
been sufficiently evaluated in patients 
with severe renal impairment; caution 
should be used in this population. 
New presentation or aggravation 
of pre-existing renal failure or 
insufficiency continue to be 
analyzed in the 4 year extension 
of study 301-WW. 
Spontaneous reports of related 
events will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Included as an endpoint in the EU 
and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Included as an endpoint in the 4-
year extension of study 301-WW.  
Spontaneous reports will be 
collected, analyzed and reported 
in PSURs. 
Included as an endpoint in the EU 
and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports will be collected, analyzed 
and reported in PSURs. 
Age to be used as a stratification 
factor in the EU and US PASS 
pharmacoepidemiology studies 
and in the 4-year extension of 
study 301-WW.  Spontaneous 
reports in the elderly will be 
collected, analyzed and reported 
in PSURs. 
None, since no increased risk of 
cholecystitis has been identified.   
No risk minimisation activities proposed, 
since no increased risk has been 
identified. 
None, since no increased risk of 
ischemic/thrombotic cardiac disorders has 
been identified.   
No risk minimisation activities proposed 
for this limited information item.   
AE = adverse event; DVT = deep vein thrombosis; EU = European Union; PE = pulmonary embolism; 
PIL = patient information leaflet; RR = relative risk; RVT = retinal vein thrombosis; SPC = Summary 
of Product Characteristics; VTE = venous thromboembolism. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Page 44 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There was 
a quality issues that will be resolved as Follow-up Measures within an agreed timeframe. This issue is 
not expected to have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
All relevant properties of bazedoxifene were investigated in standard PD, PK and toxicology studies. 
In  rats,  treatment  with  bazedoxifene  for  approximately  one  year  partially  prevented  the  effects  of 
ovariectomy  on  numerous  skeletal  parameters  (bone  mineral  content,  bone  mineral  density,  and 
architecture).  In  monkeys,  treatment  with  bazedoxifene  for  18  months  resulted  in  the  partial 
preservation  of  cortical  and  cancellous  bone  mass  as  determined  by  BMD  measurements.  In  both 
species, the administration of bazedoxifene had no deleterious effects on bone quality and resulted in 
uterine and mammary gland atrophy without other histological differentiation from untreated animals. 
Repeated-dose  studies  in  normally  cycling  rodents  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  revealed  a  marked 
stimulation of ovarian follicle growth without ovulation, leading to partly haemorrhagic-ovarian cysts 
and markedly elevated estradiol levels. This is considered not clinically relevant in post-menopausal 
women. 
Carcinogenicity  studies  showed  a  marked  decrease  in  pituitary  and  mammary  tumours;  a  causative 
link can be assumed because the pituitary tumours are regarded as oestrogen-dependent prolactinomas 
whereby the secreted prolactin caused the mammary tumours. 
Bazedoxifene  caused  also  corticomedullar  nephrocalcinosis  and  enhanced  spontaneous  chronic 
progressive  nephropathy  (CPN)  in  male  rats.  Urine  parameters  were  pathologically  changed.  In 
long-term studies renal tumours (adenomas and carcinomas) were observed at all doses tested, most 
likely as a consequence of this chronic renal damage. 
It  is  plausible  to  assume  that  bazedoxifene,  via  an  oestrogen-like  action  also  caused  this  disease  in 
males.  The  preclinical  kidney  findings  are  mentioned  in  the  SPC  to  make  the  prescriber  aware  of  a 
possible  link  between  bazedoxifene  and  kidney  disease  and  take  a  closer look  if  a  patient  receiving 
bazedoxifene develops kidney disease.  
Bazedoxifene showed adverse effects on fertility and early embryonic development at low doses (0.03 
mg/kg/day)  in  female  rats.  Due  to  lack  of  prenatal  and  postnatal  developmental  studies,  including 
maternal  function,  toxicity  observed  in  embryo-foetus  and  lack  of  knowledge  concerning  excretion 
into  milk,  bazedoxifene  is not  intended  for  use  in  breast-feeding  women.  Moreover  bazedoxifene  is 
only for use in post-menopausal women. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy  was  studied  in  2  large  phase  3  trials.  Study  301-WW  examined  the  effect  of  bazedoxifene 
20 mg and 40 mg, as well as raloxifene 60 mg and placebo on new osteoporotic fractures over a period 
of 3 years. This study is considered the main (pivotal) trial. Based on dose-finding studies, 2 dosages, 
20 mg and 40  mg per day of bazedoxifene were studied. The study evaluated 7492 postmenopausal 
women  with  a  diagnosis  of  osteoporosis,  based  on  the  presence  of  at  least  one  mild  asymptomatic 
vertebral  fracture,  or  (in the  absence  of  a  vertebral fracture)  a  BMD  T-score  at the  femoral  neck  or 
lumbar spine of –2.5 or worse. The primary outcome parameter were new radiographically confirmed 
vertebral fractures. Among the secondary endpoints were non-vertebral fractures and BMD. 
Participants were healthy postmenopausal women with a mean age of 66.4 years; the mean number of 
years since the last menstrual period was approximately 19.5 years. The mean baseline T-scores at the 
lumbar spine and femoral neck were -2.4 and -1.7, respectively. About 56% of participants had at least 
1 prevalent fracture. 
Page 45 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a clinically  significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures  compared to 
placebo for both bazedoxifene doses tested. The rate of new vertebral fractures in women treated with 
bazedoxifene  20mg  per  day  over  3  years  was  2.34%,  compared  with  a  fracture  rate  of  4.07%  for 
women on placebo, corresponding to a relative risk reduction of 42%. The effects were independent of 
baseline status, apparent from 24 month of treatment onwards, statistically significant at 36 month of 
treatment  and  comparable  to  raloxifene  treatment.  After  36  months  of  treatment,  the  Kaplan-Meier 
rate estimates of cumulative fracture incidence for the bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg, the raloxifene 
60 mg  and  placebo  were  2.34%,  2.51%,  2.34%,  and  4.07%, respectively.  However,  in  the  subgroup 
with no vertebral fracture at baseline, the difference in fracture rates between bazedoxifene 20 mg and 
placebo  did  not  reach  statistical  significance  anymore.  The  treatment  effect  was  similar  between 
bazedoxifene 20 mg and raloxifene 60 mg. The incidence of non-vertebral osteoporotic fractures was 
not  statistically  significant  different  between  any  active  treatment  group  and  placebo.  Bazedoxifene 
20 mg  and  raloxifene  60 mg  significantly  increase  BMD  at  the  lumbar  spine  (1.14%  and  1.26%, 
respectively, at 6 months; 1.41% and 1.49%, respectively, at 3 years).  
Study  300-GL  examined  the  effect  of  bazedoxifene  10 mg,  20 mg,  and  40 mg  as  well  as  raloxifene 
60 mg and placebo on bone mineral density (BMD) over a period of up to 24 months. This study was 
designed  as  an  “osteoporosis  prevention”  and  the  data  obtained  is  considered  supportive  for  the 
indication  finally  granted.  As  in  Study  301-WW,  all  participants  received  Calcium  and  Vitamin  D 
supplements. 
In  this  trial,  1583  healthy  postmenopausal  women  > 45  years  of  age  with  at  least  one  osteoporosis-
related  risk  factor  were  analysed.  The  mean  number  of  years  since  the  last  menstrual  period  was 
10.9 years, the mean age was 57 years. The mean baseline T-scores at the lumbar spine ranged from 
-1.12 to -1.24.  Bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg prevented bone loss at both the lumbar spine and total 
hip. At month 24, lumbar spine and total hip BMD was higher in all groups treated with bazedoxifene 
compared with the placebo group. All bazedoxifene dose groups met the prespecified criteria for non-
inferiority to the raloxifene 60 mg group for lumbar spine and total hip BMD. 
Overall,  concluded  from  both  trials,  the  40  mg  bazedoxifene  dose  did  not  offer  a  more  favourable 
benefit/risk profile than the 20 mg dose. 
At  the  request  of  the  CHMP  the  fracture  risk  of  the  population  studied  was  investigated  to  be  in 
concordance with the 2006 osteoporosis guideline. The applicant provided an analysis of the absolute 
risk of fractures in the population studied, based on the extrapolation of rates from the placebo arm; 
upon  correction  of  confounding  factors  in  a  model  algorithm,  the  10-year  fracture  probability  for 
vertebral  fractures  was  estimated  at  11%.  This  suggest  that  the  study  overall  was  in  line  with  the 
recommended population of revision 2 of the CHMP guideline on osteoporosis. 
During the procedure, the CHMP had requested a GCP inspection of the main (pivotal) clinical trial,  
301-WW.  A number of critical deviations at one of the study sites investigated were identified, raising 
in particular concern with regard to underreporting of adverse events in the trial overall.  
During  the  procedure,  the  applicant  performed  an  adjudication/readjudication  process  of  potential 
cerebrovascular  event  cases  for  both  main  studies  and  provided  evaluations  of  the  fracture  data,  as 
well as SAE data, with and without inclusion of data from the large study site.  
The results did not indicate changes in the efficacy in fracture reduction or in the AE profile when data 
from  this  site  were  excluded  from  the  analysis.  Moreover,  the  results  were  consistent  with  overall 
analyses of the entire population. Reassuring was the fact, that the trial was both placebo and active 
comparator-controlled,  suggesting  that  critical  findings  identified  were  independent  from  treatment 
strata.  Overall,  it  was  therefore  concluded  by  the  CHMP  that  the  findings  did  not  impact  on  the 
reliability or interpretation of the data, and therefore did not alter the otherwise positive benefit-risk 
assessment.  
Safety 
The safety evaluation is mainly based on results from the 2 large phase 3 trials, the scale (data from 
9075 women of the phase 3 studies) and length (2 and 3 years) of which were considered adequate. 
Moreover,  the  inclusion  of  raloxifene  as  a  comparator  allowed  a  comparison  with  raloxifene’s 
extensive existing safety information.  
Page 46 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  bazedoxifene  20  and  40 mg  doses  were  well  tolerated  in  postmenopausal  women  and  the 
adverse event profile of bazedoxifene was consistent with that of raloxifene reported in these studies 
as well as in earlier clinical trials. 
The most frequent drug-related adverse reactions were hot flushes and muscle spasms (including leg 
cramps). 
Safety results with regard to the cardiovascular system did not raise a concern. For the cerebrovascular 
events  the  overall  incidence  of  ischemic  and  hemorrhagic  cerebrovascular  AE  did  not  show  a 
statistically significant difference between treatment groups. Potential cerebrovascular event cases had 
been  adjudicated/readjudicated,  and  the  outcome  was  consistent  with  the  initial  analysis.  Regarding 
breast disorders bazedoxifene showed a slightly favorable safety profile compared to both raloxifene 
and  placebo.  There  were  no  relevant  differences  between  treatment  groups  regarding  reproductive 
disorder AE, in particular with regard to the endometrium. Bone biopsies were performed in a subset 
of 121 patients of study 301-WW, and did not show relevant histological differences between groups, 
in particular with regard to bone structure and mineralisation. There were no obvious differences in the 
incidence and causes of death between the treatment groups.  
There was, however, an increased incidence of serious adverse events for deep vein thrombosis in the 
active  treatment  groups.  The  incidence  of  DVT  was  similar  between  the  raloxifene 60 mg  and 
bazedoxifene treatment groups. In study 301-WW in 7,492 valuable subjects, the bazedoxifene-treated 
women  had  an  increased  risk  of  venous  thromboembolism  (deep  vein  thrombosis,  pulmonary 
embolism  and  retinal  vein  thrombosis).  The  rate  per  1,000 women-years  through  the  3-year  study 
period was 3.23 in the bazedoxifene 20 mg group and 1.72 in placebo. The relative risk was therefore 
1.9; the relative risk decreased over the three years studied (year 1=3.0, year 2=2.5, year 3=0.3). To 
address  this  safety  concern  with  bazedoxifene,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  post-
marketing safety study (see also RMP). 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management 
plan, the CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed 
these. 
•  User consultation 
Overall the user consultation demonstrated that study participants were able to identify and 
comprehend key safety messages. The results were considered supportive of the proposed PIL and the 
test conforming to EMEA guidelines. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A  significant reduction in the incidence of  new  vertebral  fractures  was  observed  after  36  months  of 
treatment for bazedoxifene 20 mg and 40 mg treatment groups. The rate of new vertebral fractures in 
women  treated  with  bazedoxifene  20mg  per  day  over  3  years  was 2.34%,  compared  with a  fracture 
rate of 4.07% for women on placebo, corresponding to a relative risk reduction of 42%. This reduction 
was  comparable  to  the  risk  reduction  seen  with  raloxifene.  However,  statistical  significance  of  this 
effect  in  subgroup  analysis  was  only  present  in  higher  risk  subjects;  in  subjects  treated  with 
bazedoxifene,  the  incidence  of  fractures  was  related  to  the  baseline  fracture  risk:  the  higher  the 
fracture risk, the greater the benefit with bazedoxifene treatment.  
Regarding  non-vertebral  fractures  (secondary  endpoint)  no  effect  of  bazedoxifene  or  raloxifene  was 
demonstrated.  There  was  a  post-hoc  subgroup  analysis  in  high  risk  individuals  (T-score  ≤  -3  or  the 
presence of fractures) indicating an effect with 20 mg at month 12 and sustained up to month 36, but 
not with 40 mg bazedoxifene.  
Therefore,  the  efficacy  data  available  support  the  assumption  that  efficacy  of  bazedoxifene  in  the 
treatment  indication  has  sufficiently  been  established  for  vertebral  fractures,  while  no  effect  of 
bazedoxifene relative to placebo on the incidence of non-vertebral fractures has been established in the 
overall study population.  
With regard to secondary outcome parameters, bazedoxifene relative to placebo significantly increased 
BMD  at  the  lumbar  spine,  total  hip,  femoral  neck,  and  femoral  trochanter.  However,  although 
Page 47 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment effect was demonstrated on BMD in osteoporotic patients, the effect was significantly and 
consistently lower compared to raloxifene. Significant decreases in levels of bone markers indicating a 
reduction  in  bone  turnover  were  demonstrated  with  all  active  treatments  at  all  time  points  in  both 
phase 3 studies.  
The  safety  profile  seen  in  the  clinical  trials  with  bazedoxifene  was  mainly  in  line  with  the  known 
safety  profile  of  drugs  in  the  SERM  class.  This  comparison  was  facilitated  by  inclusion  of  both 
placebo and the active comparator raloxifene in the clinical trials. AE of special interest were venous 
thromboembolic  events,  cardiovascular  events,  cerebrovascular  AE,  vasodilatation,  reproductive 
disorders including breast disorders, and leg cramps.  
Bazedoxifene  had  a  neutral  endometrial  profile,  with  endometrial  effects  similar  to  placebo.  No 
increased incidence of endometrial neoplasm (polyps), hyperplasia, or carcinoma was observed in the 
bazedoxifene  treatment  groups  compared  with  placebo.  The  overall  incidence  of  breast  cancer  was 
low; bazedoxifene treatment groups had a numerically lower incidence of breast cancer compared to 
placebo. Analysis of bone biopsies after treatment revealed formation of normal lamellar bone in all 
treated subjects.  
There was, in study 301-WW, an increased risk of venous thromboembolism, with a relative risk of 
1.9 compared with placebo. This is a known class effect of SERMs. The incidence of VTE appeared to 
be somewhat higher in the bazedoxifene treatment groups than in the raloxifene treatment group. This 
overall concern of the CHMP with regard to VTEs will be followed up  by a post-authorization safety 
study of venous thromboembolic events.   
The  overall  incidence  of  ischemic  and  hemorrhagic  cerebrovascular  AE  did  not  show  a  statistically 
significant  difference  between  treatment  groups,  but  the  AE  cerebral  ischemia  and  cerebrovascular 
accident  are  reported  numerically  more  often  in  the  bazedoxifene  and  in  the  placebo  than  in  the 
raloxifene  groups.  Potential  cerebrovascular  event  cases  have  been  adjudicated/re-adjudicated.  The 
results were overall consistent with the non-adjudicated cerebrovascular safety analysis as reported by 
study  investigators  and  in  agreement  with  the  safety  assessment  based  on  the  initial  adjudication  of 
cerebrovascular events.  
Overall,  the  data  provided  by  the  applicant  clearly  demonstrated  a  significant  reduction  in  the 
incidence  of  new  vertebral  fractures  in  osteoporotic  women  treated  with  bazedoxifene  compared  to 
placebo; the effect was comparable to that seen with raloxifene. This was accompanied by significant 
effects on BMD and biochemical markers of bone turnover. The safety data provided by the applicant 
indicated no major differences between bazedoxifene and raloxifene. The known AE are adequately 
addressed in the provided RMP. Therefore bazedoxifene seems to have a favourable safety profile in 
the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.  
Due  to  the  fact  that  the  revised  2006  guideline  no  longer  recognizes  the  prevention  indication  as  a 
separate  indication,  an  osteoporosis  prevention  indication  of  bazedoxifene  could  not  be  granted.  In 
conclusion  the  benefit-risk  ratio  was  considered  positive  by  the  CHMP  for  the  treatment  of 
postmenopausal  osteoporosis  in  women  at  increased  risk  of  fracture  regarding  vertebral  fractures; 
efficacy on hip fractures has not been established. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
the  use  of  routine 
opinion 
pharmacovigilance  are needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns. No additional risk 
minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product information. 
that:  Additional  pharmacovigilance  activities 
in  addition 
to 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  CONBRIZA  in  the  following  indication:  “CONBRIZA  is 
indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in women at increased risk of fracture. A 
significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  vertebral  fractures  has  been  demonstrated;  efficacy  on  hip 
Page 48 of 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
fractures  has  not  been  established.”  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Page 49 of 49 
 
 
 
